DRN-3402682
The complaint
Mr V complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited provided misleading information about an 
investment opportunity it promoted on its crowdfunding platform. He says he participated in 
the crowdfund based on the misleading information and has now suffered a financial loss.
  
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business.
Mr V made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in late 2017. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
Having grown from 2 sites to 4 since their last round on Crowdcube, [Company A] is
revolutionising thetakeout industry through its takeaway only locations with rapid
delivery and custom technology. Now raising funds for further expansion.
Mr V invested £7,500 in Company A during this fundraising round and as Company A
substantially surpassed its initial £500,000 target, the round successfully closed in January
2018 and he was allocated shares.
Company A contacted Mr V in 2018 and 2019 explaining that it had decided to pivot its
business model away from branded high street stores to an online delivery model. But in 
May 2020, Company A entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up 
resolution being passed by its members.
In May 2021, Mr V raised concerns with Crowdcube and requested he was compensated for 
losses he had suffered.
 
As Crowdcube wasnt able to resolve the complaint, in July 2021, Mr V contacted this 
service to refer his complaint about his investment. 
Crowdcube informed our service it didnt think it had done anything wrong when promoting 
the investment opportunity on its platform. In summary it said:
- It conducted adequate due diligence when verifying the pitch and presenting the 
information. And whilst it endeavours to ensure information presented on a pitch is 
accurate, this is company led and therefore cannot guarantee the validity of all 
statements contained in a pitch. 
- Mr V says he invested on the basis that Company A would be opening further stores 
but at no point did Crowdcube hold this information to be true. 
- Also Crowdcube isnt accountable for decisions made later by a company, of which it 
has no control over.
One of our investigations completed an investigation. She issued an assessment not 
upholding Mr Vs complaint. In summary she said:
- Crowdcube needed to ensure the pitch was clear, fair and not misleading. This 
included carrying out a basic plausibility check on Company As expansion plans.
- Crowdcube didnt obtain sufficient documentary evidence to substantiate how likely 
Company As plans were to go ahead.
- As Crowdcube were aware Company As plans for using the funds were at an early 
stage and this ought to have been disclosed in the pitch. But she didnt think it would 
have changed Mr Vs decision to invest had Crowdcube disclosed that Company As 
expansion plans were at an early stage. This was largely because she didnt think the 
evidence supported that the opening of new stores was critical to Mr Vs decision to 
invest. 
- She noted that Mr V didn't make any enquiries with Company A or Crowdcube on the 
progress with opening new sites  including after Company A sent updates which 
explained it wasnt opening the sites as planned and that it was moving to a dark 
kitchen model.  She said had Mr Vs decision to invest in Company A been based on 
the opening of physical locations, then she wouldve expected Mr V to have raised 
concerns when receiving these updates.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In summary he said:
- His entire investment case was built on the opening on physical locations. He 
completed a cash flow model and stress test before investing and this was based on 
opening additional locations. 
- He strongly disagrees that Crowdcubes failings in the promotion of the loan wouldnt 
have impacted his decision to invest. Before investing he went to efforts to building 
his own business case, valuation of the company and stress analysis. This was the 
corner stone of his investment decision. His behaviour after the investment - whether 
or not he protested after the investment, cant have influenced his decision to invest 
in the first place. And as such it shouldnt contribute to a conclusion he would have 
invested anyway.
- He didnt participate in any further capital raises from Company A
As Mr V didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
- PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
- PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
- COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
- COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other
things):
- The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr V had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at thetime.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform performs on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
- fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, clear 
and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr V aware 
of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome 
of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
investing in Company A.
Essentially Mr V complains that he was misled about how the funds raised through the 
crowdfund would be sued by Company A  based on what he saw in the promotion provided 
by Crowdcube. Ive reviewed the original promotion and note there is limited information on 
exactly what the funds would be used for. There is a short section that talks about how 
Company A had doubled its number of sites from two to four and it was looking for further 
expansion but no more detail than that Crowdcube were promoting an investment into a non-
readily available security that was high risk in nature. So, this means how the funds were 
intended to be used by Company A was essential information the prospective investors, like 
Mr V, would need to enable them to make a reasoned decision to invest or not.
Crowdcube has provided notification to show the due diligence it carried out before 
promoting the investment opportunity. A key element of this was how it satisfied itself of the 
plausibility that Company A would use funds for further expansion by opening new sites. 
Crowdcube says it discussed this with Company A, and was told by Company A that it had a 
number of locations in mind but plans were at an early stage, so there was limited 
documentary evidence available. Crowdcube said it was satisfied the plans were genuine. 
To support this, Crowdcube has provided notes from its call records with Company A  
including those from a call in November 2017, shortly before promoting the investments. 
This includes the following note from this call:
4 units currently  several more in the pipeline  what does that mean?
This is evidence to support that Crowdcube did perform due diligence  including that related 
to Company As plans to open new sites. But what is missing is Company As response to 
the above question, so it is unclear what further enquiries or indeed whether Company A 
responded at all. In its defence of the complaint, Crowdcube said it didnt promote the 
opening of specific sites at any point and rather, promoted Company A had expanded from 
two sites to four and intended to expand further. But Im not persuaded by Crowdcubes 
arguments. It was obliged to ensure the promotion was fair, clear and not misleading. But its 
not clear what further expansion means from the promotion. I think it is reasonable to 
conclude from the following extracts, having grown from two sites to four, and now raising
funds for further expansion that Company A was looking to open up new sites with the 
funding. This is supported by the fact there is evidence that Crowdcube asked Company A questions about opening new sites.  All of this leads me to the conclusion that Crowdcube 
didnt meet its obligations.
In my view Crowdcube should have completed a basic plausibility check on the statement of 
future expansion as it is relevant to the future success of Company A. I accept there may be 
difficulty in testing the plausibility of whether Company A would do what it says it intends to 
do in the promotion. I also understand that Crowdcube tested the plausibility of the 
statement of further expansion by combining Q&A with Company A with evidence of its track 
record of opening new sites. But form the information Ive seen, its apparent Crowdcube 
knew Company As plans for using the funds were at an early stage and were not 
substantiated with sufficient documentary evidence for it to conclude how plausible these 
plans were. I think this something Mr V should have been made aware of  but I dont think 
the available evidence supports that Crowdcube did this. So this is another reason why I 
dont think Crowdcube met its obligations under COBS 4.2.1R (1)  the fair, clear and not 
misleading rule.
I also dont think it can be argued that Crowdcube met its obligations under Principle 6 (PRIN 
2.1.1R (6))  the clients best interest rule. Crowdcube needed to safeguard investors, like 
Mr V, interests. To do this I think it should have asked what Company A meant by further 
expansion and checked whether this was plausible. For example, Crowdcube could have 
performed a plausibility check by obtaining lease documentation (like it did for the two 
previous stores) to establish if it intended to open at new sites. Or it could have asked for 
evidence of agreements
in principle or anything to demonstrate Company A intended to open new stores. I havent 
seen that it did this, so it follows that I find it didnt act in Mr Vs best interest by failing to. 
Whilst I think there was a failing in Crowdcubes due diligence, in order to uphold the
complaint Id need to be satisfied that Mr V wouldnt have invested had Crowdcube made
him aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent
substantiated with documentary evidence. Ive thought very carefully about this, but on
balance, Im persuaded he would have still invested despite Crowdcubes failing. I know this
will be disappointing for Mr V, but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.
Mr V says his decision to invest was based on an understanding that Company A would be 
opening new physical locations. He says he completed his own analysis of Company A and 
coming up with his own valuation and a stress test. He says had Crowdcube been clear 
about the expansion, he would have added probability weightings to the physical openings 
and arrived at a much lower valuation, which would have resulted in not pursuing this 
investment. 
When making his complaint, I have to consider that Mr V has the benefit of hindsight, 
knowing Company A didnt open new stores, and ultimately the expansion failing and it being 
liquidated. So, what I need to consider, is whether Mr Vs decision to invest would have been 
different but for the failings Ive identified. To be clear, what I have to decide isnt whether Mr 
V wouldve invested had he been made aware that Company A was going to pivot its plans 
away from opening new stores, this is because Crowdcube wasnt aware of Company A 
having any intentions to change plans at the time of promoting the investment. Rather its to 
decide whether Mr V wouldve still invested had he been told that Company As plans to 
open new stores were at an early stage and that Crowdcube hadnt seen any documentary 
evidence to substantiate the plans.
Im aware that Company A contacted all investors, including Mr V, in 2018 and 2019 to
explain it had decided to pivot its business model away from branded high street stores tomove towards an online delivery model. In my view, these updates would have alerted Mr V 
to a change in his understanding of the expansion plan  as per the comments hes made in 
his complaint about his reasons for investing. 
So, Ive looked to see if there is any evidence of Mr V raising concerns or making any 
inquiries following these updates. But I havent seen evidence that he did. If the opening of 
new stores was critical to Mr Vs decision to invest, then I would have expected to see some 
evidence to support this. Mr V says his behaviour after the investment cant have influenced 
his decision to invest in the first place. I appreciate his behaviour after the investment cant 
directly impact the decision he made in the past to invest. But if the opening of new stores 
was fundamental to his decision to invest, then I think it is reasonable to say a change in his 
understanding of this would have caused concern. So the fact I havent seen evidence of 
inquiries being made does have relevance to my overall finding on whether I think Mr V 
would have invested but for the errors I identified above. 
Aside from the initial statement about further expansion, the promotion provided positive 
statements about Company As achievements in the past and performance statistics as well 
as financial information. This included the following information regarding Company As 
revenue and sales growth:
Our revenue in 2016 was £1.23m with EBITDA of - £300k...We have seen sales
grow by 75% to October and are profitable at store level since October.
The pitch also spoke ambitiously about the potential market of the takeout industry and
Company As position in it. Indeed, Ive seen that Mr V undertook his own analysis and 
asked questions before deciding to invest. The questions Mr V asked Company A before 
investing dont show a specific interest in the plausibility of opening of new stores. His 
queries are more general in nature  such as financial projections and shareholder structure.  
All of this indicates there were various factors he was considering before deciding to invest  
rather than was only being based on new stores.
Ive reviewed the due diligence Mr V says he completed prior to investing. This is 
spreadsheet-based analysis that he has put together and includes various projections made 
on Company As financial strength. The information Mr V gathered to complete his 
calculations wasnt included in the pitch provided by Crowdcube. It appears Mr V was 
prepared to invest based on the information he collated from his own due diligence. There is 
limited information in the way of essential information contained within Company As pitch. 
This means any information Mr V gathered outside of the pitch wasnt approved or checked 
by an authorised person. Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), 
Crowdcube didnt need to ensure the information Mr V obtained outside of the pitch was 
clear, fair, and not misleading and it wasnt required to perform due diligence on it. 
I think it is worth reiterating the failing Ive identified is that Crowdcube didnt make Mr V 
aware that Company As expansion plans were at an early stage and werent substantiated 
with documentary evidence. I acknowledge that Mr V believes his analysis shows that 
opening new stores was critical to his decision to invest. But I find it more plausible that Mr V 
invested in Company A as he had confidence in the overall financial prospect of the 
business and wouldve done so even if he had been told the expansion plans were at an 
early stage. It follows that Im persuaded, if Mr V was told Company As plans were at an 
early stage, the figures he decided to trust weren't any less relevant to his decision to invest.
In conclusion, while Mr V says he wouldnt have invested and the information on expansion 
plans was decisive to his decision making, I dont think the balance of evidence supports 
this. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr V discussed the expansion of new stores with 
Crowdcube or Company A before investing  for example this wasnt part of the question he asked prior to investing.  And Mr V didnt raise any concerns at the time Company A 
provided updates to explain a change in expansion plans. So, taking into account all of the 
above, I havent found evidence to persuade me that clearer information about the 
expansion plans would have changed Mr Vs decision to invest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against Crowdcube Capital Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman