DRN-3013467
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged 
him for damage to the car he returned at the end of his finance agreement. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr M entered into an agreement which includes the following:
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
I have reviewed the independent inspectors report and also Mr Ms photographs and while 
the latter are not wholly clear I am satisfied that the damage assessed by the inspector was 
present. I recognise Mr M disagrees, but I find the photographic evidence persuasive. 
The guide setting out vehicle return standards explains that chipping which has penetrated 
the base coat and dents on swage lines are chargeable. I can see there is a dent on the rear 
quarter panel and there are clear scratches on the door. As such I cannot say that MBFS 
was wrong to levy a charge for this damage. 
As for MBFSs handling of the matter I can see that it was less than satisfactory. I dont 
consider the managers five attempts to call Mr M in a two-minute period was reasonable 
and I agree that compensation of £50 is merited. 
Putting things right
MBFS should compensate Mr M for the poor service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to the poor service and I direct 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to pay Mr M £50 compensation for trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman