DRN-3298556
The complaint
Ms W says that Ikano Bank AB (publ) unfairly dealt with her complaint about the 
kitchen shed been supplied with by a retailer that was financed by a fixed sum loan. 
Ms W is also unhappy that her account was subsequently passed to a third-party 
company to be managed
What happened
In or around March 2016, Ms W chose a kitchen from a retailer. She says that the retailer 
designed the kitchen, provided a kitchen plan, ordered the required parts and was to install 
it in her home. To pay for the kitchen and its installation, Ms W entered into a two-year 
interest free fixed sum loan for £5,920 with Ikano. Under the agreement, the first payment 
would commence when determined by Ikano. Ms W made two payments by direct debit in 
April and May 2016 amounting to £493.34.
Ms W says that when the retailers kitchen fitter visited her home to finalise the 
arrangements, they informed her that the cost of fitting the kitchen wasnt £900, as 
originally quoted, but would amount to a figure closer to £3,500. Ms W was unhappy at 
the increased cost and so cancelled the fitter and instead arranged for a third-party 
kitchen fitter to undertake the work.
Ms W says that the third-party fitter struggled to fit the kitchen as they werent able to 
follow the retailers plan, and that they also informed her that there were a number of parts 
that had been either over-ordered or werent required. Ms W says a number of items, 
amounting to around £600, were returned. She said that there were also items that, 
although unused, couldnt be returned because the fitter had opened the boxes or tried 
unsuccessfully to fit them. Ms W says that instead of the kitchen taking two days to fit it 
actually took around three weeks.
In April 2016, Ms W contacted Ikano and complained that the kitchen was defective and 
that extra unnecessary items had been included in the order. By this time Ikano had been 
charged by the retailer for the supply and fitting of the kitchen.
Ms W says that in May 2016, she was informed in a phone call with Ikano that the credit 
agreement had been cancelled and there would be nothing to pay. She says she didnt 
hear anything more from Ikano until January 2018, when she queried why Ikano was 
attempting to take a payment from her bank account. She also queried why her account 
with Ikano now had a different number.
Ikano says that, following the contact from Ms W in January 2018, it re-opened her 
complaint with the retailer. It says it sent a letter to Ms W confirming this.
Ikano says that the retailer confirmed that it had refunded the cost of installing the 
kitchen amounting to £2,315 and a further £643 for items that had been returned. The 
retailer said no further refund was due to Ms W.
Ikano says it wrote to Ms W in April 2018 setting out the following: the amount now 
outstanding on her account following the adjustments/refunds from the retailer; that the 
account number had changed because the original term of the agreement had expired 
while the dispute had been considered; that no letter had been sent confirming the fixed 
sum loan had been cancelled; that it would offer her £50 compensation for the delays in 
handling her complaint and asking for evidence to substantiate her claim that the kitchen 
had been defective.
Ms W sent a letter to Ikano expressing her disappointment at its response and said she 
disagreed with what it had said. Ikano says it sent a further letter to Ms W in June 2018, 
asking her to provide evidence that she was owed any further refunds. Ikano also says 
that it wrote in August 2018 advising that the payments, due under the agreement, would 
commence in September.
Due to no payments being made under Ms Ws account Ikano passed it on to a third-
party company for management in January 2019.
Ms W complained to Ikano about its handling of her complaint. Ikano accepted that it 
hadnt handled Ms Ws complaint as she could reasonably have expected and that it 
should have made more regular contact with her. It said the retailer had confirmed her 
order had been correct and that adjustments had been made to her finance agreement to 
reflect the items returned and the cancelling of the fitting of the kitchen.
Ikano said it had made the decision to pass Ms Ws account on for collection as she had 
said she wouldnt be making any payments and the account had been defaulted. Ikano 
said that it was prepared to request the account back and to manage it, although this 
would mean a new account number being applied. It also said it would be prepared to 
remove any adverse information recorded about this account on Ms Ws credit file. Ikano 
offered Ms W £200 compensation.
Ms W was unhappy at Ikanos response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that, although Ikano 
could be responsible for a claim if there had been a breach of contract between Ms W 
and the retailer under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, there wasnt enough 
evidence here to say that a breach had arisen. Our investigator also said that he 
couldnt reasonably say that Ikano had agreed to cancel the credit agreement in May 
2016. He said he thought Ikanos offer of compensation was fair.
Ms W disagreed with our investigators view. She says that Ikano should have kept a copy 
of the call she had with it in May 2016, when she was told the agreement was cancelled. 
She also says that Ikano hasnt provided any evidence about its dealings with the retailer, 
nor explained the delays in its contact with her. Ms W says that she had to pay a for 
second new kitchen to be installed in 2018, to replace the kitchen fitted in 2016. She says 
this shows how very unsatisfactory the first kitchen had been that it required replacing so 
quickly.
Ms W also says she cant understand how her account has been passed on to a third 
party without any evidence of a debt.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer 
has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a fixed sum loan, and 
they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider, which here is 
Ikano. A breach of contract might arise from either the goods being faulty or if the 
services, which here would be their design or installation, arent performed with reasonable care and skill.
My role was to decide whether Ikano had acted fairly and reasonably in its response to 
Ms Ws complaint about the kitchen and then consider its actions in passing the account 
on. Id seen that Ikano had accepted that it hadnt handled Ms Ws complaint to a 
standard she could have reasonably expected and had offered her compensation of £200 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in contacting her.
Id seen that in March 2016, Ms W had entered into a two-year interest free fixed sum loan 
for £5,920 with Ikano. I didnt think it was disputed that this agreement was for both the 
provision and installation of a kitchen. I appreciated that Ms W said she wasnt able to agree 
the amount Ikano said was now still owed but the original amount of the agreement was 
clearly set out in its paperwork. I also didnt think it was disputed that Ms Ws account for the 
kitchen had been credited back an amount for the installation costs nor that there was a 
further refund for returned items.
I hadnt seen a copy of the contract between Ms W and the retailer regarding the supply 
and fitting of the kitchen. So, I was not able to say how much the kitchen itself had cost 
nor how much had been charged for its installation, though Id seen the retailer had since 
refunded the amount of £2,315 which was recorded as being the cost of installation. This 
would mean the kitchen had cost around £3,605 before the refund of £643 for the 
unused kitchen parts meaning the actual fitted kitchen had cost £2,962 (not including the 
installation fee).
Ms W said she was unhappy with the retailers kitchen fitter increasing the installation 
price after shed placed her order and had decided to arrange a third party to fit the kitchen 
instead. Ms W said that it was this fitter who had struggled to fit the kitchen, had been 
unable to follow the plan that had been provided by the retailer and had found that items 
had been over or wrongly ordered. I understood some items were returned to the retailer 
as a refund of £643 had been made to the account. Ms W also said some things couldnt 
be sent back because they had been opened or used by the third-party fitter.
Id also seen there had been an issue about a refund being given to Ms W in vouchers by 
the retailer though I was unclear whether these vouchers were then part of the amount 
that had been refunded to Ms Ws kitchen account. Ms W said around £600 of items had 
been returned and this was reflected in the refund then applied to her account by the 
retailer.  
I thought on the evidence Id seen that it was fair for Ikano to consider that Ms Ws 
account had correctly received reimbursements by the retailer for the cancelled 
installation costs and unused items.
In regard to any potential breach of contract, while I appreciated there was some evidence 
items had been over ordered since the account received a refund from the retailer, I didnt 
think I could reasonably say, on the evidence provided, that there had been further 
breaches of the contract that werent resolved by the retailer. Thats because the use of 
the third-party kitchen installer hadnt been part of the contract between Ms W and the 
retailer. This meant there would have needed to be evidence that the difficulties this fitter 
faced had been due to either defective goods being supplied, or an unworkable kitchen 
plan being provided by the retailer. Ms W hadnt provided any reports or photos that would 
corroborate her view that the issues with the kitchen werent due to any actions of her 
chosen installer.
And Id seen that Ikano had asked Ms W to supply additional evidence in order for it to 
consider whether there had been a breach of contract which I thought was reasonable. Ms W would have needed to support her assertion that the retailer was responsible for 
addressing further issues with the kitchen that were beyond the refunding of the returned 
items and removing the installation cost. As this additional evidence doesnt appear to 
have been provided by Ms W, it appeared that Ikano hadnt been able to further 
investigate whether there had been a breach of contract.
Ms W said that the fact she has changed her kitchen in 2018, corroborated that the other 
kitchen hadnt been of satisfactory quality. But I was afraid I didnt agree that this was 
enough to reasonably say the first kitchen had either been faulty, or that there had been 
something wrong with the kitchen plan provided by the retailer. I couldnt reasonably 
exclude, without further evidence, that any problems with the kitchen hadnt been due to 
how it had been fitted by the third-party kitchen installer.
So, although Ikano didnt appear to have made a decision as to whether there had been 
a breach of contract between the retailer and Ms W, I didnt think it had acted unfairly in 
the circumstances. There wasnt enough evidence provided by Ms W to establish that the 
kitchen units had been defective and/or that reasonable care and skill hadnt been used 
when creating the kitchen plan.
Id seen the notes created by Ikano for this account. These showed that Ikano had been in 
contact with the retailer over Ms Ws complaint, and that it had taken some time for the 
retailer to respond. This did explain some of the delay in Ikano contacting Ms W though it 
would have been helpful if it had updated as to her why there was no movement on her 
complaint. When the retailer had replied it confirmed that refunds had been given and the 
amount outstanding on the account had been reduced.
Ms W said that Ikano had informed her via a phone call in May 2016 that the credit 
agreement had been cancelled. However, it appeared to be agreed that no letter to that 
effect had been sent to her, and there was no note of it being cancelled recorded on the 
account by Ikano. I also hadnt seen that the two payments that had been made by Ms W 
under the agreement had been refunded.
Ms W was very unhappy that a recording of this call could no longer be provided, due to 
the amount of time that had passed. She said Ikano shouldnt have destroyed it knowing 
there was an ongoing dispute about her account. But I didnt think Ikano had acted 
unreasonably here. It wasnt unusual for businesses to keep customer data, including 
copies of calls, for limited periods. And I wouldnt have expected it to retrieve this call 
and keep it separately even with a complaint. I also thought that as Ikano was, at that 
point, still looking at Ms Ws complaint, it was unlikely it would have made a decision to 
cancel the credit agreement. I thought it was more likely than not that Ms W had 
misunderstood what had been said during the call in May 2016.
Ms W had queried why there had been changes in her account number and said this was 
evidence that the agreement had been cancelled and then later reinstated. However, Id 
seen that Ikano had explained the change in number had been due to the agreement 
originally being for 24 months but due to the length of time it had been on hold while Ms 
Ws complaint was being looked into, this period had expired. It was therefore necessary 
for the account to be given a new number as it had to be re-processed. I thought this was 
a plausible explanation and I didnt agree this was evidence that Ikano had agreed to 
cancel the agreement with nothing to pay for Ms W.
It wasnt disputed that there had been long gaps in the contact between Ikano and Ms W. 
This had led to some confusion and frustration for Ms W. Id also seen that, following the 
retailer informing Ikano that Ms W wasnt due any further refunds, that Ikano closed her 
complaint in June 2017 as it said it wasnt able to make contact with her. Contact was only resumed because Ikano appeared to have requested a direct debit payment from Ms W in 
or around January 2018, and Ms W had disputed that she owed anything on the account. 
This led to her complaint being reopened with the retailer though the retailer confirmed all 
due refunds had been made.
There appeared to have been correspondence between Ikano and Ms W, though no 
further evidence had been provided by Ms W regarding a breach of contract. Ms W was, I 
thought, clear that she would not be making any payments on the account. Id seen a 
decision was made to pass the account on in January 2019. Ms W said Ikano shouldnt 
have been able to take this action as there had been no evidence there was a debt owed 
by her. However, although I appreciated Ms Ws strong feelings about the service shed 
received, from both the retailer and Ikano, I disagreed with her view that there was no 
evidence she had a liability under this credit agreement. Shed signed a fixed sum credit 
agreement in March 2016 and had made only two out of 24 direct debit payments due 
under the agreement. A kitchen had been delivered to her and there had been 
adjustments on that account by the retailer regarding the installation costs and items that 
had been returned. Id seen that there had been a balance of £2,468.66 left for Ms W to 
pay from the original credit agreement shed taken out.
Ms W said there wasnt evidence as to the actual cost of the kitchen, but I hadnt seen 
any evidence that the figures set out by Ikano were incorrect. Ms W said in her complaint 
that the kitchen cost around £2,500, and the final cost of the kitchen was shown on her 
account as being £2,962 though that amount appeared to include items that couldnt be 
returned but werent used by the third-party fitter. I was satisfied there was sufficient 
evidence that Ms W had a liability to pay this account.
Id seen that the third-party company, now managing this account, stated there was 
£2,568.66 outstanding and, although I was unclear how the extra £100 arose, I thought 
this figure was sufficiently close to the amount shown as outstanding by Ikano. And as Ms 
W hadnt made any payments since 2016 and had been clear she didnt accept any 
liability to make further payments, I didnt think Ikano had acted unfairly when passing this 
account on to a third-party for it to be managed.
Id also seen that Ikano had offered to have the account returned to it for it to be 
managed in-house. It had also offered to remove any adverse information recorded on 
Ms Ws credit file in regard to this account. I thought this was a fair offer by Ikano, and I 
would expect it to honour this offer should Ms W now decide to take it up.
Ikano had also offered Ms W £200 compensation for the level of service it had provided. 
I thought there had been failings by Ikano in the way it had handled Ms Ws complaint 
and the delays in keeping in touch with her had caused unnecessary confusion. But 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to reasonably say that the quality of the kitchen was 
unsatisfactory or that the retailer had provided a defective kitchen plan.
So, for the reasons given, I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Ws complaint. I thought 
Ikanos offer of £200 compensation, to have her account returned for management and to 
remove any adverse information from her credit file about this account was fair and I 
didnt intend to ask it to do more.
Ikano hasnt asked me to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision again but Ms W 
has disagreed. She says that when she complained to Ikano in April 2016 she had 
already raised a complaint with the retailer raising an allegation of fraud over the actions 
of the fitter recommended by them by over ordering parts and vastly increasing the costs 
of installation. Ms W says she was told the payment wouldnt be made by Ikano to the 
retailer due to her concerns.Ms W says that as she didnt feel the kitchen fitter was acting with integrity, she arranged 
for another third-party kitchen fitter to undertake the work installing the kitchen. 
Ms W says it was unfair that Ikano took no action about her complaint for so long and that 
she was entitled to consider her complaint had been closed. Ms W says Ikano has 
destroyed information about her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision and although I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Ms W, I havent changed my view.
Ive seen from Ikanos notes about Ms Ws account, that the retailer had been paid at the 
end of March 2016. It also appears from these notes that when Ms W contacted Ikano in 
April 2016 she said she was only paying for the kitchen and not the installation. And that in a 
following call in May 2016, Ms W was aware that the retailer had been paid as she was 
advised by Ikano that this was better in the circumstances because otherwise it would have 
to invoice her for the full amount of the loan. So, looking at this evidence I think its unlikely 
Ikano told Ms W that no payment would be made to the retailer following her complaint to it 
in April 2016.
It isnt disputed that Ms W was unhappy about the installation costs and that this had led her 
to choose to arrange her own kitchen fitter. It also isnt disputed that Ms W had raised a 
complaint with the retailer about her concerns regarding their recommended kitchen fitter 
and their actions. Ive seen that the cost of fitting the kitchen was refunded back to the 
account as were the returned items, so Ms W wasnt charged for these things.
However, while I appreciate there was some evidence that kitchen parts were over ordered I 
havent seen any evidence that either the retailer or Ikano agreed that there had been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of the design supply and installation costs 
of the kitchen. I still think it was fair for Ikano to have considered that the correct 
reimbursements had been made to Ms Ws account by the retailer.
Ms W says that due to the gap in the contact between herself and Ikano she was entitled to 
consider that her account had been closed with nothing to pay. While its not disagreed by 
Ikano that there were delays as set out above, I dont think I can reasonably say Ms W was 
either told or given a reasonable expectation that the balance of the loan had been cancelled 
by Ikano. Ive seen that it closed Ms Ws complaint in June 2017 because it was unable to 
make contact with her.
I agree that Ikano should have kept Ms W better informed as to what it was doing, and Ikano 
itself accepts it didnt provide her with the service she could reasonably have expected.  
Ikano has offered Ms W £200 compensation for the way it handled her account. It has also 
offered to have the account returned from the third-party company to manage it and to 
remove any adverse information about this account from Ms Ws credit file. This offer is still 
open to Ms W to accept.
Ive set out above why further evidence was required from Ms W in order to establish that 
the retailer had been responsible for more than the reimbursements of the installation costs 
and the returned items. Ms W has raised that Ikano has lost information regarding her 
complaint. But I havent seen any evidence, nor has Ms W said, that she provided photos or a report from her own kitchen fitter that set out why the kitchen plan provided by the retailer 
was defective or that the quality of the kitchen that was fitted wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Im still unable to reasonably say that any problems with the kitchen werent due to the 
kitchen fitter that Ms W used to install it.
So, although I appreciate Ms W strongly disagrees with me, Im not upholding her complaint. 
I dont agree that the evidence supports that she was either told or given the reasonable 
expectation that her account had been closed with nothing to pay. I also think that Ikano 
acted fairly when it considered her account had been given the correct reimbursements by 
the retailer in regard to the installations cost and returned items. It hadnt seen any evidence 
of any other breaches or misrepresentations in regard to the contract. Im satisfied that Ms W 
has a liability to pay the account she holds with Ikano for the supply of the kitchen.
Ms W hasnt asked me to look again at the figures Ive set out as to the cost of the kitchen 
and, having reviewed them, I still think that £2,568.66 is the correct outstanding amount 
currently being managed by the third party company.
Ikano accepts that its service to Ms W had let her down and caused her unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience due to the delays in keeping in touch. I still think its offer of 
compensation, managing the account and removal of any adverse information from her 
credit file is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not going to ask it to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman