DRN-2957326
The complaint
Ms K complains about her Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading account with Plus500UK 
Ltd. 
What happened
Ms K opened her account in February 2018 and traded until she closed it in September 
2018. She reopened the account in April 2020 and traded until October 2020 when she 
made her complaint and closed the account once more. It looks as though Ms K placed over 
1,500 trades throughout the two periods  while she had deposited over €43,000, 
unfortunately she went on to lose almost €30,000. 
In October 2020, Ms K wrote to Plus500 to ask for her money to be returned. In the course 
of making her complaint and explaining her concerns she said, in summary:
She had evidence to show Plus500 had allowed her to gamble.
Plus500 had offered bonuses which was against regulatory rules.
She felt the prices offered didnt correlate with underlying market prices.
Plus500 looked into Ms Ks concerns and issued their final response in November 2020. 
They didnt uphold the complaint and said, in summary:
They are a regulated firm and offer execution only trading. They dont offer gambling, 
instead the instruments offered are financial products where customers can benefit 
from the advantages of owning a stock, index, forex, commodity or option position 
without having to physically own the underlying.
Risk warnings had been provided within the user agreement and on the website.
They hadnt offered bonuses since August 2018, following regulatory change.
And that they hadnt received the evidence theyd asked for to understand some of 
the other concerns Ms K had mentioned.
Unhappy with this, Ms K asked for our help. And since bringing her complaint to our service, 
she also raised further concerns  these focussed on the fact that Plus500 allowed her to 
reopen her account without further consideration for appropriateness, as well as concerns 
about the identification documentation used to open her account and the failure to recheck 
this, or who she was, upon reopen.
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened. She asked Plus500 some 
questions about Ms Ks appropriateness for this sort of trading and looked into the history of 
the account. But having reviewed that, she didnt agree Plus500 had done anything wrong. 
She thought the account was appropriate from the outset and would have been upon 
reopening too. And she wasnt concerned about the identification documentation  she said 
Ms Ks original account was opened with reference to two surnames, that her statements 
contained both surnames and that the second name was perhaps a maiden name. So she 
didnt agree Plus500 ought to compensate Ms K for the money she lost.
Ms K didnt agree  she thought this might not be her account and said the other name 
wasnt her maiden name. She also asked whether Plus500 could reopen accounts without 
doing any sort of check on who might be behind the request. 
Our investigator shared the details Plus500 had on file for Ms K and explained that the 
identification provided had confirmed both surnames. Though she appreciated Ms K didnt 
associate with one of the names, our investigator didnt think Plus500 had done anything 
wrong as the account details they held matched the identification provided. 
Ms K shared her identity card and passport  neither of which mentioned the disputed name. 
But our investigator noted that her passport was dated July 2019, so wouldnt have been the 
identification used to open the account the year before. Despite this, Ms K thought Plus500 
must have allowed an account to be opened with fraudulent identification, or that she might 
have traded on an account that wasnt hers. So as things remained unresolved, the matter 
was passed to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some elements of Ms Ks complaint are rather broad. She thinks Plus500 have allowed her 
to gamble and that the prices they offered didnt correlate with the underlying market. But 
shes not pointed Plus500 or our service to examples of trades shed like us to review. 
Having looked at Ms Ks trading history, as mentioned above it looks as though Ms K made 
more than 1,500 trades on her account. Our service wouldnt look to review every trade 
Ms K made to establish the prices applied and it may not even be the case that we would be 
able to review underlying price data, given the time thats passed. For us to agree that 
Plus500 had indeed manipulated prices or encouraged her to gamble, I would need some 
evidence or theory to follow. But Ms K hasnt provided anything like this, so it follows that the 
allegations of price manipulation and around encouraging or allowing gambling have not 
been established. 
Though Ms K didnt narrow her concerns around pricing and gambling, throughout the 
course of the complaint her concerns about the bonuses, the account reopening and the 
identification were clear. Ive thought carefully about these points and will consider them 
below. 
the initial account opening
Firstly, Ive thought about the wider circumstances and how Ms K began her relationship with 
Plus500. As Plus500 are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the 
regulators handbook  the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. 
Plus500 werent required to assess the suitability of Ms Ks upcoming trading given they 
werent going to be giving her any advice  her account was opened on an execution only 
basis so it was for her to decide which trades to make. However, to trade as she did 
COBS 10 required Plus500 to assess her appropriateness for doing so. In other words, this 
required them to gather relevant information from Ms K in order to decide whether she had 
the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Ms K provided, she told Plus500 shed placed between 51 and 100 
CFD/leveraged trades within the last three years, with between 1:25 and 1:50 leverage. She 
also said shed traded shares, indices, options, commodities, forex and cryptocurrencies 
more than 100 times. She was expecting to trade daily and was asked three questions about 
her investment knowledge  these asked her to calculate leverage, what happens when the 
market gaps through a stop loss and who was responsible for maintaining margin. Ms K got 
all three questions right. Ms K also shared information about her financial situation and 
passed the assessment. Plus500 needed to check that Ms K had relevant knowledge or experience to understand the 
risks involved in this sort of trading. And given her answers to their questions, I am satisfied 
that the account opened in 2018 was properly assessed as appropriate for her. 
the account reopening 
Despite this, I appreciate Ms K is less concerned with the initial opening of her account and 
instead, more concerned with the reopening. But I dont think Plus500 needed to check her 
appropriateness again  the reopening was around 18 months later and given the 
assessment would consider relevant knowledge and experience, her trading history would 
have shown the account remained appropriate for her. 
Plus500 also told us that they checked before authorising the reopen request to ensure they 
had no concerns about Ms Ks personal or financial situation. They checked her closure 
request from 2018 and this didnt set out any specific issue or concern for why she wanted to 
stop trading  because of this, Im satisfied Plus500s decision to reopen Ms Ks account 
wasnt unreasonable.
the identification provided
Another of Ms Ks concerns is around the names used on her account and the supporting 
identification documents. Plus500 have shared what identification was used to open the 
account in February 2018. This is a photo of an identity card referring to what Ms K agrees 
to be her correct first name and surname  however the card also includes another surname 
which she says she doesnt recognise. The card expired in April 2020. Plus500 have told us 
this identification was uploaded by web client around the time the account was first opened 
 they say this means Ms K was logged into her account on their website.
Ms K has shared a copy of her current passport and identity card with us. But as our 
investigator pointed out, the passport issue date is July 2019 and therefore could not have 
been used to open the Plus500 account in February 2018. Ms Ks identity card doesnt have 
a start date, but the photograph used matches that of her new passport and they both have 
identical expiry dates. Given the identity card used to open the account expired in April 2020, 
it is possible Ms K got her new passport and new identity card at a similar time  likely to be 
after the account was first opened. 
Considering both the identity card Ms K has shared and the one Plus500 have on file, I can 
see that Ms Ks first names, dates of birth, places of birth and surnames match. The 
difference is that there are another two names within the surname sections which do not 
match. But I dont think this automatically means the trading account is not hers or that 
Plus500 have done something wrong. 
Ms K disputes Plus500s assumption that the other name might perhaps have been her 
maiden name or a family born name. It is not for me to speculate as to what this name might 
be or whether Ms K did once associate with it. The key thing is that her account was opened 
in names which matched the identification Plus500 were provided with. And this account was 
also opened using Ms Ks email address  the same one she uses with us now  and she 
claims for money she lost trading on that account, which had statements in the same names. 
So given everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Plus500 opened an account in names they were 
provided with and that the identification they were supplied with validated those names. So I 
dont share the same concerns Ms K does for the account ownership.
I also note that when Ms K approached Plus500 to reopen her account, the email address 
she provided as being linked to the account is the same one she uses to correspond with us. Ms K was also able to log into the account and trade, so taking everything into account I 
dont agree Pus500 had reason to be concerned about who was reopening this account. 
the bonuses offered
As Ms K highlights, in 2018 the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
introduced restrictions on the way these sorts of products were marketed, distributed and 
sold in order to increase protection for investors. The changes involved a number of new 
requirements but relevant here was the prevention of the use of incentives. Ms K feels that 
the rebates or bonuses she was given means Plus500 breached the guidelines.
Plus500 have shared a screenshot from their system to show the rebates given to Ms K. But 
these all predate the restrictions  these didnt come into force until August 2018 and Ms Ks 
last rebate was some months earlier, in April 2018. So I dont agree theres evidence to 
show Plus500 breached ESMA guidelines and incentivised Ms K to trade when they 
shouldnt have. 
in conclusion 
I empathise with Ms Ks situation as I can see shes lost a lot of money. But from everything 
Ive seen and for the reasons Ive explained above, as Ive not seen Plus500 did anything 
wrong I dont think her losses are something for which they ought fairly and reasonably to be 
held responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman