DRN-3211579
The complaint
The directors of C, a limited company, complain that G & C Insurance Services Limited  
trading as We'resure Insurance Services (Weresure) mis-sold their business interruption 
insurance because the policy didnt provide the level of cover needed.
What happened
Weresure acquired the business of another broker, which had previously arranged 
insurance for C  although that policy had expired some months earlier. C contacted 
Weresure to obtain a quote for a commercial insurance policy, to include business 
interruption cover, on the same details as the previous policy. C asked to amend the policy 
to include cover for a piece of equipment but otherwise asked for the same cover. The cover 
was to start from 1 October 2019 and the premium was paid. 
Weresure sent the policy documents to C on 4 October 2019 giving full details of the cover 
and sum insured. C didnt ask Weresure to make any changes to the cover set out in the 
documents. The policy was renewed again on the same terms in October 2020.
When C made a claim on its policy, the insurer said it was under-insured as it was only 
covered for £250,000 when it should have had cover for £500,000, as that was the level of 
Cs turnover. So the insurer only paid 50% of the claim. C then complained that the policy 
had been mis-sold and asked Weresure to pay the difference. 
Weresure didnt accept that the policy was mis-sold and when the complaint was brought to 
us, our investigator agreed. She said C had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to 
be covered, which meant the onus was on C to provide full and accurate information. She 
thought the under-insurance had arisen because of Cs failure to provide accurate 
information or to check the documents to make sure it had the right level of cover.
C disagrees. It has been assisted in the complaint by a loss assessor who provided a 
number of comments, including:
All material circumstances were declared  C clearly declared its annual turnover to 
be £500,000.
In declaring its turnover to be £500,000, C gave enough information for an insurer or 
broker to be on notice that it needed to make further enquiries.
Weresure had a duty of care to its customers, was given enough information to carry 
out the task it was entrusted with, and despite this failed to arrange a suitable policy.
The investigator considered these points but didnt change her view. She said Weresure 
was asked to provide a policy on the same terms as the previous insurance and had done 
that. Although the documents for that policy showed a turnover of £500,000 the sum insured 
had been £250,000. She also noted that Weresure had asked C some questions about this 
but didnt get an answer. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cs loss assessor says Weresure owed a duty of care to C and should have sold a suitable 
policy but failed to do so. If a broker recommends a policy, I agree it should assess the 
customers needs and take reasonable steps to ensure the policy it recommends is suitable 
for their needs. But I also need to consider what information was given and whether C also 
met its duty to provide accurate information and give a fair presentation of the risks it wanted 
to insure.
As this was a commercial contract, the directors of C had to disclose either
everything they knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the insurers 
judgment in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put the insurer on notice that it needed to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the directors of C 
should have taken reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider 
if there was anything they ought to disclose.
Weresure was asked to provide a policy on the same terms as the insurance that had been 
in place previously, and it did that. Although the statement of fact showed an annual turnover 
of £500,000 it also showed the previous insurance had provided cover for business 
interruption based on Gross Revenue/Income of £250,000. Weresure asked C some 
questions about its business, including the number of employees and annual turnover. C 
didnt reply to the request for information. So Weresure proceeded on the basis of arranging 
cover that matched the previous cover, which is what it had been asked to do.
Weresure sent the policy documents to C, said it had to provide a fair presentation of the 
risk; explained what that meant; and warned that not providing accurate information could 
lead to the policy being invalid or claims not being paid. C says it should have been clearly 
and expressly informed before starting the policy that it was only covered for half the 
turnover. The policy schedule did say that cover was for £250,000. The documents clearly 
set out what cover was provided and C was asked to check this
C didn't question the amount of cover in the previous policy or in the new policy which 
started on 1 October 2019. Nor did it question this when renewing the policy in 2020. I think 
its reasonable to expect the directors of C to be familiar with the companys finances, review 
the information provided on the insurance documents to check it would provide the level of 
cover they need, and question anything that wasnt clear or didnt look right. From the 
information Ive seen, C didnt engage with the process, reply to Weresures questions or 
raise any issues with the level of cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Peter WhiteleyOmbudsman