DRN-3079614
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She would like to reject the car and cancel the 
agreement.  
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs B acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase agreement with 
RCI. At the point of supply, the car was just over three years old and had a mileage of 
around 48,650.
Mrs B says that within a few days of acquiring the car she found that it had a number of 
faults. These faults included an issue with the steering wheel trim, the automatic wipers, the 
headlights, the drivers seatbelt, a noise from the engine and the media system kept cutting 
out.
Mrs B suffered a flat tyre shortly after collecting the car and called out roadside assistance to 
help her. They listened to the engine noise and she says advised her that it was likely there 
was an issue with the cars turbo. Mrs B took the car back to the dealership for various 
repairs to be undertaken and for the engine noise to be investigated. The car was with the 
dealership for two weeks. Mrs B told the dealership she would like to reject the car as it was 
less than 30 days since shed entered into the hire purchase agreement.
Mrs Bs request to reject the car was declined by dealership as it said she had agreed to 
repairs. It said that after running diagnostics, no issue with the turbo had been found and the 
other repairs were completed. The car was returned to Mrs B, but she remained unhappy 
about its condition. She said there was an issue with the cars acceleration, that the engine 
continued to make a noise and the car would roll back when stopped on a hill. Mrs B says 
the problems with the media system also remained. RCI suggested to her that she may wish 
to get a second opinion as to any possible faults with the car.
Mrs B took the car to another garage which was manufacturer approved for it to be 
investigated. In February 2021 further repairs were carried out to the door mirrors, wheel 
trim, auto light sensor, and drivers seatbelt. Software updates were run on the media 
system. However, no noise from the engine was heard nor was it found that the car rolled 
back. At the time of these repairs Mrs B had driven around 570 miles in the car.
Mrs B says she continued to experience issues with the car in particular engine noise, an 
issue with acceleration, problems with the media system and the car rolling back when 
stationary on hills. She took the car back to the manufacturers approved garage in March 
2021. On this occasion a new accelerator pedal was fitted together with a new aerial. No 
engine noise was detected nor did the car roll back.
Mrs B complained to RCI about the quality of the car and requested to now reject it. In March 
2021 RCI sent Mrs B its final response letter. It didnt uphold her complaint. RCI said that for 
the car to be rejected then fault at the point of supply must be proven. Here, although minor 
issues had arisen these had been repaired at no cost to Mrs B. It said there was no evidence 
of any major faults with the car and that rejection would be disproportionate. RCI said that as 
it was a used car, then replacement of parts may arise shortly after the point of supply.
However, RCI said that it did recognise there had been inconvenience and distress caused 
to Mrs B and offered her compensation of £250.
Mrs B disagreed with RCIs response and complained to this service. Following her 
complaint, in April 2021, the car developed a problem with the gearbox juddering and pulling 
away from junctions. Mrs B took the car back to the manufacturers approved garage. The 
garage found that the gearbox was performing poorly and undertook a software update to fix 
the problem. By this time Mrs B had driven around 1,300 miles in the car.
Mrs B said that the software update hadnt resolved the issue with the gearbox. She said she 
wanted to reject the car because it wasnt of satisfactory quality. Our investigator requested 
that RCI had the car independently inspected as it wasnt agreed as to what faults the car 
had. This inspection was arranged for July 2021.
The independent engineer was requested to investigate the following issues with the car: the 
roll back when on hills; problems with the radio; phone and sat nav functions; over revving 
and jolting when moving away from junctions; failing to start first time; missing pins to the 
undertray and auto wipers not working.
The independent engineer reported that they were able to start the car from cold with no 
warning lights displayed and undertook a 10-mile test drive. They said there was no 
evidence of roll back on the hills, no issues with the radio or sat nav were found and the 
undertray was securely fitted.
However, the independent engineer found that there was a coolant leak and that there were 
issues with the gearbox. They reported that when changing down gear the vehicle jolts 
aggressively into gear and when pulling away from junctions the vehicles rpms will increase 
before the vehicle rapidly engages gear and jolts forward.  They advised Mrs B to stop 
using the car, which she did.
The independent engineer said that although the car was faulty there wasnt evidence this 
was due to a failed repair. They also said in their opinion the issues with the car were due to 
wear and tear or were maintenance issues that had arisen after the point of supply. They 
concluded that RCI wasnt liable for the current condition of the car.
Our investigator, having considered all the evidence, recommended that Mrs Bs complaint 
should be upheld. He said that he didnt think the car would be considered durable looking at 
when issues with it had arisen. He noted that Mrs B had raised a problem with the way the 
car drove for several months and an issue with the gearbox had first been identified in April 
2021 which didnt appear to have been repaired. He also said that although Mrs B had been 
able to drive around a total of 3,370 miles since the agreements inception this didnt mean 
the fault with the gearbox hadnt been developing at the point of supply. He said there 
appeared to have been intermittent faults experienced by Mrs B.
Our investigator said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality and that it would be 
fair for Mrs B to now reject it, the agreement cancelled, and her deposit reimbursed. He also 
said that because the car didnt work as reasonably expected by Mrs B, then 25% of her 
monthly payments should be repaid up until July 2021 when the independent engineer had 
advised her to stop using it. After the inspection date, our investigator said it would be fair for 
all the monthly payments to be repaid. He also said that due to the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B by having to deal with the faulty car, £300 compensation 
would be fair and reasonable.Mrs B, although agreeing with our investigators view said she had sought to reject the car 
within 14 days of acquiring it and asked whether she should get all her monthly payments 
reimbursed.
RCI disagreed with our investigators view. It said although there was an issue with the 
gearbox this didnt necessarily mean that this was a manufacturing issue and could have 
many causes. The independent engineer had said this was a fault that had arisen over time 
and hadnt been present at the point of supply.
As the parties couldnt reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable,  I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulator's rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating 
to it. RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that
The quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, price, and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely 
that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicle's history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition 
and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car was just over three years old and had a mileage of around 49,950 so I think a 
reasonable person would expect that some of the parts would need maintenance and repair 
over time due to wear and tear. It wouldnt be expected to be fault free as a new car would. 
Ive seen that Mrs B raised issues with the car within a short period of acquiring it though I 
accept that some of the faults would be considered as minor cosmetic ones (for instance the 
steering wheel trim). However, she also raised issues as to how the car drove, in particular 
that it was over revving and had an issue with the accelerating. When the car was 
investigated in April 2021, a fault with the gearbox found. Mrs B says the gearbox was 
mentioned to her when the car was investigated earlier on, but I havent seen that a potential 
fault with this part was discovered prior to April.2021. It doesnt appear that the repair by way 
of a software update fixed the problem.
Ive seen that the independent engineer has recommended that further investigation into the 
transmission fault is required which would include stripping the part in workshop conditions. But they did conclude that the evidence didnt support a pre-existing defect due to the time 
that had passed and the 3,7000 miles which had been driven. However, I dont think the 
reasons they set out for reaching this opinion means that the fault couldnt have been 
developing at the point of sale nor does it address why the gearbox would have been 
considered durable by a reasonable person. 
Ive seen that Mrs B repeatedly raised issues with the car including it over revving and the 
way it drove. I think Mrs B has been consistent in her complaints about the car and that its 
likely that the issue with the gearbox was present before April 2021. I also think that when 
looking at the limited use Mrs B had of the car before the issue with the gearbox was 
identified  four months 1,300 miles driven) I think its more likely than not that this wasnt an 
issue of wear and tear but because there was a fault that was present at the point of supply. 
 I also dont think that a reasonable person would expect a car of three years with a mileage 
of around 48,600 would require repair to its gearbox after driving 1300 miles over a four-
month period. I think its fair to say that the gearbox wasnt durable as would reasonably be 
expected. I think its reasonable to have an expectation that that part would last many more 
miles than it did. I have no evidence that the fault with the gearbox was due to anything Mrs 
B was responsible for, such as style of driving. Im therefore not persuaded by the view 
expressed by the independent engineer.
I think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs B. Im also satisfied 
that there has been one attempt to repair this part which wasnt successful and therefore its 
fair for Mrs B to now reject the car and the agreement to be cancelled.
Mrs B has raised that she sought to reject the car within the first 30 days after accepting it. 
Her request was rejected due to the fact no major faults were uncovered at that time and she 
had agreed to the repairs. I dont think RCI acted unfairly in not accepting rejection of the car 
in January 2021. At that point, I accept the car appeared to be repaired and although I 
appreciate Mrs B says that the media system didnt function properly, I also think its fair I 
take into account that none of the investigations by the garages and the independent 
engineer have been able to replicate that particular fault as reported by Mrs B. I also think 
Mrs B had accepted the car being repaired by the dealership and had therefore lost her 
short-term right to reject. 
So, I dont think Mrs B should be reimbursed all her repayments and that in line with the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 she should pay towards the usage she was able to make of the 
car. However, I think its fair she receives part of those monthly payments back as its clear 
her use of the car was curtailed, and it didnt perform as she would have reasonably 
expected. I think its fair for Mrs B to receive 25% of her monthly payments made from the 
start of the agreement until the point the car was inspected by the independent engineer. I 
accept that after that inspection, Mrs B didnt use the car as per the advice she was given. 
This means that from around the end of July 2021 Mrs B should be reimbursed all of the 
payments she made.
I also think that Mrs B has suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by 
dealing with the faulty car. She has had to take it to a garage on multiple occasions, wasnt 
always provided with a courtesy car and when she was, it proved unsuitable due to a 
physical health issue. Looking at the impact on Mrs B, I think £300 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances.
As the agreement is to be cancelled then Mrs B should, as far as possible, be put back in the 
position she would have been in had she not entered into it. This means that if Mrs B faced 
any additional costs for cancelling the cars insurance and road tax (I understand the car is 
SORN) then these amounts should be reimbursed once Mrs B has provided proof.For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Putting things right
Im asking RCI to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove this credit account from her credit record.
Reimburse Mrs Bs deposit of £500 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mrs B 25% of all the monthly payments shed made under the agreement 
from the first payment until the date the car was independently inspected in July 
2021. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement is to be added.
Reimburse Mrs B with all monthly payments made after the point when the car was 
independently inspected in July 2021. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement is to be added.
Reimburse Mrs B any admin costs arising from cancelling the cars insurance and/or 
road tax once proof of these costs has been provided by Mrs B.
Pay Mrs B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
having to deal with the faulty car. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint as I am satisfied the car was 
not of satisfactory condition at the point of supply. Im asking RCI Financial Services Limited 
to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove this credit account from her credit record.
Reimburse Mrs Bs deposit of £500 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mrs B 25% of all the monthly payments shed made under the agreement 
from the first payment until the date the car was independently inspected in July 
2021. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement is to be added.
Reimburse Mrs B with all monthly payments made after the point when the car was 
independently inspected in July 2021. Interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement is to be added.Reimburse Mrs B any admin costs arising from cancelling the cars insurance and/or 
road tax once proof of these costs has been provided by Mrs B.
Pay Mrs B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
having to deal with the faulty car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman