DRN-2330311
The complaint
 Ms K complains about the way that Lloyds Bank Plc handled her request to transfer funds 
from her account to another bank.   
What happened
 On 27 March 2020, Ms K visited a Lloyds branch and requested that they transfer two 
amounts totalling over £1 million, to two separate bonds at another bank. The request was to 
transfer the money by CHAPS and was completed and submitted by branch staff. 
On 1 April 2020, the other bank said they had rejected the payment due to incorrect payee 
details and the amounts had been returned on 31 March 2020. However, Lloyds maintained 
to Ms K that the forms had been completed correctly and that they didnt have the returned 
funds. 
Ms K says that despite several calls, emails and branch visits over the month of April, Lloyds 
did not confirm to her until 29 April 2020 that they had receipt of the returned funds. They 
were paid back into her account on 1 May 2020.
Ms K then requested that Lloyds send the amount again by CHAPS, but this time to an 
account in her husbands name. Lloyds said that wouldnt be possible due to system issues, 
but offered for Ms K to send the amount by faster payment instead.
Between 4 May and 11 May, Ms K visited the Lloyds branch to make five faster payments, 
each totalling approximately £250,000, to her husbands account at another bank. Her 
husband attended on each occasion despite shielding at the time. Ms K says this was to 
provide support for her as she was very stressed by what had happened and to also identify 
himself. 
Ms K complained to Lloyds. She said that the errors made by Lloyds had caused her 
significant upset and inconvenience. Shed had to chase receipt of a considerable amount of 
money for almost a month and was continuously unable to get an answer as to when it 
would be returned. 
Lloyds agreed they made a mistake with the payee details when the CHAPS request was 
sent. They agreed to refund the interest that she had lost out on, which was approximately 
£8,200. They also offered £500 for the trouble and upset caused and £81 for the calls she 
had to make. 
Ms K remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into matters and thought that the offer made by Lloyds did not fully compensate Ms K for the 
trouble and upset suffered. He suggested that as well as the interest and phone call charges 
being refunded, Lloyds should pay her £1,000. Lloyds agreed to do this. However, Ms K 
maintained that wasnt enough and didnt truly recognise the impact these errors had on her. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have to tell Ms K that I think the outcome the investigator has reached is 
fair here. Ill explain why.
I am satisfied that when Ms K visited the Lloyds branch in March to transfer funds, the bank 
made an error with the CHAPS payment form. It has acknowledged that the payee details 
were incorrect as the receiving bank said. This initial error was compounded by Lloyds 
failure to locate the funds for a month, probably in part due to the initial details being input 
incorrectly. 
It was clearly a significant amount of money to Ms K. It had come from a property sale and 
her pension and she was intending to use it for an impending property purchase. Not being 
able to locate over £1 million pounds was clearly very worrying and distressing for Ms K.
The amount was actually returned on 31 March 2020. I can see by the number of telephone 
calls, emails and branch visits made, that not being able to locate the funds for a month had 
a serious impact on her. Lloyds didnt do enough to help or reassure Ms K. There were 
several calls and emails to them from both Ms K and the branch staff that werent returned. 
Adding to the stress and worry that Ms K was feeling at this time.  
When the returned funds were finally located and applied to Ms Ks account, she was then 
prohibited from using CHAPS to send the money (this time to her husbands account). This 
was apparently due to system issues with CHAPS payments at the time. 
It is completely understandable that Ms K would want to send such an amount by faster 
payment as CHAPS wasnt made available to her. However, doing so then meant that Ms K 
had to make five separate transfers and all in branch. This was during a national lockdown 
and with her husband, who at the time had been shielding at home. 
Putting things right
 I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms K and for what she will have been going though 
during this period, caused by Lloyds errors. I am glad to see that Lloyds have dealt fairly 
with the financial loss that Ms K suffered by refunding her the lost interest and call charges. 
However, compensation for the trouble and upset caused is also appropriate. The original 
offer of £500 isnt, in my view, sufficient recognition of this. However, I do think that a total of 
£1,000 compensation fairly reflects the impact this matter has had on Ms K.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Ms K a 
further £500 compensation (on top of the £500 compensation, the £8,286.38 of lost interest 
and the £81 call charges, that have already been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman