DRN-1664586
 
complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in 
this decision.
background
Mrs C took out a store card in 2003. At the same time she bought a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card if she wasnt able to work. 
Mrs C says that she wasnt told important information about the policy so that she could 
make an informed decision. 
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. AXA disagrees, so Mrs Cs 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im holding this complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
AXA had a responsibility to ensure Mrs C got all the information she needed to make her 
decision about buying the PPI. I cant be satisfied that AXA did this well enough. In particular 
I dont think AXA made the cost clear enough to Mrs C. The application form Mrs C 
completed makes no mention of how much the policy would cost or that the cost of the PPI 
would be added to the balance on the store card and would attract interest. 
The cost of the policy was relatively expensive compared to other PPI policies on the 
market, although it offered a higher benefit. Mrs C had good sick pay from her employer  
six months full sick pay and six months half sick pay. I think if shed understood the cost of 
the policy (including the hidden costs of interest on the premiums) shed have thought that 
the policy didnt offer her value for money, and I dont think shed have bought the policy.
AXA disputes this because it says it cant make an assessment of whether what Mrs C has 
told us about her sick pay is correct because Mrs C hasnt explained what her tenure in her 
role was. 
I dont think Mrs Cs tenure makes a difference. There is nothing to suggest that Mrs Cs sick 
pay is unusual in the sector she was working in, even if she had a short tenureI am satisfied that Mrs Cs sick pay was as she has stated, and that had AXA explained the 
cost of the policy to her she wouldnt have bought the policy. So I think Mrs C lost out as a 
result of what AXA did wrong.
 putting things right
AXA should do the following:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve 
owed AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation as Ive 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman