DRN-3771560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
their purchase of some solar panels.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr and Mrs M bought solar panels for their home in December 2015. The purchase was 
funded by a ten year loan from Shawbrook, and so that business is liable under the Act for 
the acts and omissions of the installer. Mr M says the installer misled them into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding within ten years, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator accepted that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs M and so upheld the complaint. Shawbrook did 
not respond, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, am not minded to uphold this complaint. 
I will explain why, but first I will deal with a couple of jurisdictional issues.
Jurisdiction
The loan agreement has only been signed by Mr M, so it does not appear that Mrs M was a 
party to it. It follows that she is not eligible to complain to our service. (But I can still take into 
account what she has told us about what happened.)
In July, Shawbrook told us that it was entitled to eight weeks to consider Mr Ms complaint, 
before our service would have power to investigate it. That was correct, but that time has 
now elapsed. I am therefore satisfied that I have power to consider Mr Ms complaint about 
the outcome of his section 75 claim against Shawbrook.
Misrepresentation
I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr M into buying the solar panels. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the panels sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of 
the panels next to each other, and the benefits were clearly not enough to cover the cost.
Before I describe that, I will briefly describe how Mr M paid for the panels, by way of 
background. The cash price was £10,557. Mr M paid a deposit of £2,644, apparently by 
cheque. The balance is £7,913. All of these figures appear in the quote.
My M has signed the quote on page 5. Directly above his signature is the figure £7,913, 
described as Final and full payment. I will use this figure for the purpose of comparing the 
cost and benefit, in case this is the figure Mr M had in mind when he described the salesman 
as telling him that the panels would pay for themselves. Opposite that on page 4, under the 
heading Income/Benefits, it gives the total estimated benefit as £582.71.
The loan interest does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr M could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the outstanding balance would clearly 
come to £791.30 a year over the ten year term of the loan. That is about £200 more than the 
total benefit figure for the first year. I think that was clear.
It does not seem likely to me that the salesman told Mr M that the panels would pay for 
themselves at the same time as asking him to sign a piece of paper that said they would not. 
So I am not persuaded that the installer misled him about the benefits and cost of the 
panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC did not accept my provisional decision. It re-iterated that the salesman had told 
Mr M things which contradicted the quote, and Mr M had trusted him. It pointed out that our 
service had recognised that this has happened in other cases and has upheld many other 
complaints for that reason. It said I had not considered whether Mr M had been shown the 
quote. It argued that it would make no sense for a consumer to buy panels unless it would 
save them money.
The CMC also reminded me that the law says that if the salesman did mislead Mr M, then it 
would not be a defence for either P or Shawbrook to say that Mr M could have discovered 
this simply by reading the quote in his own time to find out the true position.
My findings
I agree with the CMCs summary of the law. But my provisional findings were not made on 
the basis that Mr M should not have been taken in by what the salesman said. Rather, the 
significance of the quote is that I do not think it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that 
the salesman made oral representations which he knew were contradicted by the quote at a 
meeting in which the quote played a central part.
The other complaints which the CMC referred to, which we have upheld, were decided on 
different facts, based on different paperwork which was less clear. That led us to conclude 
that there was not enough evidence to contradict what those complainants had told us. Here, 
as I have set out before, the quote was clear enough, in my view, for me to conclude 
otherwise. As I said, that quote was signed by Mr M, so I am satisfied that it was shown to 
him at the point of sale.
So I remain of the opinion I set out in my provisional findings, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman