DRN-2375307
The complaint
Mrs C complains that BUPA Insurance Limited continued to charge full premiums for her 
private health insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C holds a private health insurance policy with BUPA. The policy renewed on 
1 November 2019 for a year. Mrs C got in touch with BUPA in early April 2020 as she was 
unhappy BUPA wasnt offering a discount while it wasnt able to offer a full service during the 
Covid-19 global pandemic.
BUPA acknowledged in its final response letter that resources from the private health sector 
had been diverted to support the NHS through the ongoing crisis. But it assured Mrs C that 
any profit BUPA made from the unprecedented situation would be given back to its 
customers in the form of a rebate or other appropriate means. BUPA explained it would 
commission an independent review once things were back to normal.
BUPA also explained it had made some changes to the way the policy worked, such as 
introducing a new cash benefit for patients receiving NHS treatment for Covid-19 as well as 
providing remote consultations. BUPA also asked Mrs C to get in touch if she was 
experiencing financial difficulties, so it could discuss how to support her.
Mrs C doesnt think what BUPA has done is enough in the circumstances.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained BUPA was offering an up to 
three-month suspension for customers in financial difficulty. This allowed members to keep 
the policy but suspend payments and the ability to claim during that time. She acknowledged 
that while BUPA wasnt able to provide full services, this was outside of BUPAs control. But 
she said BUPA had also enhanced other services that were available.
Our investigator also noted the independent review that BUPA was intending to commission, 
and the impact that would have on its customers. Overall, our investigator thought BUPA 
had acted fairly and reasonable in the unexpected circumstances.
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, she doesnt think its fair to 
say BUPA has enhanced its services when in fact its services were reduced, and that BUPA 
isnt offering discounts during the difficult and unprecedented times. As no agreement was 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Cs concern about having to pay the full premium for her policy during the 
unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic. Independent hospital 
resources were needed to support the NHS and this had an impact on the private services 
that they were able to offer. But I dont think this is something I can hold BUPA responsible 
for, as the circumstances were outside of its control. BUPA also enhanced some of its 
services while others werent available. 
I appreciate that Mrs C doesnt feel there was an enhancement and shes made 
representations about the meaning of the word. But Im satisfied BUPA took reasonable 
steps to acknowledge that Covid-19 was having an impact on its consumers, including 
Mrs C, and sought to offer appropriate additional benefits which acknowledged the 
unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic. 
BUPA explained to Mrs C that it would review the impact of the pandemic on all its 
customers, and what that would mean for its customers. I appreciate Mrs C was not happy 
with how long the review would take to complete, but Im satisfied that what BUPA has said 
about this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
BUPA has offered to suspend policies for customers in financial difficulty for up to three 
months. Mrs C isnt happy with this as this would mean she wouldnt be able to make claims 
during that time. But I think BUPA acted fairly by offering this option to consumers who were 
in financial hardship
While I appreciate theres been an impact on the services BUPAs been able to provide, Im 
satisfied Mrs C has benefitted from having cover in place in case she needed to make a 
claim for any eligible treatment. Shes also been able to continue her underwritten cover. 
This means there has been no break in cover, or a change in the underwriting terms.
Taking everything into account, I think what BUPA has done is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Finally, I understand BUPA has recently concluded its review and is in the process of 
contacting consumers with details of the outcome of the review. Its published more 
information about this which is available on its website. If Mrs C remains unhappy with the 
outcome of the review on her own policy, she can raise this as a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman