DRN-3473609
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) wont remove a default from her credit 
file.
What happened
Ms S had a credit account with another company, which Ill call N. The account was 
defaulted by N on 30 April 2021. 
Ms S was unhappy that the default was registered. So, she complained to N about this and 
about the customer service shed received. It didnt uphold her complaint and so she brought 
her concerns to our Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into her complaint about N and upheld her concerns about 
the service she received. But they said that the registration of the default was fair and so 
they didnt think N should remove it. Ms S accepted these findings and the complaint was 
closed in July 2021. 
In May 2021 N sold the outstanding debt on the account to Lowell.
In September 2021 Ms S got back in touch with our Service as she wanted Lowell to remove 
the default and it was refusing to do so. Ms S actually settled the outstanding debt with 
Lowell on 13 October 2021. A complaint was then raised with Lowell on Ms Ss behalf.
Lowell responded on 1 March 2022 but didnt uphold the complaint. It confirmed it had 
purchased the debt from N and was obliged to take over the reporting of the default based 
on the information it was given by N. It confirmed the debt was now showing as satisfied 
since Ms S made the final payment, and said the default was correctly recorded.
Ms S told our Service the default was causing her problems securing lending and she had 
never missed nor does she currently owe any payments. Ms S said that due to the customer 
service issues shed had with N back in 2020, she didnt know there was outstanding debt to 
pay. 
Another Investigator looked into the complaint about Lowell. They said they couldnt ask 
Lowell to remove the default as it had bought the debt from N and was fairly reporting based 
on the information it had been given. And our Service had found N applied the default fairly.
Ms S remained unhappy with our Investigators response to her complaint about Lowell, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. Ms S stressed that she either didnt understand or hadnt 
read the Investigators findings back in 2020 correctly. And that she didnt think the default 
registered by N was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that I was sorry to read about the difficulties Ms S has been 
experiencing of late. I dont doubt this has been an incredibly stressful time for her and Id 
like to wish her the best moving forward. 
In this decision I will only be considering the actions of Lowell. Whilst I appreciate Ms S 
remains unhappy with N, concerns about N were raised separately and have already been 
considered by our Service, so these are not something I can comment on here. 
As an aside, Im aware Lowell has purchased another of Ms Ss debts from a different 
company, B, and that Ms S is also unhappy about the registration of a default for this 
account too. However, I understand Lowell resolved this issue to Ms Ss satisfaction and that 
she now only has concerns with the company B. So, I dont intend to comment on Lowells 
actions in respect of this other account any further - Ms S has told us this isnt the crux of the 
complaint she now wishes to raise about Lowell.
Ms S is unhappy Lowell wont remove the default connected with her old account with N 
from her credit file. Shes told us this default is having a substantial impact on her life and 
ability to secure credit.
I think it would be helpful to start by explaining that once an account is defaulted, it remains 
so regardless of whether payments are later made towards the debt. A default will remain 
visible on someones credit file for six years. Lenders and financial business that own debts 
have clear reporting requirements and must accurately record how a customer has managed 
their account on their credit file. This is the way the credit reporting system works. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms S thinks the registration of the default by N was unfair, this is not 
something I can consider as part of this complaint. 
Having then taken over the debt, Lowells responsibility is to provide accurate information to 
credit refence agencies. Here Im satisfied that Lowell is reporting the account as defaulted 
based on the information it was given by N. So, Im not persuaded this reporting is 
inaccurate or unfair.
Once a defaulted debt is settled it can be shown as such by the credit reference agencies. 
So, Lowell also has a responsibility to notify the credit reference agencies once the debt was 
paid  something Lowells has confirmed it has done.
 
So, I dont think Lowell has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman