DRN-1422175
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a PPI policy when they took out a Halifax mortgage in 1999. The policy 
was sold over the phone and covered their mortgage repayments for up to twenty-four 
months if Mr B was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr and Mrs B say that they werent aware they had the PPI policy and that it was never 
explained to them that this was an option.
Theres no recording of the call when the PPI was sold available now. Thats understandable 
given how long ago the sale took place. But BoS has provided a copy of the mortgage 
application which Mr and Mrs B completed and signed to obtain their mortgage. Theres a 
section on the application form headed: Mortgage Repayments Insurance. And I can see 
that this section has been completed in handwriting, providing some personal details for Mr 
B - the person seeking this cover. There are also Yes and No boxes provided so that 
customers can say whether or not they want the monthly PPI premiums to be added to their 
mortgage repayments. And I can see that the Yes box has been ticked. 
BoS has also provided a copy of the Mortgage Repayment Insurance Application for Mr B. 
This contains answers to question concerning Mr Bs eligibility for the cover and some 
personal details about medical history. But I dont think I can place complete reliance on this 
document as showing Mr and Mrs B consented to the PPI policy, because it hasnt been 
signed. It appears to have been completed by BoS during a call to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
broker. Nevertheless, taken together with the mortgage application, and what we know of 
BoSs normal sales practices at this time, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs B were aware that the PPI policy was optional and that they actively decided to 
take it out. But as this all happened so long ago, I can quite understand why they may not be 
able to recall this now. Such matters do tend to fade with time.Both BoS and Mr and Mrs B say this was an advised sale, so Ive taken this to be the case. 
This means that BoS had to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. I dont know all the 
steps it took to do this. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I cant see 
any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr B appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
limitations and exclusions.
 
Mr and Mrs B say the cover provided by the policy wasnt necessary given their other 
means of paying their mortgage at the time of the sale. But this policy would have 
paid out for up to twenty-four months if Mr B hadnt been able to work, in addition to 
these other means.  And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one where 
ones home is at risk if the repayments cant be made.  So I still think that Mr and Mrs 
B would have valued the extra security the policy gave them if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable. And as the policys premiums were 
paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their needs. 
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs B enough information for them to decide whether or not 
to take out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information they received could have 
been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed their minds about 
buying it. I think theyd still have thought the policy gave them useful protection at an 
affordable price.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr and Mrs B have lost out by anything that BoS 
may have done wrong when it sold them this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman