DRN-3146048
The complaint
Mr H complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and he said the high repayments he had to make on the loan added to his 
financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr H was given a single loan by Likely Loans as follows: 
Date 
loan 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
Amount 
repayableLoan 
status
14/10/2017 £3000.00 60 months £132.38 £7942.80PAID 
Mr H has complained that he should not have been given the loan based on his credit 
history, financial situation and defaults at the time. He told us that he was unable to keep up 
with other vital bills whilst trying to juggle this and other debt taken out as a result of the high 
repayment amounts.
Mr H ran into payment problems on the loan and Likely Loans sold his debt on to a third-
party debt collection agent. Mr H told us that the loan was fully settled at the start of this 
year. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint as he 
didnt think Likely Loans had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. He mainly said that he finds it hard to 
accept our adjudicators view when a smaller loan he took out only two months after this one 
was deemed unaffordable. He told us that he was unable to meet the demand Likely Loans 
put on him which put him into deeper debt he is only now recovering from and that he was 
also not keeping up with utility bills ahead of the Likely Loan, which wasnt considered. Mr H 
also has concerns about how thoroughly his complaint has been investigated and 
considered. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I think there are several key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
 Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Likely Loans was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr H 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to 
carry out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or affordability check.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. These 
checks could consider a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Hs income and expenditure. There was no set list of checks Likely Loans 
had to do and I've noted what Mr H says about this. But its the Financial Conduct Authority 
who is the regulator responsible for making the rules and regulations that lenders must 
follow. So what Mr H says about this doesnt affect the outcome of his complaint. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
 the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr H.
Likely Loans did some checks before it lent to Mr H. This included asking Mr H for 
information about his income and expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. Likely 
Loans said the information it gathered showed that the loan was affordable for Mr H.
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by Likely Loans at the time as well as a 
more recently obtained credit report which provides some information covering the period 
when Mr H took out this loan. Ive carefully considered whether the information that Likely 
Loans gathered at the time should reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, 
I dont think that it did.
The report that Likely Loans acquired showed that Mr H had a total debt balance on all his 
accounts of £500 and 6 credit accounts. There wasnt anything to suggest that bankruptcy 
was a concern or that Mr H had run into any problems making payments to his other 
creditors.
Overall, I think it would have been fair for Likely Loans to have considered that Mr Hs credit 
report showed a positive payment history and that his use of credit didnt appear to be 
excessive or out of control.
Taking things as a whole, I also think it would have been reasonable for Likely Loans to 
consider that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Mr H  taking into account the amount he had to pay each month towards his existing creditors, what hed 
declared as his income and allowing for some general living expenses.
Overall, I think the checks that Likely Loans carried out before lending to Mr H were, broadly 
speaking, reasonable and proportionate. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as 
requesting bank statements  were required. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances 
for Likely Loans to have relied on the information that Mr H provided and what it found in its 
checks. 
If Mr H was in a more difficult financial position, for instance failing to make payments due to 
utility companies, this doesnt appear to be something that he shared with Likely Loans at 
that time and it isnt apparent from the checks it did  and I cant fairly say it is something 
that proportionate checks would have uncovered. 
I dont think there was anything in the information that Likely Loans gathered at the time 
which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Mr Hs financial position 
when he applied for the loan. Or that ought reasonably to have led the lender to conclude 
that his loan application should be declined.
Im grateful to Mr H for sending me his bank statements from the time. But to be clear, 
I wouldnt have expected Likely Loans to have asked to see these for the reasons I have 
explained. And as far as I can see, these dont show enough adverse information to make 
me think a responsible lender should have declined his loan application if it had seen the 
information these show. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a 
credit history showing other debt or even an impaired credit record  and these things 
wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
In the months prior to him taking this loan the bank statements I've seen show a four figure 
credit balance on his main current account at the month end, so I think the payment 
problems he mentioned might have started later. 
I think its fair to say that it looks like Likely Loans relied on information that suggested a 
higher amount of take home pay than appears on the bank statements I've seen. In the three 
months running up to Mr H taking out this loan it looks like his average monthly pay was 
around £1,715  which was £500 or so less than the figure that Likely Loans thought he 
would be paid each month. But this makes no overall difference to the outcome. Even if 
Likely Loans had assessed affordability using a more accurate income figure, the loan 
monthly repayments would still have looked comfortably affordable for Mr H. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr H said about a smaller loan taken out soon afterwards 
being deemed unaffordable. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked 
at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases 
doesnt change my conclusion here. 
For all the reasons I've explained more fully above, I dont plan to uphold Mr Hs complaint 
about this loan because I cant fairly say that Likely Loans irresponsibly provided an 
unaffordable loan when it did a proportionate check that suggested this loan was sustainably 
affordable for Mr H. 
So I hope this helps to explain why Im not planning on upholding Mr Hs unfair lending 
complaint.
  
Has Likely Loans treated Mr H unfairly in any other way?Ive thought about what Mr H has said about the cost of the loan repayments. I think there 
was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that Mr H might 
now feel this was unfair. But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of 
interest payable. Mr H had to actively engage in the loan application process. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr H was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
And taking the evidence as a whole, I dont find that Likely Loans acted unfairly towards him 
in some other way. 
I am sorry that Mr H has had money problems and I appreciate that he will be disappointed 
by my decision. But I hope that setting things out as I've done means that Mr H will feel that 
his point of view has been fully considered and even if the outcome isnt what he was hoping 
for that he will understand how I've reached my conclusions.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
previously. Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my 
mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman