DRN-1573405
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2000 when    
Miss M applied for a credit card. Miss M says Barclays Bank Plc  trading as Barclaycard  
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
It looks like the policy was sold during a meeting between Miss M and Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. It has provided a copy 
of Miss Ms form. The form has a section for the PPI, and this has been marked with an x 
to opt for the policy. It also contains Miss Ms personal information, such as her job, mothers 
maiden name and date of birth. The form is pre-printed with these details. I think a 
conversation took place between Miss M and Barclaycard's employee and the form has 
been completed based on what was discussed and then printed out for Miss M to read and 
sign. The application doesn't say PPI was compulsory. And Miss M signed the form, so I 
think if there was anything on the form, she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed to, she 
would've had the opportunity to question it at the time.  
So, I think Barclaycard made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI  and she 
decided to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this now. 
Miss M says Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to her, but she hasnt been able to give 
us much detail to support why she thinks this was the case. Barclaycard has told us this was 
a branch sale and that it provided advice during credit card applications that took place in 
branch during this period. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely Barclaycard 
did recommend the PPI to Miss M.
As Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Miss M, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Miss M 
says she would have received sick pay benefits from her employer. Having the policy would 
have meant she couldve used her employee benefits for other essential costs if she was too 
unwell to work or became unemployed. And it doesnt look like she had any other means of 
making her repayments  such as saving - so she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think Miss M has lost out by anything Barclaycard might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman