DRN-3071851
The complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to help when shed sent funds to 
one of its customers accounts as a result of an email interception scam.
Ms D is represented in this complaint by Mr M. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to 
Ms D.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here.
Ms D is a solicitor and was acting for Mr M in relation to the sale of a property, she was 
expecting to send a payment of 80,555.03 euros to Mr M, following the sale of his property. 
On 27 January 2020 Ms D emailed Mr M to advise that she would be arranging to send the 
payment to him later that day (to account details hed previously provided). Following this 
she received an email from someone purporting to be Mr M asking for the payment to be 
sent to different account details. Ms D sent the money to the new account details, unaware 
at the time the email communication between her and Mr M had been intercepted and the 
new account details shed been provided with were not Mr Ms. The money credited an 
unknown third-party account held with Lloyds. 
Ms D realised something was wrong when Mr M contacted her as the money he was 
expecting had not arrived. She notified her bank, who Ill refer to as B, to request the return 
of the money. B contacted Lloyds, who advised no funds remained that could be returned. 
Mr M also reported the matter to Lloyds, the police and Action Fraud.
Ultimately, Ms D complained. She was unhappy that Lloyds had failed to carry out due 
diligence on a large incoming payment and had credited the money to its customers account 
without checking that the named beneficiary on the payment instruction matched the named 
account holder. She also had concerns about the action taken by Lloyds following 
notification of fraud and its failure to co-operate with B. She asked Lloyds to return the 
money which she says has been incorrectly paid into Lloyds customers account.
Lloyds issued its final response after Ms D had brought her complaint to our service. It didnt 
uphold Ms Ds complaint. It said it couldnt agree to returning the money as it had made no 
errors. The beneficiary account was opened correctly, was operating normally and there 
were no reasons for concern prior to receiving notification of fraud from B. Upon notification, 
it blocked the account and informed B no funds remained. It confirmed an investigation into 
the account was carried out and appropriate action had been taken. It also said that it had 
managed to recover £7,755 from other banks the money had been paid away to, which was 
returned to Ms Ds account.  
Ms D was not satisfied with Lloyds response. She was also unhappy with the length of time 
Lloyds had taken in responding to her complaint. She said that it was unacceptable, and the 
delay has hindered the likelihood of recovery of the funds, identification of the criminals and 
the polices ability to take action. In addition to returning the money, she said she would like 
Lloyds to award compensation for the considerable amount of stress its actions have caused 
her client Mr M. 
Our investigator considered Ms Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he couldnt fairly say that Lloyds had done anything wrong. He concluded that 
Lloyds couldnt reasonably have identified the fraud nor could it have recovered more 
money. Ms D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Upon reviewing Ms D and Lloyds submissions I thought that in reaching his conclusion, our 
investigator had taken into account some considerations which fall outside our services 
jurisdiction. I wrote to Ms D as I wanted to clarify what I can  and cant  look into. I also 
shared what I thought about the aspect of her complaint that I could consider. 
Ms D asked for a formal written decision. 
On 16 December 2021, I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained the limits on 
which parts of Ms Ds complaint I can consider and why. Now the jurisdiction matter has 
been decided, Ive shared below what I think about the aspects of Ms Ds complaint I do 
have the power to investigate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, but Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that an account later found to have been 
utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund 
nor does it definitively mean that the recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent a loss. I also 
can't consider the complaint with the benefit of hindsight. I need to decide whether the steps 
taken by Lloyds, based on the information available to it at the time, were reasonable. In 
reaching that decision I must take into account what at the time were Lloyds regulatory 
obligations and what was considered good industry practice. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
to apply standards or processes that apply to payments made today if these werent in place 
at the time of the event complained of.
Due diligence on incoming payment
Ms D's says that Lloyds ought to have checked that the named beneficiary on the payment 
instruction matched the named account holder before crediting funds to the third-party 
account. I can understand why she feels strongly about this point. But at the time the 
payment was made, there was no requirement on receipt of a payment for the receiving 
bank to check whether the name on an account matched the named payee.  As Ive previously explained in my jurisdiction decision, I cant consider a complaint about a 
payment service users rights and Lloyds obligations arising under Parts 6 and 7 of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). My consideration is limited to whether, on 
receipt of the payment, Lloyds failed in its obligations to identify its customers account was 
being used to receive authorised push payment (APP) scam funds. I will, however, need to 
refer to some sections of the regulations to explain the reasons for why I dont think Lloyds 
reasonably ought to have checked the beneficiary name on receipt of payment. But to be 
clear it will only be in the context of explaining why, I dont think, Lloyds could have 
reasonably done more to prevent the fraud.  
The PSRs set out that a payment is sent according to a unique identifier. This is the key 
information used to route the payment to the correct destination and payee. 
The PSRs define a unique identifier as follows: 
 .. unique identifier means a combination of letters, numbers or symbols specified to the 
payment service user by the payment service provider and to be provided by the payment 
service user in relation to a payment transaction in order to identify unambiguously one or 
both of 
(a) another payment service user who is a party to the payment transaction; 
(b) the other payment service users payment account
The effect of this is that for UK payments this is typically the account number and sort code. 
And for an overseas payment (like here) it will be the international banking account number 
(IBAN) of the payee. Other information may be provided as part of the payment instruction, 
but this is not part of the unique identifier, unless it has been specified as such by the 
payment service provider (PSP)  which is not the case here. 
I explained when I wrote to Ms D a payee name is not unique. A bank/PSP could hold 
multiple accounts for persons with the same name, however, no two payment accounts 
share the same account number and sort-code (or IBAN)  this is unique to the payment 
account. Therefore, typically these details (not a payees name) are considered the unique 
identifier.
Section 90 of the PSRs states: 
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider 
involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique 
identifier 
The impact of this is that as long as the receiving PSP processes the payment transaction in 
accordance with the unique identifier provided and the funds are credited to the specified 
account number and sort-code (in Ms Ds case the IBAN provided) the payment is 
considered to be executed correctly. 
Ms D says B told her it is the receiving banks responsibility to check the IBAN and 
beneficiary details on receipt of payment  not theirs  as they wouldnt have access to this 
information. I appreciate the point Ms D makes, that unlike UK banks which have signed up 
to confirmation of payee (CoP), overseas banks do not have access to the beneficiary 
account holder details. So certain checks cant be completed when the payment is initiated. I 
can see why having been the victim of a scam perpetrated in this way, Ms D feels that a 
simple, yet effective step to prevent this type of fraud occurring would be for receiving banks 
to carry out these additional checks on receipt of an overseas payment. However, at the time, Lloyds systems were set up to automatically credit payments received  
from overseas banks to the account with the corresponding unique identifier (IBAN)  
checking the payee name against the account holder name was not part of the process. Nor 
was this a requirement under the relevant regulations. It also wasnt industry practice, on 
receipt of an overseas payment, to check that the beneficiary name matched. So I can't fairly 
say that Lloyds havent acted reasonably when crediting the payment Ms D sent to the 
payment account associated with the IBAN details shed provided in her payment instruction 
to B, and I am not persuaded Lloyds should have done more to check the beneficiary name 
in the circumstances of this payment. So Im satisfied Lloyds couldnt reasonably have 
prevented the fraud on receipt of Ms Ds payment.
Account activity 
I agree with the investigator that there was a change in the operation of the account. But 
simply because something might appear to be unusual or uncharacteristic doesn't always 
equate to fraud nor does a failure to intervene invariably lead to the conclusion that the loss 
was preventable. Whilst one reason to explain a change in the operation of an account is 
possible fraud. There are several other legitimate reasons which can equally be a possible 
reason for the change in someones account operation, such as, a lifestyle change 
(employment, marriage, relocation, inheritance) or a one-off sale/purchase.
In these circumstances, looking at the change in activity on the account I think its 
reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have made some enquiries. However, Im persuaded 
upon contact the beneficiary account holder would've provided a plausible explanation for 
the receipt and expenditure of the funds. I say this because, here, the account holder did 
respond to Lloyds investigations after receipt of notification of fraud from B. I think if Lloyds 
had intervened at an earlier point, they most likely wouldve been provided with the same 
explanation about the source of funds and spending. At this stage I don't think Lloyds 
wouldve had a reasonable basis upon which it could say that it did not accept what its 
customer had said based on what wouldve been known to it at that point in time  which 
was the following:
beneficiary account was an established account;
there were no notably obvious signs or warnings of fraud;
the spending on the account did not fit the usual pattern of fraud Lloyds may expect 
to see in cases of misappropriation of funds;
in fact the spending supported the narrative the account holder provided Lloyds 
during its investigations about the source of funds; and
there was no suspicious or unusual activity on the account prior to Ms D's funds 
arriving and being paid away.
With the benefit of hindsight, its easy to say the Lloyds ought to have identified this as fraud. 
But faced with the above scenario, with no notifications of fraud and an explanation provided 
by the account holder that wasnt noticeably suspicious, and which could easily have been a 
genuine set of circumstances. I dont think in this situation prior to receipt of notification of 
fraud there was enough evidence or grounds upon which Lloyds couldve withheld the funds 
from their customer and reasonably concluded fraud.Response and recovery
Im also satisfied that Lloyds responded appropriately to notification of fraud and acted 
reasonably by returning funds it had managed to recover from one of the banks its account 
holder had transferred money to. I have taken on board the point Ms D raises about the 
fraud being reported to Lloyds in February 2020 and funds not being returned until 
August 2020. Naturally I would expect this to raise concerns and questions around whether 
proper action was taken by Lloyds? and whether there were delays that impacted sums that 
couldve been recovered? 
With that in mind, Ive reviewed the account statements and I am satisfied that by the time 
Lloyds received notification of fraud (even at the earliest point of 6 February 2020) the 
balance of the account at that point was under £1 and the money Ms D had sent, had 
already been spent.
The process a receiving bank would generally follow upon receipt of notification of fraud 
would be to immediately place blocks on the account to prevent any further loss and notify 
the sending bank whether any funds remained. The receiving bank would then conduct its 
own investigation before returning any funds (if any remained). Here, Im satisfied Lloyds 
promptly blocked the beneficiary account upon notification and informed B no funds 
remained in the account that could be returned. The information provided at the time was 
correct. 
I can see Lloyds went a step further by contacting the banks where the funds had been 
transferred to from their customers account, to assist in any recovery beyond the account 
they held. In April 2020 and May 2020, one of the banks notified Lloyds some funds had 
been recovered. Lloyds sent swift messages to B in April and May 2020 informing them 
money had been recovered. It asked B to send an indemnity so that the recovered money 
could be returned. No indemnity was received from B until August 2020. Upon receipt of 
which the money recovered was returned.   
So ultimately, I dont think Lloyds actions in assisting Ms D with the recovery of her funds 
have been unreasonable and in my judgement from what Ive seen I dont think the delay in 
returning the money recovered resulted from Lloyds failure.
Whilst I appreciate Ms D has suggested the delay in responding to her complaint has 
impacted the recovery of her payment, identification of the criminals and action that couldve 
been taken by the police  Im afraid I disagree. I think its important to distinguish that there 
is a difference in the time Lloyds took to respond to the fraud and the time it took to respond 
to Ms Ds complaint  and the impact on the recovery of the money. As Ive explained above, 
Im satisfied Lloyds acted promptly upon notification of fraud  unfortunately by the time it 
received notification Ms Ds money had left the account. A police investigation into a 
reported crime is an independent matter. I can see that Mr M informed the police at the time 
the scam was discovered. It wouldve then been for the police to contact Lloyds. Im sure 
had Lloyds been contacted by the police; it wouldve co-operated with their enquiries. So Im 
satisfied that even if Lloyds had provided its response to Ms Ds complaint sooner it still 
wouldnt have resulted in more money being recovered.  Co-operation with M
Part of Ms Ds complaint is about Lloyds failure to respond to Bs request for confirmation 
that Mr M was not the beneficiary account holder. Ive not seen any evidence that B has 
requested this information from Lloyds. Also taking into consideration that Ms D has said she 
chased B for Lloyds response but obtained no reply. I think its most likely that B did not ask 
Lloyds for this information. So, I cant fairly say that Lloyds have failed to co-operate with B 
in its efforts to recover Ms Ds funds.     
Trouble and Upset
Ive carefully considered whether I think compensation is payable for any trouble and upset 
for the overall handling of the matter and delays in responding to Ms Ds complaint. 
Ultimately, I think the majority of the distress and inconvenience Ms D has experienced 
stems from the actions of the fraudsters who intercepted the email communication between 
her and Mr M. It follows that I cant fairly ask Lloyds to pay Ms D compensation for the stress 
caused by the actions of a third-party. And as I don't consider this complaint should be 
upheld in favour of Ms D - whilst I accept the whole incident will have caused distress and 
inconvenience, I'm not satisfied this should warrant any payment of compensation. 
Overall, to be able to ask Lloyds to return Ms Ds money I would need to be satisfied that its 
failure to intervene and/or appropriately respond upon notification of fraud caused money to 
be paid away that otherwise wouldnt have been. Ive carefully considered this and on 
balance, based on what I've seen I don't think Lloyds couldve done more. I say this 
because looking at everything known to Lloyds at the time (not what is known today) I can't 
say that prior to notification of fraud there was enough going on that ought to have 
reasonably given Lloyds a material cause for concern over fraud/misappropriation of funds. I 
also dont think the observed activity would've reasonably led Lloyds to the conclusion that 
this was fraud with the required level of certainty needed to act outside its customer mandate 
and refuse payments its account holder had authorised. Im also satisfied Lloyds responded 
appropriately when notified of the fraud. So it follows that I cant fairly ask Lloyds to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman