DRN-2210022
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he acquired from N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as Northridge
Finance) (Northridge) under a hire purchase agreement was of unsatisfactory quality,
contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
What happened
In December 2018, Mr W acquired a car from Northridge under a hire purchase agreement.
The car was then some three and a half years old with a recorded mileage of 26,315 miles.
The cash price of the car was £36,400. Mr W paid an initial deposit of £2,000. The balance
of the cash price and finance charges was to be paid by monthly instalments of £536.93 for
47 months, with a final payment of £14,905.
In the following months, Mr W raised a number of issues with the supplying dealer (SD).
Briefly these included:
the alloy wheels supplied with the car. SD had arranged for these to be refurbished
before the car was delivered. Mr W wasnt satisfied with the finish. So SD arranged a
further refurbishment. Mr W was unhappy with this too, and no further refurbishment
was possible. So Mr W sourced a set of used replacement wheels at a cost to Mr W
of £1,500, which SD fitted for him;
replacing an information screen trim cover panel;
carrying out wheel alignments;
replacing an exhaust system clamping sleeve;
updating steering control software;
checking, and adjusting as necessary, steering wheel alignment, tracking and 
suspension.
SD didnt accept all of Mr Ws complaints. In some cases it found no faults, or said
measurements were within manufacturers tolerances.
For most of the time the car was with SD it supplied Mr W with a courtesy car free of charge,
although Mr W was unhappy that this wasnt of the same size as his car. And SD didnt
charge for any of the work it carried out. However, Mr W lived 51 miles away from SD; so
travelling backwards and forwards involved time and petrol.
Mr W complained about the work that had to be done both to SD and to Northridge. SD
offered to take the car back and refund what Mr W had paid. He declined this offer, and said
he wanted the faults to be put right and to be compensated.
SD didnt acknowledge that the wheels supplied were of unsatisfactory standard. However,
after much correspondence, SD agreed in May 2019 that it would pay him £680 as a
goodwill gesture, including £180 in respect of Mr Ws petrol expenses, and would allow him
30% off the cost of his next service at SD. This was offered in full and final settlement of Mr
Ws complaints, and was accepted by Mr W.
Unfortunately, early in June 2019 a split appeared in the plastic cover of a shock absorber
due to corrosion, and Mr W said the steering wheel needed to be re-aligned. Mr W
complained again to Northridge about this and the previous issues. He wanted
compensation for the loss of use and enjoyment of the car.
Northridge didnt accept his complaint. It said it thought the car was of satisfactory standard
when supplied, so it had fulfilled its obligations to Mr W under CRA. It did offer to accept a
preferential settlement figure under the hire purchase agreement of some £4,600 less than
was then due. Mr W didnt accept this offer and complained to us.
While this complaint was with us, Mr W said it had developed further faults in December
2019, and had to be recovered to another main dealer for his make of car (MD). He said it
had lost power and the front exhaust clamp kept coming off. The car was now due for an
MOT test which Mr W said it would fail. He wanted Northridge to pay for a hire car for him
while the car was being repaired.
Northridge wouldnt pay for a hire car. It made enquiries of MD. MDs technician said Mr W
told MD the car lost power when it hit a pothole. MD ran a diagnosis for the car but said it
couldnt fault the car, or find any evidence of the issues Mr W was referring to. It did say
there was a one off occurrence of a cylinder misfiring, but this issue seemed to be resolved.
The car also passed its MOT on 27 December 2019 without any issues or advisories.
Mr W said when he collected the car from MD the engine management light came on and
the car started shaking. He also said the windscreen had cracked and had to be repaired.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. On the basis of the
evidence, she thought there was a fault with the car, although happening intermittently. She
pointed out that issues started to occur quickly and frequently after Mr W took delivery of the
car.
Mr W had complained of issues with the dynamic ride control system (DRC), and the fault in
June 2019 was a leak from the DRC shock absorber. He also had repeated problems with
wheel alignment. She thought the evidence showed that there was a fault in the DRC system
at delivery, and so the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
On 19 December 2019, the investigator recommended that Northridge should:
terminate the finance agreement and take the car back at no cost to Mr W;
return the deposit of £2,000 and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to this issue;
reimburse Mr W the full cost of the wheels plus 8%;
pay additional costs that included renewal of upcoming tax, MOT, insurance and 
other costs in relation insuring the car as he was paying for a car he would no longer 
have;
pay Mr W compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience;
reimburse Mr W one months payment as he hadnt had the same level of vehicle 
and he had a loan car that was not like for like; and
provide Mr W with a hire car as his MOT was due on 20 December 2019 and it was 
going to fail.Northridge didnt accept the investigators recommendation, and so this complaint was
passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a first provisional decision to Mr W and to Northridge on 12 February 2020. In it I 
said that I had come to a different conclusion from the investigator.
I accepted that soon after Mr W took delivery of the car, a number of faults appeared. This
meant a lot of travelling between home and SDs premises while these were sorted out. The
car that SD loaned while this was happening wasnt of the same size as Mr Ws car.
However, this was often the case with courtesy cars.
Mr W said the alloy wheels supplied with the car werent of satisfactory quality. Northridge
didnt accept this. It said it was Mr Ws decision to have them refurbished, and then to
replace them. So it shouldnt be responsible for the cost of this.
Be that as it may, Mr W had entered into lengthy correspondence with SD about all the
issues hed had with the car from delivery up till May 2019, and how he should be
compensated. As a result, SD had offered Mr W the compensation mentioned above, in full
and final settlement of the issues that had occurred up till then, and Mr W had accepted this.
Having reached that settlement with SD, I thought it wasnt reasonable for Mr W now to
complain about the same issues, and to expect further compensation from SD, or from
Northridge. So I concluded that if no further issues had occurred after the date of that
settlement Mr W wouldnt now have the right to reject the car, or receive further
compensation, in respect of those issues.
Mr W had exercised his right under CRA to have the faults which appeared up till May 2019
repaired by SD, acting in this respect as agent of Northridge. For Mr W to be able to reject
the car now under CRA, I thought:
the repairs which were carried out would have to have failed; or
some further fault(s) would have to have appeared after 16 May 2019, the date of the 
settlement, which on the balance of probabilities were present in the car on 12 
December 2018, the date of the hire purchase agreement, and meant that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at that date, given its then age and mileage.
I said I was also conscious that under CRA, in respect of faults appearing in the six months
after delivery, the onus of proof was on Northridge to show they werent present at delivery.
But in respect of faults appearing after that date the onus of proof to show they were present
at delivery was on Mr W.
Although Mr W had said further faults in the car appeared after this settlement, I thought the
evidence for this that Id seen was scanty. It appeared there was a leak in the front offside
shock absorber plastic cover. In its letter to Mr W dated 12 June 2019 Northridge had said
this was a wear and tear issue due to corrosion. So it didnt accept the car was faulty
because of this at delivery. I thought this was a reasonable response by Northridge.
I hadnt seen evidence of any other fault that arose and was repaired at this time. Id seen an
invoice from another main dealer dated 17 June 2019. But the only fault shown on it was
offside front shock absorber leaking which I assumed was same fault Id mentioned above.
After that time, Id seen no evidence of any further faults until what Mr W said happened in
December 2019  that the car lost power and the front exhaust clamp kept coming off.However, I noted that MD said Mr W told it the car lost power when it hit a pothole.
MD had run a diagnosis for the car but said it couldnt fault the car, or find any evidence of
the issues Mr W was referring to. It did say there was a one off occurrence of a cylinder
misfiring, but this issue seemed to be resolved. The car also passed its MOT on 27
December 2019 without any issues or advisories.
On the evidence that Id seen, I said I wasnt persuaded either that the repairs carried out by
SD before 16 May 2019 failed, or that other faults appeared after that date which, on the
balance of probabilities, were present at delivery. So I didnt think Mr W now was entitled to
reject the car, or to receive any further compensation from Northridge.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that:
I was wrong to say no further repairs were carried out after 16 May 2019 because 
another main dealer had reported offside front shock absorber leaking (failed) on 17 
June 2019. And it was wrong for Northridge to say this was a wear and tear issue 
due to corrosion after it had already been replaced with a new part by SD on 4 
February 2019;
numerous attempts were made, unsuccessfully, by SD to realign the steering before 
May 2019. So under CRA the car wasnt fit for purpose, and he was entitled to reject 
it;
the loan car provided to him was his entitlement under the manufacturers warranty 
rather than being given by SD;
the goodwill settlement was only in respect of his fuel costs (£180) and the faulty 
wheels (£500). He had spent more than £180 on fuel costs, and the promise of 30% 
off the costs of his next service had since been withdrawn by SD;
after the settlement he agreed with SD, he had continued to report faults with the 
steering alignment, suspension knock, rattles from the centre dashboard, and flexing 
of the panoramic roof to Northridge on a weekly basis. So the issues he had 
complained about earlier had continued; and
before and after his visit to MD in December 2019, the car was suffering from a 
misfiring fault which caused a loss of power. He didnt know where I had got the 
suggestion that the loss of power was caused by his hitting a pothole.
Northridge responded to say that from enquiries it had made of SD, it seemed the offside
front shock absorber had been replaced under warranty by SD in February 2019. However, it
said there was no information to show why the replacement had failed in June 2019  it
could have resulted from the car being driven into kerbs.
I issued a second provisional decision to Mr W and to Northridge on 17 August 2020. In it I 
said that from the information Northridge had now provided, I accepted that when the offside 
front shock absorber failed in June 2019, this was the second occasion it had done so since 
delivery of the car to Mr W.
I said Id seen nothing to suggest the second failure was caused by the way Mr W drove the 
car. I also accepted Mr Ws evidence that at the same time the steering was found still to be 
out of alignment, notwithstanding previous repairs carried out by SD to try to rectify this.
In view of this further information, I found that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when
delivered to Mr W, and because previous repairs to these components were unsuccessful
Mr W was entitled to reject the car in June 2019, and was still entitled to do so. I thoughtNorthridge was wrong to refuse this, and this had caused Mr W distress and inconvenience
in the period since then.
However, I still thought the settlement that Mr W agreed with SD in May 2019 had the effect 
of closing the issues which had arisen prior to then. So I didnt think it was appropriate for 
me to require Northridge to compensate him further in respect of these issues  for example 
the alloy wheels supplied originally.
I understood that Mr W had continued to make use of the car, certainly up to December 
2019, and to pay insurance, repairs and running costs in respect of the car, which had 
continued to have problems. I also understood he hadnt paid any monthly instalments under 
the hire purchase agreement since the investigator made her recommendation in December 
2019.
I believed the car was still in Mr Ws possession. The investigator had asked Mr W what use 
he had made of the car since December 2019, and for details of any work/expenditure he 
had had to carry out, but hadnt received any response from him.
I said the situation had moved on since the investigator made her recommendation in 
December 2019. So I thought a different resolution of the complaint was now appropriate.
On the information available to me, I thought a fair and reasonable resolution was that 
Northridge should now:
1. allow Mr W to reject the car and terminate the hire purchase agreement without 
requiring him to make any further payment under the agreement;
2. arrange to collect the car from Mr W at a time and place convenient to him and 
without cost to Mr W;
3. return the deposit of £2,000 and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
4. remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to the agreement or Mr Ws conduct under it; and
5. pay Mr W compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
Mr W said that he accepted my provisional recommendation. He confirmed that he still had 
the car and continued to use it. He had maintained, serviced and insured the car but hadnt 
paid any monthly instalments to Northridge since December 2019. He said the car continued 
to exhibit the faults he had previously complained about.
Northridge responded to say, in summary, that:
it struggled to understand how a car that had passed its MOT in 2018, and again in 
2019, and was deemed free from faults in January 2020 by MD could reasonably be 
said to be of unsatisfactory quality;
although Mr W denied this had happened, MD had said it was told the car had hit a 
pothole, which could account for the shock absorber issue; and
Mr W had applied to Northridge for finance to buy another car in January 2020, which 
indicated he was seeking to buy another car irrespective of the outcome of his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.An MOT is a fairly rudimentary test of a cars mechanical condition at a particular point in 
time. So the fact that a car passes an MOT doesnt in itself mean that it is of satisfactory 
quality for the purposes of CRA when delivered.
For the reasons I set out in my second provisional decision, following the further information 
I had received, I remain of the view that:
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when delivered to Mr W;
because previous repairs to the cars components were unsuccessful Mr W was 
entitled to reject the car in June 2019, and is still entitled to do so; and
Northridge was wrong to refuse this, and this has caused Mr W distress and 
inconvenience in the period since then.
Nothing Northridge has said leads me to change this view, or to vary what I proposed in my 
second provisional decision as a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
I think Northridge should allow Mr W to reject the car, and take the other actions, as set out 
in my final decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as 
Northridge Finance) to:
1. allow Mr W now to reject the car and terminate the hire purchase agreement without 
requiring him to make any further payment under the agreement;
2. arrange to collect the car from Mr W at a time and place convenient to him and 
without cost to Mr W;
3. return the deposit of £2,000 to Mr W;
4. pay Mr W yearly interest on the £2,000 deposit at the rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment by Mr W until settlement; (1)
5. remove any adverse reports that may have been made to Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to the agreement or Mr Ws conduct under it; and
6. pay Mr W compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
(1)  If Northridge considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman