DRN-3115511
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, incorrectly reported arrears to 
her credit file and didnt correct her credit file in a timely manner when they said they would.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs B contacted Halifax to clear the balance in full on her credit card 
account. However, Halifax didnt process Mrs Bs request correctly and a small balance was 
left outstanding by mistake. This balance was then reported by Halifax to the credit reference 
agencies as account arrears. Mrs B wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mrs Bs complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt processed the 
payment correctly and so they apologised to Mrs B and made a payment to her of £150 as 
compensation for any inconvenience the matter may have caused. Halifax also agreed to 
remove the incorrect adverse reporting from Mrs Bs credit file. However, several months 
later, Mrs B noticed that Halifax hadnt corrected her credit file as theyd promised they 
would, and this impacted Mrs Bs ability to get a mortgage at a favourable rate. So, Mrs B 
referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the response that Halifax 
issued to Mrs Bs initial complaint, including the £150 compensation and the offer to correct 
the credit file, represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place. Our 
investigator also felt that Halifax had been able to demonstrate that theyd made the credit 
file amendment request when they said that they would, and they didnt feel that Halifax 
could be reasonably held accountable for one of the credit reference agencies not acting on 
that request. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax dont dispute that they didnt process Mrs Bs payment correctly here, and that a 
result of this was that Mrs B incurred adverse reporting on her credit when that shouldnt 
have been the case. 
In circumstances such as this, what this service would expect would be that Halifax would 
undertake the corrective action necessary to return Mrs B to the position that she should 
have been in, had the error not been made. And it would also be expected that Halifax would 
apologise to Mrs B and make a fair offer of compensation in light of any upset or trouble that 
she may have incurred.
I think that Halifax have done that here, and I say this because they did apologise to Mrs B 
and made a compensation payment of £150 to her. Additionally, Halifax also submitted an 
amendment request to the credit reference agencies to correct the reporting on Mrs Bs 
credit file. And this is what this service would have expected Halifax to have done here.
Halifax have been able to demonstrate to this service that they did submit the credit file 
amendment request to all the credit reference agencies. But unfortunately, one of the credit 
reference agencies appears to have not implemented the corrections that Halifax instructed 
of them at that time. And it seems that this was why Mrs B later discovered that the 
incorrectly reported arrears remained on her credit file with that credit reference agency.
I appreciate that Mrs B may disagree here, but I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably hold 
Halifax account for the corrective instruction that they sent not being actioned by the credit 
reference agency, particularly given that the credit reference agency in question doesnt 
allow financial institutions such as Halifax to view an individuals credit file so as to be able to 
confirm whether any requested corrections have been applied.
So, while I can appreciate that Mrs B was impacted by the adverse reporting not being 
removed from her credit file by this particular credit reference agency, Im satisfied that 
Halifax made a request in good faith for Mrs Bs credit file be corrected, and that Halifax had 
to rely on this agency undertaking that corrective action, given that Halifax werent able to 
confirm that the corrections had been completed directly themselves. 
All of which means that, as explained previously, Im satisfied that Halifaxs response to Mrs 
Bs initial complaint  including the payment of £150 compensation and the corrective action 
of requesting that Mrs Bs credit file be corrected  was a fair and reasonable resolution to 
that complaint. And given that Halifax did make the credit file correction request that theyd 
promised to Mrs B, but that one credit reference agency didnt action that request  which as 
explained I dont feel that I can reasonably hold Halifax account for  I dont feel that I can 
fairly uphold this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs B was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action at this time. I trust 
that Mrs B will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman