DRN-3028826
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2003. Mrs 
and Mr W say Santander UK PLC, trading as Alliance & Leicester, mis-sold them the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Santander throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the mis-sale element of the complaint and 
said they didnt think we should uphold it. However, they thought Santanders subsequent 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mrs and Mr W paid, was fair in the circumstances. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Santander should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost 
of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
A central point of this complaint is that Mrs and Mr W allege they were pressured into taking 
the PPI out. Whilst I accept this may be their honest and genuine recollections now, Im 
afraid the evidence does point the other way. 
For example, I think it was made it clear enough that Mrs and Mr W didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out. I say this because Ive seen the mortgage application 
they filled out where they specifically selected this level of cover, which I note they 
apportioned on a 40/60% basis, apparently to reflect their respective incomes. To me this 
suggests they had given some thought to their needs and requirements and what they 
wanted to do about mortgage protection. I also note they were sent a welcome letter on 28 
April 2003 which, in my view, portrayed the cover as optional. And finally, I see they 
increased the level of cover in 2004, presumably after once again reviewing their financial 
needs.
Mrs and Mr W had also previously had a mortgage, so I think all these things show that they 
would have most likely known they had a choice and the PPI was optional. The evidence is 
strong in this case that it was something they wanted to have. 
In short, I think they provided their consent for the PPI to be added.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr W as part of an advised sale, so it 
had to check it was suitable for their situation. I think it was. 
They were eligible for the cover and whilst I agree they had some sickness protection 
through their jobs, this was a mortgage secured against Mrs and Mr Ws home. The PPI 
would have paid out up to £470 per month (increased to £505 in 2004) for up to a year if 
successfully claimed on, and this would have been in addition to any other means they 
already had. So I think it was suitable and recommending it to them wasnt wrong in these 
circumstances.
Its certainly possible the information Santander gave to Mrs and Mr W about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it might have been. But the paperwork they signed does look quite 
comprehensive to me and I think they knew the costs and what was covered as this was set 
out clearly on the letter Ive mentioned above. Overall, I think they probably had enough 
information on which to make an informed decision about what they wanted to do. 
Also, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from 
the information they were most likely given at the point of sale. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs and Mr W would have acted differently even if I accept that Santander could have done 
a better job at explaining things during the sale; I still think theyd have wanted to take this 
cover out.
Mrs and Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ws particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Santander doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Mrs and Mr W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Mrs and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Santander didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs and Mr W 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs and Mr Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act. In summary, they have said Mrs and Mr W should get back all the 
money they paid for the policy because: Santander failed to tell Mrs and Mr W about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs and Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of 
commission and they should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid. But I dont 
agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipconsumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs and Mr W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the 
high level of commission before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs and Mr Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs and Mr W paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs and Mr W with the policy 
Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Santander had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the 
complaint or make any award in favour of Mrs and Mr W for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK PLC should pay Mrs and Mr W an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman