DRN-4490307
The complaint
Miss H complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to decline a claim for 
veterinary treatment costs.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. 
Miss H has a lifetime pet insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes to cover her dog, 
who Ill refer to as H. She took out the policy in May 2022.
In August 2021, H had been diagnosed with disc herniation and had an operation and 
subsequent post-operative assessment and treatment.
When Miss H purchased her policy with Great Lakes, in May 2022, she was understandably 
keen that cover would extend to any future problems with disc herniation. 
She fully declared the previous issues. And, as I understand it, Great Lakes agreed to 
provide cover which would not exclude future instances of disc herniation. And for that, 
Miss H paid an addition to her premium.
In February and March 2023, it became apparent that H had a further issue with her spine. 
Miss H paid just over £10,000 for treatment and made a claim to Great Lakes to recover 
those costs.
Great Lakes declined the claim. Miss H wasnt happy with that and made a complaint. Great 
Lakes response to Miss Hs complaint isnt entirely clear. Mainly because theyre at pains to 
explain mistakes in the information provided to Miss H - and sought from Miss H - when she 
bought the policy.
However, in essence, it appears they declined the claim because the latest disc herniation 
was the result of a pre-existing condition and because Miss H had provided inaccurate 
information when she renewed the policy.
Great Lakes pointed to the information Miss H had provided about the previous disc 
herniation. Shed been asked whether H had had an operation for disc herniation and shed 
correctly answered yes. 
The next question was Has your pet made a complete recovery with no ongoing treatment 
or follow-up required?. Miss H answered yes. 
Great Lakes said that although they accepted Miss H had acted in good faith, this was in fact 
not true. They said Hs veterinary notes showed that treatment and follow-up for the disc 
herniation in August 2021 was on-going in May 2022 when the policy was purchased.
Great Lakes said that if Miss H had answered that question no, as she should have done, 
they wouldnt have offered cover for disc herniation. And they refunded a part of Miss Hs 
premium on that basis (the additional amount which had been to cover future disc 
herniation).
Miss H wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Great Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably when they declined the claim. 
They thought H had recovered from the original August 2021 disc herniation by May 2022  
and so Miss H had answered Great Lakes questions at renewal accurately. 
And they proposed that Great Lakes should re-consider the claim on the basis that the latest 
treatment was not for a pre-existing condition and Miss H had not misrepresented the facts 
when she renewed the policy. 
They also thought that if Great Lakes then reimbursed Miss H for her payments for treatment 
in 2023, they should add interest to those payments at 8% simple, calculated from the date 
Miss H made the payments to the date Great Lakes reimbursed her. 
Our investigator also told Great Lakes that they thought it was unfair that the lifetime policy 
now had an exclusion for all disc-related injuries. They said Great Lakes should remove that 
exclusion and restore the policy to version extant after purchase in May 2022.
They also said Great Lakes should pay Miss H £150 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset shed experienced as a result of their error in declining the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say that Great Lakes final response to Miss Hs complaint to them is 
somewhat confusing. Theres a rather convoluted attempt to set out who told Miss H what 
when she bought the policy - and whether they ought to have done so or not.
But to cut to what I think is the point, it appears theyre saying the agent who engaged with 
Miss H about the previous disc herniation should have concluded that they wouldnt cover 
that pre-existing condition. And so, Miss H ought not to have been offered cover relating to 
disc herniation at all. Hence the part-refund of the premium Miss H paid.
That seems to me to amount to retrospective justification of decisions made after it became 
apparent that Miss H was making a claim for costs of treatment in early 2023.
To be fair, in their most recent communications with us, Great Lakes appear to have 
dropped the argument that the 2023 treatment was for a pre-existing condition that wouldnt 
be covered by the policy.
Im pleased they have dropped that argument because it appears not to hold any water.
Theres an expert vets report on Hs condition and medial history which states very clearly 
and cogently that the issues treated in 2023 were not a continuation of the condition treated 
in 2021. 
And in the absence of any contrary expert opinion, Im satisfied that the latest episode 
requiring treatment was very likely not a pre-existing condition.On the face of it, Miss H has bought a policy specifically to cover future instances of disc 
herniation issues  and has told Great Lakes agent that there was a previous instance of 
disc herniation. 
Great Lakes agreed to that  and charged a higher premium because disc herniation was 
covered. And they told Miss H she was covered. And when H then suffered another disc 
herniation, Great Lakes refused to pay out.
I dont think that makes any sense at all. And Im satisfied that, on the face of it, it would be 
palpably unfair for Great Lakes to decline the claim based on the idea that Hs latest 
problems were the result of a pre-existing condition.
That leaves us with the question of whether Miss H misrepresented the facts when she 
bought the policy and said that H had made a complete recovery from the previous disc 
herniation.
Great Lakes say there are two main reasons for saying that treatment and follow-up for the 
original disc herniation in August 2021 were on-going in May 2022 when Miss H bought the 
policy. 
One  H had hydrotherapy after the operation in August 2021, and that continued after May 
2022.
And two  H had a problem with her gait (limping and occasional hopping) after the 
operation in August 2021. And that issue was still under review by Hs vet after May 2022. 
Theres no doubt H was prescribed hydrotherapy after the operation in August 2021. There 
was a further referral for hydrotherapy from Miss Hs vet in April 2022. And the hydrotherapy 
did, as Great Lakes say, continue after May 2022.
Miss H says she continued with the hydrotherapy after the first bout because H enjoyed it  
and it helped with her general fitness.
The hydrotherapist has very helpfully provided us with a report on this. They say that they 
cant accept pets for treatment without a vets referral. So, a further referral from a vet would 
have been necessary in April 2022 if H were to continue with her sessions  whether they 
were clinically necessary as part of Hs recovery or not.
The hydrotherapist also says its not unusual for pets to continue to attend for reasons of 
general fitness and/or strengthening and/or pain relief for life-long conditions.
In all cases with H, the vets referrals to hydrotherapy say the treatment is recommended 
rather than necessary. 
And its reasonably clear to me that the second referral (in April 2022) in particular  which 
led to the hydrotherapy being provided up to and beyond the point in May 2022 when Miss H 
bought her policy  was likely at Miss Hs request. And that it reflected Miss Hs desire to 
keep the sessions going because H enjoyed them and they were generally good for her.
Im not convinced then by Great lakes argument that the continuing hydrotherapy meant that 
H hadnt made a complete recovery from the disc herniation in 2021.
In cases like this, its apparent that a dog may have a lasting, life-long, impact from the disc 
herniation and/or the operation to treat it. The dog may limp or have relatively minor issues 
with its gait. This seems to have happened in Hs case. The hydrotherapy appears to have potentially 
helped with that  as well as being enjoyable for H.
The on-going review of the limp / gait issues is clear in the vets notes up to and beyond May 
2022 (when the policy was purchased). But again, it appears this was due to the likely life-
long affect of the earlier disc herniation and operation on Hs gait.  
I think its arguable whether that  the continuing hydrotherapy and the on-going check-ins 
about the limp - means H had or had not made a complete recovery. And we could have a 
very interesting and lengthy  if rather semantic  discussion about that.
Would a person who suffered a bout of gangrene  and lost a foot as a result  for example, 
be said to have made a complete recovery once the gangrene was gone? Or would they 
be said to have never recovered because they had on-going issues with their gait?
I suspect there are reasonable arguments to be made for both sides of that debate. 
However, what I have to consider is the rather more prosaic question of whether Miss H 
made a misrepresentation when she answered yes to the question Great Lakes asked her 
 Has your pet made a complete recovery with no ongoing treatment or follow-up 
required?.
The relevant legislation here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act (CIDRA). This applies to disclosures made by potential customers when purchasing 
insurance. 
And it says that if a consumer makes a qualifying misrepresentation, then the insurer can 
apply certain remedies such as voiding the policy, declining claims, or settling claims on the 
terms that would have been offered had the truth been known. 
In this case, Great Lakes say they wouldnt have offered cover for future disc herniation had 
they known the facts at the point of purchase, so they are entitled to decline Miss Hs 2023 
claims.
In order for a misrepresentation to be a qualifying misrepresentation under the terms of 
CIDRA, it must be either careless or knowing / reckless.
Great Lakes have said they believe Miss H acted in good faith when she bought the policy  
and told them about the previous disc herniation. So, I have to assume they think she 
misrepresented the facts to them carelessly, rather than knowingly or recklessly.
One of the questions we have to ask when we consider careless misrepresentation is 
whether the question the consumer was asked was clear and unambiguous. If it was, and it 
was answered incorrectly, then  all other things being equal - the misrepresentation may 
have been careless. 
But if the question wasnt clear and unambiguous, it would be difficult to justify saying that 
the consumer had acted carelessly.
As Ive said above, I think its very debatable whether a dog with an on-going and likely life-
long limp or occasional gait issues has completely recovered from a disc herniation. 
But if I put myself in Miss Hs shoes, when she bought the policy  and was trying to make it 
clear to Great Lakes that there had been a previous issue  it wouldnt be unreasonable to 
think that H had made a complete recovery from the disc herniation itself. And it wouldnt 
be unreasonable  much less careless  to answer the relevant question yes.So, in summary, I dont think it would be fair for Great Lakes to decline Miss Hs claims on 
the basis that shed made a misrepresentation to them when she said H had made a 
complete recovery from the disc herniation in 2021.
It follows that I dont think Great Lakes acted reasonably in declining Miss Hs claims on the 
basis that either: (a) H had suffered from a pre-existing condition; and/or (b) that Miss H had 
carelessly answered the relevant question inaccurately when she bought her policy.
Putting things right
On that basis, I agree with our investigator that Great Lakes should re-consider the claims 
from Miss H that they declined in 2023. And they should not decline those claims for the 
reasons theyve so far given  that the condition was pre-existing and/or because Miss H 
misrepresented the facts when she bought the policy.
I also agree that, because Miss H has been out of pocket since she paid for the treatment, if 
they do settle the claims now, Great Lakes should add 8% simple interest, calculated from 
the date Miss H paid out (Miss H will need to provide proof of the date of these payments to 
Great Lakes if she hasnt already done so) to the date Great Lakes reimburse her.
Given the stress, worry and inconvenience Miss H has been caused by Great Lakes errors 
in the handling of her claim, I agree that £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for her 
trouble and upset.
And I also agree that Great Lakes should remove the exclusion or endorsement they added 
to Miss Hs policy to remove cover for all disc-related injuries. This is a lifetime policy. Cover 
for on-going conditions (which were not pre-existing at the point of purchase) should 
therefore be continuous for as long as the policy is renewed.
Given that Im now effectively asking Great Lakes to restore cover for disc-related issues, it 
goes without saying that Great Lakes will be entitled to expect Miss H to return the part-
refund they gave her when they told her the 2023 claims wouldnt be covered. 
If its convenient for both parties, I assume that amount might be deducted from any 
payment Great Lakes now make to Miss H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must:
re-consider the claims Miss H made in 2023 (as set out above);
if they then settle any or all of those claims, pay interest at 8% simple calculated from 
the date Miss H paid out to the date Great Lakes reimburse her;
remove from her policy any exclusions or endorsements relating to disc-related 
injuries; and
pay Miss H £150 in compensation for her trouble and upset. 
If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman