DRN-2706095
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have incorrectly informed her about 
interest charges on her credit card account after she made a balance transfer, and this has 
cost her interest charges and balance transfer fees. 
What happened
Mrs C had an existing Santander credit card and was offered a zero percent balance transfer 
offer for the card. She decided to take up the offer, and transferred a balance to the card on 
10 August 2020, incurring a fee for the transfer of £36.77. 
On 24 August 2020 she called Santander to ask about how interest was applied to the 
purchases she had made and the balance transfer amount on the card. Ive listened to the 
recording of this call. On the back of this call, she made payments she felt would avoid any 
interest being charged on the card. 
When she reviewed her September statement (dated 16 September 2020), she noticed she 
had been charged £45.74 interest. She got in touch with Santander who said this was 
correct, and so she raised a complaint saying this wasnt what she had been told previously 
on the phone call of 24 August 2020. Santander answered the complaint, explaining that 
they felt she had been given no wrong information on that call, and had been charged 
correctly as per the terms of the credit card, so they rejected her complaint but gave her £50 
as a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience. 
Unhappy with this, she transferred the credit card balance away to another provider, 
incurring a further fee. She also brought her complaint to our service. The view of 
investigator who looked at her complaint here was that the terms of the credit card confirmed 
interest would be charged. They felt that whilst the telephone call of 24 August wasnt totally 
clear, it hadnt given Mrs C any wrong information. They felt that the £50 gesture of goodwill 
more than covered the interest payment, and as such, they didnt feel Santander needed to 
do anymore. 
Mrs C didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to review her case and 
make a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there are two distinct issues here, and I will split them out. The first is the terms of the 
card and the balance transfer offer, and the second is the telephone call of 24 August 2020. 
With regards to the balance transfer, in the terms and conditions for the card, and on their 
website, Santander explain that using the card to make purchases will incur interest charges 
if youve carried out a balance transfer, unless you clear the full statement balance including 
the balance transfer. 
Ive seen no evidence that when Mrs C took the balance transfer offer, shed been given any 
incorrect information about how interest would be charged if she chose to transfer a balance 
and also use the card for purchases. The written information available in her card terms and 
conditions, and on the Santander website, explains this. I am satisfied that these 
explanations are clear and were available to Mrs C to help her decide whether to transfer a 
balance onto the card. 
Mrs C carried out the balance transfer on 10 August, and then used the card for purchases 
before she made the call to Santander on 24 August 2020 to enquire about how interest was 
applied to the account. As such, she had already paid the balance transfer fee, and was 
incurring interest on her purchases at this point (unless she chose to pay off the full balance 
including the balance transfer amount). 
On this basis, I cant say that the way interest has been charged was unfair, or that the fees 
for transferring the balance were unfair. Mrs C chose to carry this transfer out, and the 
information about how this would work for a card she already used for purchases each 
month was available to her. 
I appreciate that Mrs C feels the way the card works doesnt make sense for her, as she 
already used the card regularly for purchases, so she would gain no benefit from transferring 
a balance to this account. But there is no evidence Santander have sought to specifically 
offer it to her for that reason or have given her any wrong information about how it would 
work. Mrs C has assumed the balance transfer will work a certain way, but the terms and 
conditions confirm this wouldnt be the case.  
Moving on, there is then the phone call of 24 August 2020. Ive listened to this, and what is 
clear is that Mrs C and the advisor at Santander are talking slightly at cross purposes. With 
the benefit of hindsight, I can tell Mrs C wants to know how to avoid interest charges, 
although its not entirely clear from the way she explains it.
The advisor talked about where Mrs C could see details on her statement about how 
payments are applied and how interest is charged and continues to highlight this when they 
have been through security and are looking at Mrs Cs account. 
I agree that if the advisor had understood what Mrs C wanted to know they may have been 
able to give her the right information. But equally, the advisor didnt provide any wrong 
information to Mrs C, so I cant say they did anything wrong here. Mrs C wasnt told there 
would be no interest charged, she was simply referred back to where it tells her in her 
statements what interest is/will be due, and how any payments made would be applied to 
different balances in a specific way. 
By the time of the call on 24 August 2020, Mrs C had used the card for purchases more than 
30 times since the balance transfer. So, its fair to say that if shed been given the 
information she wanted on the phone on 24 August, she would most likely have complained 
at that stage, and then transferred the card balance away to another provider a little sooner 
than she eventually did. This could potentially have saved her the £45.74 interest she had to 
pay when her September bill arrived.  
In answering the complaint towards the end of September 2020, Santander have rejected 
her complaint, but given her £50. In their final response letter when rejecting the complaint, 
they say this £50 is for the inconvenience.
Mrs C feels this payment was for the time taken to resolve the issue, but once she raised her 
concerns in late September, I am satisfied that Santander responded in a timely fashion. The 
time taken to resolve the issue was really between the unclear telephone call on 24 August 2020, and getting the right information 3-4 weeks later and deciding to transfer the balance 
to another card.  
Mrs C has unfortunately misunderstood how interest would be applied to her account, but 
this isnt because of any wrong information Santander have given to her. Mrs C transferred 
the balance to the card before familiarising herself with how interest would be charged, so it 
was fair of Santander to charge her the balance transfer fee to transfer the balance to the 
card. And it would then be Mrs Cs responsibility to pay another transfer fee if she decided 
she wanted to transfer the balance away to another provider. 
I also wouldnt expect Santander to refund the £45.74 interest charged in this case, as I dont 
believe they did anything wrong or gave Mrs C any wrong information. The telephone call on 
24 August 2020 didnt help matters by clarifying things, but no wrong information was given 
which led to Mrs C incurring any costs. 
Santander have given Mrs C £50 for any inconvenience, which also more than covers that 
interest charged.  As such, I wont be asking Santander to do any more.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman