DRN-1850459
 
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive mortgage application Miss A made through Ipswich 
Mortgage Centre Limited (IMC). The application couldnt proceed because Miss A had no 
deposit to put down. Miss A is unhappy that IMCs broker overlooked this and put an 
application into a lender which carried out a credit search before saying it wouldnt lend to 
her. Miss A is concerned about the impact of the search on her credit rating and wants 
compensation for her time, trouble and upset. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
The basic facts of the complaint arent in dispute; Miss A contacted IMC in July 2019 wanting 
to buy her home under a right-to-buy scheme. She told IMC she had no deposit, but IMC 
inadvertently submitted an application to a lender (Ill call it B) that requires a minimum 5% 
deposit. The application didnt proceed but in the meantime, B had done a credit search on 
Miss A. 
When Miss A complained, IMC accepted it had made a mistake, apologised and offered her 
£50-worth of retail vouchers in compensation. Miss A referred her complaint here saying she 
thought £120 (paid in cash) would be a fair settlement. Our investigator mediated a 
settlement in which IMC agreed to pay the £120 Miss A had asked for. She initially accepted 
but then changed her mind, saying that on further reflection, compensation of between £300 
and £500 was justified. IMC withdrew its offer to pay £120.
With no settlement proposal on the table, our investigator issued his own view of the case 
saying that in his opinion, £120 was fair. Both parties have asked for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, 
and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct 
our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. Its not one where I have to decide 
fault. IMC has admitted it made a mistake and has apologised for it; indeed, it did so within a 
matter of days of the problem coming to light. All I need to decide is what redress Miss A is 
fairly due for that mistake. 
To do that, I need to consider the impact the mistake had on her. The difficulty there is that 
Miss A has produced no evidence of any damage to her credit profile as a consequence of 
that search having been recorded on it. She hasnt even sent us her credit file to assess.
I appreciate Miss A is unhappy that IMC made this mistake. But on the evidence Ive seen, 
the loss shes suffered isnt financial; its a loss of expectation allied to the inconvenience of 
having to deal with IMC and us in bringing the complaint. For that, I assess fair 
compensation at £120. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by 
ordering Ipswich Mortgage Centre Limited to pay Miss A £120. I dont make any other order 
or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which 
means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman