DRN-4223519
The complaint
Mrs S complains about problems she experienced when applying to remove her ex-partner 
from their joint mortgage with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs S held a mortgage with Santander in joint names with her now ex-partner. This 
mortgage was taken in 2006. In early 2023, Mrs S applied to transfer the mortgage into her 
sole name.
An application was submitted, and a credit check completed. However, once this was 
reviewed by underwriters, the application was declined due to affordability concerns. 
Mrs S complained to Santander. She said shed provided the information that resulted in the 
mortgage being declined prior to the credit search being carried out. So, she thought 
Santander should have known before completing the credit search that it would decline her 
application, and this search should be removed from her record. She was also unhappy with 
how Santander had dealt with her, including calling her when she was at work, and looking 
at an account of hers without her permission.
Santander responded to the complaint saying it was right to decline the application following 
the credit search being carried out. So, it wasnt willing to remove the search from Mrs S 
record. However, it did agree its customer service couldve been better and that it had 
caused some minor delays. It paid Mrs S £250 compensation.
Mrs S didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint but thought the offer of £250 was fair so she didnt think it should 
be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs S complaint is that Santander shouldve known it wouldnt be able to offer 
her the mortgage in her sole name sooner than when it declined the mortgage. She believes 
she gave it enough information prior to the credit search being submitted for it to have known 
she wouldnt pass the affordability checks. And because of this, she thinks the search should 
be removed from her credit file.  
Unfortunately, not all calls that Santander had with Mrs S are available. I know Mrs S is 
frustrated that not all calls are available. But I think I can still fairly decide this complaint 
without them. When information is incomplete, I make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think most likely happened given the information I do have.  
I have no reason to doubt that Mrs S provided all of the information that was asked of her 
during her calls with Santander. And I do have a recording of the call Mrs S had when 
Santander completed the credit search. Ive listened to this, and Santander does ask Mrs S 
for her consent to conduct the credit search, and she agrees. 
Santander says it had enough information to proceed to the next stage of the application 
which included conducting a credit search. And at that point, it wasnt clear that the 
mortgage would be deemed unaffordable to Mrs S. As Ive said, I dont know what 
information was provided to Santander prior to this. I accept that Santander was likely aware 
that Mrs S had another mortgage and had been told about the income this was producing. 
But its often the case that things are discovered, or looked into in further detail, once a credit 
search has been conducted. And I think its most likely that this is what has happened here. 
I can see that, following the credit search, Santander had additional questions raised by 
what it found on the search with regards to the other mortgage. The case hadnt been 
approved or declined at this stage as it was still being considered. I dont think Santander 
mis-lead Mrs S into believing the mortgage was approved subject to the credit search being 
conducted. 
The application was declined when further information about the rental income Mrs S 
receives for another mortgage she holds was reviewed by an underwriter. Santander has 
told us that its not until after a credit search has been completed that the case is considered 
by an underwriter. I dont consider this unusual and cant say a mistake was made here.
It was always a possibility that a credit search would be conducted, and the lending might be 
declined following information that is discovered within the search, or other information that 
comes to light. Im satisfied that Santander obtained Mrs S consent to conduct the search 
and was entitled to carry it out. Im not persuaded that, on balance, Santander shouldve 
known it was going to decline the application prior to the credit search being completed. 
Because of this, Im not going to ask it to remove this search. 
As a responsible lender, Santander should always consider whether a mortgage is 
affordable when changes are made such as removing a borrower. Santander needs to be 
satisfied that the change would be in Mrs S best interests and affordable to her. It didnt 
think it was, and this is a decision its entitled to make. 
Mrs S has also complained that Santander looked at another account she held with it without 
her consent. However, this is information that Santander already held and had access to. 
Whilst I can see why Mrs S wouldve liked Santander to ask, I dont think it was required to 
obtain her consent to look at this information. And I think its likely shed have agreed even if 
it had asked. 
Mrs S has said that Santander has looked at an account held by her son as part of this 
application. However, Ive no evidence to back up that this did in fact happen. Nor can I see 
any reason it wouldve needed to.  
Santander has agreed it contacted Mrs S at times it shouldnt have. Its apologised for this 
and paid Mrs S £250 compensation for this. Im satisfied this amount is sufficient in the 
circumstances and in line with what I might have awarded. So, Im not going to ask it to pay 
anything further.  
My final decision
Whilst I realised Mrs S feels very strongly about this matter, my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman