DRN-3802656
The complaint
Ms E complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with her claim for a refund of money 
she paid to a third party (A) using her credit card.
What happened
Ms E entered into a contract with A relating to release of a motorhome that was the subject 
of a chattel mortgage under an agreement between Ms E and another company (B). A 
acquired Bs rights and interests under that agreement after B went into administration.
Ms E says A imposed charges totalling £1,228 to release the motorhome. She paid A as she 
was told that otherwise the motorhome would not be released. But she didnt think A was 
entitled to apply the charges and later contacted Santander to recover the money shed paid. 
Ms E cited section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in support of her claim.
Santander said it wasnt liable reimburse Ms E, on the basis that there was no breach of 
contract and that the way the transaction with A was constructed fell outside the 
requirements for a section 75 claim. The payment hadnt been made directly to A  instead, 
it had gone via a different company (C). Ms E complained to Santander about its response, 
but the bank maintained its position. So she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator found that there was an association between A and C sufficient to establish 
the existence of a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship necessary to proceed with a section 
75 claim. But he wasnt persuaded that A had breached its contract with Ms E. He felt A had 
misled Ms E in respect of its right to impose the charges, but wasnt persuaded that was 
sufficient to amount to a successful claim in misrepresentation. Ms E didnt accept the 
investigators conclusion, so the matter was passed to me for review.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said:
Santanders original position that prompted Ms E to complain was that section 75 
didnt apply to the transaction, due to a break in the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. 
The bank hasnt commented on the investigators conclusions in this respect, so it 
isnt clear whether it now accepts that section 75 does apply. It therefore falls to me 
to make a finding on this key point.
The CCA makes provision for connected lender liability in specific circumstances, set 
out in section 75. There are several criteria that must be met for a successful claim 
against the creditor (or lender), which include that:
the agreement with the lender is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling 
within section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA
the agreement with the lender is not a non-commercial agreement
the debtor has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, a claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract
that claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price of more than £100 but not more that £30,000
Here, theres no question that the financial limits apply to the transaction. Ms E paid a 
total of £1,228, but no individual item within that total was £100 or less. And Ms Es 
credit agreement with Santander is not a non-commercial agreement; that is, its not 
a consumer credit agreement not made by Santander in the course of its business.
So the remaining questions here are a) whether the agreement with Santander 
meets the definition of a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) of the CCA, and b) whether Ms E has, in relation to the arrangements 
with A, a claim against A in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Section 12(b) of the CCA says that a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement being a restricted-use credit agreement which 
falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing 
arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the 
supplier. And section 11(1)(b) says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement to finance a transaction between the debtor 
and a person (the supplier) other than the creditor
Ms Es agreement with Santander is a regulated consumer credit agreement. It was 
used to finance the transaction she was undertaking with A. But the payment was 
made to C. Santander said that broke the necessary chain. Our investigator found a 
link via Companies House records. He noted that A and C ultimately had controlling 
directors that appeared to meet the definition of associates as defined in section 
184 of the CCA, which also created an association between the corporate bodies A 
and C.
Section 187 of the CCA covers arrangements between creditor and supplier. It says:
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-
existing arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in 
accordance with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
Subsection (4) says the persons referred to in subsection (1) are:
(a) the creditor and the supplier;
(b) one of them and an associate of the others;
(c) an associate of one and an associate of the others.
Given the associate connection established between A and C via the Companies 
House information, Im satisfied that the way section 187 operates preserves the pre-
existing arrangements link between Ms E, Santander and A, notwithstanding the 
involvement of C as the person to whom payment was made. As such, I find that this 
aspect of the section 75 requirement is met.
Although Santander reached a different conclusion in respect of the debtor-creditor-
supplier arrangements, it went on to set out its view on whether there had been a 
breach of contract anyway. This conclusion forms part of its reasons for declining Ms 
Es claim. Our investigator did express a view on this point, but concluded that a 
breach of contract claim would not be successful. Ive no persuasive reason to reach 
a different conclusion from Santander or our investigator in relation to whether A 
breached its agreement with Ms E.
However, that isnt the only grounds under which Ms E might claim against Santander under section 75. She can also seek to claim in misrepresentation, which 
is really the basis in which her main arguments are founded. Ms E argues that the 
rights acquired by A when it purchased them from B were no greater than the rights 
B itself held. She says A sought to impose a further condition on the release of the 
motorhome that was not afforded it by the original agreement, but that A held itself 
out as having the right to do so. That, claims Ms E, amounts to a misrepresentation 
by A that induced her to enter into the agreement with A and make the payment that 
she did. I find that this aspect of the section 75 criteria is also met.
Santander hasnt set out its position in terms of a defence to a misrepresentation 
claim. It might not have contemplated this given its stated position in terms of the 
debtor-creditor- supplier agreement. But given that it did offer a view on whether 
there had been a breach of contract, Im satisfied the misrepresentation claim was 
within the ambit of the banks reasonable considerations.
I have to conclude that in reaching the conclusion it did in respect of the debtor-
creditor- supplier arrangements and failing to address this key aspect of Ms Es 
claim, Santander did not act fairly towards her.
Ive gone on to consider how Santanders response affected Ms Es position. It's 
apparent that Ms E was inconvenienced by the way Santander declined to look at her 
underlying claim, beyond its initial conclusions that there was no breach of contract 
and that section 75 didnt apply. In light of the trouble shes been put to in this 
respect, Im minded to award compensation, which I assess at £150.
Im further inclined to say that Ms E presented to Santander a reasonable set of 
arguments in terms of misrepresentation by A. Her submissions include a letter from 
Bs administrators, which includes the following:
Under the terms of the sale agreement
the purchaser is obliged to seek the consent of the CM (chattel 
mortgage) Holders to keep CM Vehicles in their possession
If the CM Holder does not wish to sell the CM Vehicle or otherwise make 
it available to the purchaser, then the purchaser is obliged to forthwith 
deliver the CM Vehicle up to them for no charge, save in circumstances 
where it does not have control of the CM motorhome
The administrators letter indicates that the agreements A purchased from B provided 
that the mortgaged property (as I understand it, the motorhome and among other 
things, any fixed additions or accessories) should be delivered up to Ms E without at 
least some of the charges A held out as having the right to collect.
Im conscious our investigator didnt think what A had said amounted to 
misrepresentation, notwithstanding his finding that A had undoubtedly misled Ms E. 
That isnt an argument Santander has put forward, and based on the evidence Ive 
seen, its by no means certain that such a distinction ought to apply in Ms Es case. 
While she might have doubted As right to charge the fees, I think that falls rather 
short of my being able to say that she wasnt induced to enter into the contract on 
this basis, or indeed other representations by A, such as the suggestion it held power 
not to release the motorhome unless she paid.
With this in mind, I am inclined to decide that if Santander had received and properly 
considered Ms Es claim in misrepresentation, there was a reasonable prospect that 
it would have agreed to meet her claim. So I consider it appropriate to require 
Santander to reimburse the £1,228 she paid A, with suitable interest to reflect the 
time shes been without the use of her funds.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
Both Santander and Ms E responded seeking clarification of the proposed redress, which I 
provided to them. Neither party has raised any additional points or query my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Ms E nor Santander had anything to add to the findings set out 
in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding Ms Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Santander UK Plc must take the following 
steps, no more than 28 days after it receives Ms Es acceptance of this decision:
1. pay Ms E £1,228, together with annual interest at 8% simple from 19 March 2020 
(being the date Ms E repaid the credit card transaction on her account) to the date 
Santander settles the claim. If Santander deducts tax from the interest element of my 
award, it should confirm to Ms E that it has done so and provide her with the relevant 
tax deduction certificate
2. pay Ms E £150 for her distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman