DRN-1734099
 
Complaint          
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Lloyds and were sold the PPI in connection with this 
mortgage in 1996.
Although the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI only covered Mr M. It would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr M was eligible for the policy. And based on Mr Ms 
age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr M would have been eligible.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs M say they werent given a 
choice about taking PPI and it was described as something they had to have. Lloyds 
disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily in such cases I would look to 
the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have 
happened. But unfortunately Lloyds no longer have all the documents from the time of sale. 
However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale, so I cant hold this 
against Lloyds. But what it does mean is that I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to 
conclude that the PPI wasnt presented as optional or that Mr and Mrs M didnt choose to 
take it out. Particularly given that the documents I have seen dont present the policy as 
compulsory. For example, the mortgage application form states that buildings insurance is 
compulsory but does not mention anything about PPI being compulsory. And the special conditions on the mortgage offer make no mention of PPI being compulsory either. I also 
note that Mr and Mrs M took out further advances but PPI wasnt attached to these.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs M to take PPI. This means they would have had to 
take adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. I dont know whether 
they took all the steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for them. I say this because:
 
Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms common in PPI policies 
which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy. 
 
Although Mr M has told us he wouldve been entitled to pay from his employer if he 
was off work sick, the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
a much longer period of time. It would also have paid out if he lost his job. The 
mortgage was a long term commitment and repeated claims under the policy would 
have been possible.
 
Mr M has mentioned he would have had savings at the time of the sale. But there is  
no guarantee that the savings would still have been available if/when the need arose. 
In any event Mr and Mrs M could have used the savings for other essential living 
expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage repayments.
 
Mr and Mrs M could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer needed or wanted it.
 
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M, Lloyds also had to give 
them clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether 
or not to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the 
policy.
It's possible that Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs M all of the information as they should have. 
But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them. Which means Lloyds dont have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so they should have told Mr and Mrs M about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Lloyds have paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC do not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC do have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share 
they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman