DRN-3940438
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has failed to refund over 
£16,000 he lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on providing the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallet from his Nationwide account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers Chase Capital Online from his crypto wallet). The payments were 
requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Nationwide, and 
the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Nationwide should have done more to prevent Mr S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr S has lost over £16,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It was 
spread over six separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ss spending 
history. I can see from Mr Ss statements that he had made much larger payments in the 
past than any of those he made as part of the scam. So, I dont think there was any 
reason for them to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have 
been at risk of falling victim to a scam. Therefore, Im not persuaded there was anything 
that ought reasonably to have triggered Nationwides fraud monitoring systems. 
I appreciate that Mr S did call and speak to Nationwide on 7 February 2022 to ask about 
Chase Capital Online and whether it was legitimate. The call handler explained that the 
merchant was not on its list of registered crypto asset businesses and offered to put him 
through to the fraud team if he wanted to seek further advice, but that he would have to 
wait in a queue. They also said he could review their website which gives further 
information about investing in cryptocurrency. Mr S chose to review Nationwides website 
rather than waiting to speak to its fraud team. And given the payments he was making 
wouldnt have appeared overly unusual or given Nationwide cause for concern, I dont 
think the call handler ought to have insisted on Mr S speaking to the fraud team. 
Nationwide advised Mr S to review their web pages about investing in cryptocurrency 
and offered him the choice of waiting to speak to its fraud team, which I think was 
proportionate in the circumstances. And despite having reviewed the information on 
Nationwides website after having reservations, he still proceeded to make payments to 
the scammer. So, even if he had spoken to the fraud team, it seems doubtful whether 
any scam warning wouldve likely prevented him making further payments in any event, 
and I note the FCA warning about the merchant had not been published at that point 
either.  
Nationwide also offered £100 compensation for not putting Mr S through to its fraud 
team. But given this option was offered to Mr S, Im not persuaded it needs to pay any 
further compensation, and Im satisfied its offer is fair in the circumstances. 
Nationwide are also under no obligation to refund the money Mr S lost under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model either, as the Code only applies to transfers made to 
another person. In this instance, the payments were made to Mr Ss own crypto wallet 
and therefore were not made to another person, meaning the CRM Code would not 
apply.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Nationwide can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman