DRN-4087911
The complaint
Ms M complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited returned funds she held in an account to 
source, and theyve failed to provide confirmation of when they returned those funds.
What happened
Ms M had an account with one of Wirecards agents. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
Wirecard in this decision.
Wirecard froze Ms Ms account in October 2019 to carry out a review. They asked her for 
information about her account activity and a payment she attempted to make. She provided 
some information but refused to provide supporting evidence.
Wirecard completed their review and sent Ms M a letter in April 2020 saying they were 
closing her account and would return the funds in it to source. Since then, Ms M says 
Wirecard havent returned the funds. She says she checked with the account holders 
regularly and their bank statements dont show payments being credited.
There have been two views issued by investigators on Ms Ms complaint. I have only 
summarised the last view since it is the last outcome which was reached.
Our investigator found:
Wirecard could block Ms Ms account to carry out a review to meet their legal and 
regulations.
Wirecard asked Ms M fair questions, but she failed to provide sufficient evidence to 
support what she had said. She hadnt shown her entitlement to the funds in the 
account. Although Wirecard took a long time to complete their review, as Ms M 
hadnt shown her entitlement to the funds it wasnt fair to award her compensation on 
this point.
Wirecard were able to close Ms Ms account the way they did.
Wirecard provided information to Ms M in early April 2020 letting her know the 
amounts they would return and the names of the account holders. They said they 
would return the funds in 10 working days. 
Ms M contacted Wirecard multiple times after this time saying the account holders 
hadnt received the funds. She provided our service with a statement for the account 
of one of the account holders which didnt show funds being recredited around the 
time Wirecard indicated they would be.
Wirecard failed to show proof that they returned the funds to source. Considering the 
amount of communication between Ms M and Wirecard on this matter, their failure 
represents poor customer service. As a result, they should pay Ms M £150 and 
provide her with details of when the funds were returned, the amount returned and to 
whom.
Wirecard agreed to pay the compensation and said they were attempting to get the returned 
payment information. They have yet to provide that information and Ms M says she hasnt 
received her compensation. So, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision on as an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Wirecard have important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing 
accounts. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is 
opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, 
establish the source and purpose of funds in an account, and where possible to 
detect and prevent financial harm and crime.
Wirecard will monitor and review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And 
its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a 
review - doing so helps prevent potential harm that might otherwise result. Ive 
considered the reasonability of Wirecards decision to block Ms Ms account in this 
light, and I find it was fair.
Wirecard should still complete a review in a timely way, and they took a long time in 
the circumstances of this complaint. But I dont find it fair to award compensation for 
the length of time they took given Ms M failed to provide them with the evidence they 
asked for.
Im satisfied Wirecard were able to ask questions of Ms M and for evidence. She may 
have found Wirecards questions intrusive, but their responsibilities are overriding. As 
Ms M failed to provide satisfactory evidence, Wirecard could fairly return the funds in 
her account to source - she had failed to establish her entitlement to them.
Wirecard have the commercial discretion to end a relationship with a customer as 
long as they comply with their terms and conditions. They dont have to reveal the 
reasons behind their decision to block or close an account to a customer, and there 
are often good explanations for this, such as their reasons being commercially 
sensitive. Im satisfied Wirecard acted fairly by closing Ms Ms account for a 
legitimate reason. Im also satisfied they dont need to tell Ms M their reason(s).
Wirecard revealed to Ms M the names of the account holders to whom they would 
return funds and the sums they would return. They offered this information freely, so I 
find it reasonable for them to confirm to Ms M when those payments were made, 
what sums were paid and to which accounts. 
Ms M has gone to some lengths to obtain this information, which is understandable 
given the expectation Wirecard gave her. So, Wirecards failure to provide reliable 
confirmation of the returned payments must have caused her frustration and 
inconvenience. I find £150 is fair compensation to put matters right. 
I was sorry to hear about how Ms M says she was affected, but I dont find larger 
compensation would be reasonable given the context of her failure to supply the 
evidence Wirecard asked for. Neither do I find awarding her compensation equivalent 
to the sum of the payments Wirecard say they returned reasonable given her failure 
to establish her entitlement to those funds.Putting things right
Subject to Ms M accepting this decision Wirecard need to pay her £150 unless they 
have already done so. They must make the payment within 28 calendar days of Ms 
Ms acceptance of this decision being communicated to them. I note Ms M has 
already provided them with her account information to make payment.
They must provide Ms M with confirmation on who they returned the payments to, the 
amount they returned to each account, and when it was returned. This information 
must be provided within 28 days calendar days of Ms Ms acceptance of this decision 
being communicated to them.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman