DRN-4076330
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
for theft under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F contacted AXA to make claim for a burglary. AXA asked for photos of the 
damage and a completed loss list. It then declined the claim because it said there werent 
signs of forced or violent entry. When Mr F and Mrs F complained, AXA maintained its 
decision to decline the claim.
So, Mr F and Mrs F complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said AXA hadnt shown the policy didnt cover the circumstances described. She said AXA 
should reconsider the claim and if it settled it, pay interest on any payments made.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
AXA declined the claim because it said there werent signs of forced or violent entry. Ive 
looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said:
Any claims caused by theft or attempted theft, no cover is provided:
Unless there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to get into the Home or 
violence or deception was used to gain entry
Although AXA has said there was no evidence of force, the policy didnt require there to be 
force, it required signs of damage by the thief  to get into the home. Looking at the 
photos, there are signs of damage, including to the garage door. Im aware AXA looked at 
the photos and didnt think they were enough to show there was a valid claim. But Mrs F 
offered to provide further evidence if the photos were insufficient, such as a report from a 
professional locksmith, and said neither she or the police had been asked for any further 
information. So, I dont think AXA showed that it fairly considered this claim or that it was 
reasonable to decline it.
As a result, I uphold this complaint and require AXA to continue to consider the claim, 
including any further evidence Mr F and Mrs F think would support their claim. If AXA offers 
a cash settlement, it should pay interest on that amount as Mr F and Mrs F lost use of that 
money.
Putting things right
AXA should reconsider the claim in line with the terms of the policy. If it pays a cash 
settlement, AXA should pay interest on that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reconsider the claim under the terms of the policy.
Pay 8% simple interest, if it pays a cash settlement for the claim, from the date on which 
the claim was first made to the date on which the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman