DRN-2167055
The complaint
Mrs Ds complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) was presented by her 
representative as follows:
Zurich recommended an Investment Bond (IB) to her in 1999 and she invested 
£10,000 (out of her £20,000 savings) in it.
The IB was unsuitable for her because it was too risky for her balanced risk profile 
and her inexperience in investments, it consumed half of her capital and she had no 
disposable income at the time of the investment.
Zurich considered Mrs Ds complaint, in 2019, to be out of time. However, a jurisdiction 
decision determined otherwise. Zurich disputes the merits of the complaint.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the merits of the complaint. Over the course of his 
investigation his view changed. Both parties acknowledge that, due to the passage of time, 
there is a lack of documentary evidence related to the circumstances surrounding the advice 
provided to Mrs D in 1999. For this reason, the investigator initially considered it unlikely that 
the merits of the complaint could be properly determined (or upheld). 
Mrs Ds representative then provided partial fact find evidence (from 1999), which appears to 
have been completed by the adviser at the time. This coupled previously submitted 
documentation about the details of the IB. The investigator reviewed the matter, after the 
jurisdiction decision, and concluded mainly as follows:
The complaint should be upheld.
Evidence from the fact find document shows that at the time the IB was 
recommended to Mrs D she was 52 years old (due to retire at age 60), married 
without dependents, a non-UK resident, without disposable income from her self-
employment and without previous investment experience. The fact find also shows 
she had £20,000 in capital and had growth, income or inheritance tax planning 
objectives.
The IB mainly consisted of UK, European and US equities and would have been 
suitable for an investor with a balanced/medium risk profile; but it (and the equities 
within it) represented more risk than would have been appropriate for Mrs D given 
that she had no disposable income, had invested half of her capital in it and does not 
appear to have had the capacity to bear or make up the potential for loss in the IB.
Zurich disagreed with this outcome and questioned why, in the absence of new meaningful 
evidence, it conflicted with the investigators previous view. In response, the investigator 
referred reconsidering the case and to the impact that Mrs Ds lack of capacity for loss had 
on his revised view. Zurich retained its disagreement and mainly said:
Despite the partial fact find evidence, the investigator still cannot safely conclude that 
the complaint should be upheld.
The investigators finding that the IB was suitable for an investor with a balanced risk 
profile matches Mrs Ds representatives description of her risk profile, in 1999, as 
balanced.
The partial fact find evidence is missing pages in which the assessment of Mrs Ds 
risk profile, in 1999, would have been set out. As such, it cannot fairly be said that 
Zurich did not conduct a risk assessment at the time and, without the contents of the 
missing pages, the matter of risk suitability cannot be verified.
The IB matched Mrs Ds objectives and there has been no suggestion that its 
offshore character was unsuitable  to the contrary, it was suitable given that she 
was a non-UK resident and given its associated tax benefits.
Half of her capital was consumed by the IB but the remainder £10,000 was a suitable 
emergency cash reserve for her to retain, especially as her income was sufficient for 
her and she had no mortgage or debt. 
The investigators finding that only a small amount of risk would have been suitable 
for Mrs D conflicts with the finding within the jurisdiction decision that Mrs D was not 
risk averse , that she  appears to have been aware of investment risks  and 
that she appeared to have been  prepared to take some risk in her investment .
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued the jurisdiction decision in this case. However, my considerations in the course of 
doing so were limited to the matter of our jurisdiction. I retain the views, quoted by Zurich, 
that Mrs D was not risk averse, was aware of investment risks and was prepared to take 
some risk in her investment. There is enough available evidence to support these views and 
I do not consider that there is dispute between the parties over them. 
The dispute relates to the extent to which Mrs D wanted to or should have been advised to 
expose herself to investment risk. The jurisdiction decision did not quantify this  it did not 
need to in order to address the jurisdiction question and it referred only to some risk. I 
disagree with Zurichs suggestion that it did or that some risk meant something that differs 
from the investigators reference to a small amount of risk.
I agree with Zurich in terms of the continuing uncertainty over how Mrs Ds risk profile was 
assessed and what it was confirmed as at the time of the 1999 IB investment. There is a lack 
of evidence in this respect. However, the task remains to determine, on balance, what her 
risk profile would have been given her circumstances at the time. This would have been the 
same exercise conducted in 1999.
Based on information available from the partial fact find evidence  and as summarised 
above  Mrs D had no previous investment experience. The fact find document confirms that 
at the time of the advice and despite her age (52 years) and self-employed status she did 
not have a life policy, did not have pension arrangements, did not have an income protection 
policy, did not have a mortgage (or debts) and did not have pre-existing investments. The 
document says she had only a bank account and £20,000 of savings.
There is no evidence that Mrs D determined her own risk profile at the time. What her 
representative has said in this respect  that she was balanced  is no more than a part of 
the complaint submissions presented on her behalf. It is not evidence of what she presented 
herself as in 1999. In the absence of such risk profile self-assessment, I do not consider that the adviser in 1999 could reasonably have concluded from the above summary that Mrs D 
had a balanced risk profile. Mrs D was indeed prepared to take some risk but, on balance, I 
am not persuaded she would have amounted to a balanced/medium risk taker. I draw this 
conclusion based on her lack of investment experience and her financial capacity.
Mrs Ds capacity for loss was relevant to the suitability of the IB, or any investment she made 
at the time. She had a total of £20,000 and exposed half of that to investment risks. Given 
her lack of investment experience, I do not consider it would have been suitable to expose 
that half to too much risk. She lacked disposable income. She also does not appear to have 
had any liquid wealth (besides the £10,000 cash reserve) that could have created capacity to 
cater for the potential for losses from an IB based mainly on equities.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Mrs Ds circumstances in 1999 would have given her 
a cautious risk profile, that she was an inexperienced investor and that her capacity for loss 
would have been notably limited; the IB mismatched these elements.
Putting things right
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Mrs D as close as I can to the position she 
would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice. I take the view that, 
but for the recommendation to invest in the IB, she would have behaved differently. It is not 
possible to say precisely what she would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair given her circumstances and objectives at the time.
what must Zurich do?
To compensate Mrs D fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of the IB with that of the benchmark shown below and pay 
her compensation in the form of the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay her interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide her with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mrs Ds 
Investment 
Bondsurrenderedfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
surrender 8% simple per 
year from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Zurich should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if Zurich totals all of those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs D wanted growth and income; and had capacity for a small level of risk to her 
capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs Ds risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objective. The 50/50 
combination above would reasonably put her into that position and it broadly reflects 
the sort of return she could have obtained from an investment suited to her profile.
The additional interest is to compensate Mrs D for being deprived of the resulting 
redress amount from the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I order Zurich Assurance Ltd to 
carry out redress to her as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman