DRN-3827340
The complaint
Mr Hs representative complains that the value of his ISA decreased significantly after it was 
transferred to Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity). 
Mr Hs representative also complains about the delays and poor service that she and Mr H 
experienced. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr Hs ISA was transferred to Fidelity. Some time after the transfer Mr Hs 
representative noted that Mr Hs ISA had fallen in value. She contacted Fidelity in April 2022 
about the fall in the value of Mr Hs ISA. Fidelity explained that it was not responsible for the 
performance of Mr Hs investment, as it was not the fund manager. It also said that it 
wouldnt be able to provide Mr H with financial advice as he was above the maximum age for 
its advice service.
Mr Hs representative decided to encash Mr Hs ISA and the money was transferred to 
another provider. She remained unhappy with the fall in the value of Mr Hs ISA and the poor 
service she felt Fidelity had provided.
Fidelity did not uphold the complaint. It reiterated that it was not responsible for the 
performance of the fund Mr H was invested in and it also addressed points Mr Hs 
representative had made about forward pricing.
Mr Hs representative wasnt satisfied with Fidelitys response and referred the complaint to 
this service. 
Having carefully considered this complaint our investigator said she was satisfied that 
Fidelity had treated Mr H fairly. She noted the points Mr Hs representative had made about 
Mr Hs age and ill health, and she said she appreciated why Mr Hs representative felt this 
meant there should have been a greater responsibility on Fidelity. But she explained that 
there was no requirement on Fidelity to provide advice to Mr H. She also said she had 
reviewed the call notes for the conversations Mr Hs representative had with Fidelity and was 
unable to find anything to show or suggest that it had provided incorrect information or poor 
service during these calls. 
Mr Hs representative did not accept our investigators view. She said, in summary that Mr H 
had been in very poor health at the time the transfer took place. In light of Mr Hs age and 
poor health his representative said:
I believe this transfer should not have taken place without him receiving appropriate financial 
advice I understand this ISA to be a long term high risk investment and therefore was no 
longer suitable for his circumstances.
Mr Hs representative also said that the delay in providing information about the ISA in April 
and May 2022 had caused Mr H distress, and she felt the value of his ISA had reduced 
substantially due to these delays. She noted that information that had been requested about 
different funds available to Mr H had not been received until after he had transferred his ISA 
to a different provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Hs position, and I have carefully considered everything that has 
been said and provided in connection with this complaint. In order to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Fidelity had acted incorrectly or treated Mr H 
unfairly. Having considered all the evidence and information I dont think Fidelity has acted 
incorrectly or unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs representative says she doesnt think the transfer to Fidelity should have gone ahead 
until Mr H had received appropriate financial advice and she thinks the fund Mr H was 
invested in was no longer suitable for his circumstances. 
It is not in dispute that Mr H may have benefitted from a review of the investment he held in 
his ISA, particularly given his age and ill health. But there was no requirement on Fidelity to 
offer or provide advice on the fund Mr H was invested in. 
In the key facts document sent to Mr H before the transfer, Fidelity clearly set out under the 
heading Important Information:
Please note this information is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. 
We are not required to assess the suitability of the investments you choose when you invest 
with us...This means you do not benefit from the protection of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys rules on assessing suitability. If you are in any doubt about the suitability of any 
particular investment or service, we recommend that you contact a financial adviser.
I do appreciate why Mr Hs representative feels he would have benefited from advice before 
the transfer to Fidelity went ahead, but Fidelity was not required to provide advice or ensure 
that Mr H took advice. I am satisfied that Fidelity made this clear in the information it sent to 
Mr H.  It also explained that if he was unsure about the suitability of his ISA, he might wish to 
contact a financial adviser.
Mr Hs representative has explained that at the time of the transfer Mr H was suffering from 
ill health. I appreciate Mr Hs representatives concern, but I havent seen anything that 
shows or suggests that Fidelity was aware at the time of the transfer that Mr H was unwell or 
might be having trouble deciding whether to proceed with the transfer. In the absence of 
anything to show Fidelity was aware that Mr H might benefit from additional support I cant 
reasonably find that it acted incorrectly or treated Mr H unfairly. 
Mr Hs representative has also said that the delay in providing information about the ISA in 
April and May 2022 caused Mr H distress and she feels the value of Mr Hs ISA reduced 
substantially due to these delays. I have carefully considered this aspect of Mr Hs 
complaint. 
It is very unfortunate that information Mr Hs representative had requested about other funds 
wasnt received promptly, but I am mindful that this information was available on Fidelitys 
website together with a step by step guide to selecting a fund based on the risk profile of the 
funds available. I must also take into account that when Mr Hs representative telephoned 
Fidelity she was able to obtain an up-to-date valuation for his ISA. As this is the case, I cant 
reasonably find that any delay in receiving information by post resulted in the value of Mr Hs ISA holdings falling in value.
It is always disappointing when an investment falls in value or does not perform as well as 
expected, but having very carefully considered the information available I cant reasonably 
hold Fidelity responsible for the fall in the value of Mr Hs ISA. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I cannot uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman