DRN-4412493
The complaint
Ms P complains that she couldnt download BUPA Insurance Limiteds (Bupas) application 
(app) to access her private medical insurance cover on her mobile. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Bupa provides the app, but this needs to be installed through a third-party app store, 
which isnt unusual. Whilst its unfortunate that Ms P had problems gaining access to 
the app store on her mobile, Bupa wasnt responsible for this.
Ms P has explained that she had to wait a long time when she tried calling Bupas 
digital team for help and support. I can appreciate why she would have found this 
frustrating. Though Bupa has apologised for this, which I think was reasonable. 
I see that once Ms P got through to Bupa, she was told that someone from the digital 
team would call her back. Bupa told this Service the attempt to call Ms P back wasnt 
successful. We asked it for evidence of this, and it provided its contact notes which 
say that four outbound calls were made, but there was a voicemail each time. Im 
satisfied from this that Bupa did make attempts to call Ms P back. 
As our investigator has explained, although Ms P couldnt install the app, this hasnt 
prevented her from using her private medical insurance policy. Although I appreciate 
the app does provide a digital GP service, this is an added benefit provided by Bupa 
and doesnt form part of the insurance contract.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Ps frustration, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman