DRN-1541927
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Bank of Scotland plc(BoS) treating him following a request for 
financial advice.
What happened
Mr M says he received £200,000 in March 2019 following retirement and wanted 
financial advice from BoS about the money. He says he made an appointment at a branch 
which he assumed was with a financial advisor but was it was not. He was also told BoS's 
policy was that it wouldn't look at investments under £250,000 and was offered a phone 
consultation. Mr M says that is a class based process which he is offended by and would like 
BoS to reassess that policy. He says he did receive telephone contact from BoS but not from 
the correct person and says he has invested some of his money with a different business 
which has meant a loss of interest.
Mr M says he would like an apology and help from BoS in managing the money. He would 
also like it to reimburse the loss of interest.
BoS says its policy is that a customer needs to invest £250,000 in order to qualify for a 
private manger. It says Mr M can have a meeting with a financial advisor regardless of the 
amount to be invested. BoS has apologised for the telephone call, that ought to have been 
from a financial advisor.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought BoS policy was that a customer needed to invest a minimum of £250,000 to be 
eligible for advice from a private manager and that we are not the regulator of BoS. The 
investigator also thought BoS had apologised for the telephone call in which Mr M was 
expecting to speak to a financial advisor.
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says the policy is class based, and he still hasn't received 
the financial advice he wanted or contact from BoS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by 
my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about BoS's policy and what has taken 
place.
I make clear to Mr M that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. So it's not 
our role to decide if business policies are appropriate or tell a business how it runs its 
business. I appreciate that Mr M says BoS's investment policy is class based and offended 
him. But for the reasons I have explained I think such matters are for BoS to decide upon 
when exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. We do not have the power to tell BoS to change that policy.
There is no doubt BoS did make a mistake when a financial advisor didn't call Mr M. I have 
sure that would have caused Mr M inconvenience and frustration. But I can see that BoS has 
fairly apologised for that mistake. I also think that BoS has told Mr M that he can speak to 
one of its financial advisors and provided that information in its response letter to him.
Overall I'm satisfied that for the reasons I have explained that Mr M's main part of his 
complaint is about matters we don't have the authority to look into.I also think that it's up to 
BoS if it provides advice to its customers and that it told Mr M to contact it for an 
appointment in its final response letter. Its not clear if Mr M has made such contact since that 
letter.
As I don't think BoS has made a mistake or acted unfairly then I can order it to 
reimburse any loss of interest Mr M may have incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman