DRN-4266685
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (Ecclesiastical) has partially declined
a claim she made under her Art and Private Client Insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D has an Art and Private Client Insurance policy underwritten by Ecclesiastical. This
covers, amongst other things, damage caused to Miss Ds property.
In August 2022, a ceiling in part of Miss Ds property that is let to a tenant collapsed, so she
contacted Ecclesiastical to make a claim under her policy.
Ultimately Ecclesiastical declined to cover the cost of the ceiling repairs as they said the
likely cause was wear and tear and gradual deterioration over time, which is an exclusion
under Miss Ds policy. However, Ecclesiastical agreed to cover the resultant damage to the
contents and dcor.
Miss D also asked for loss of rent to be paid by Ecclesiastical, as she didnt charge her
tenant rent whilst awaiting repair of the damage. However, Ecclesiastical also declined to
cover loss of rent on the basis they say the property wasnt uninhabitable.
As Miss D was unhappy with Ecclesiasticals position, she asked this service to consider her
complaint.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said he wasnt satisfied
Ecclesiastical had sufficiently demonstrated the exclusion applied, so he said they should
pay Miss D the cost of repairing her ceiling with 8% interest added and also pay £200
compensation.
Ecclesiastical didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings, before I reach 
my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive provisionally reached a 
different outcome to our investigator about the ceiling part of the claim. And Ive also 
considered the loss of rent part of the claim, which our investigator didnt consider or 
reach a finding on. So, Im issuing a provisional decision, to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my initial findings on both points before I reach my final 
decision.
The ceiling damage
Miss D has an all risk policy with Ecclesiastical. What this means is that the policy 
covers any damage which may occur unless its specifically excluded.
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Damage
means physical loss, destruction or damage.
The ceiling collapsed, so its clear damage has occurred. Therefore, in principle, there 
is an insured event. However, the policy also contains a number of exclusions. And 
its for Ecclesiastical to show an exclusion applies in order to decline a claim for 
damage.
Ecclesiastical says the following exclusion in the policy applies:
General exclusions
Whilst we aim to make our policy comprehensive, there are certain things we 
do not insure. Each section contains exclusions specific to it. The following 
apply to all sections of the policy unless stated otherwise.
This policy does not cover
4 Uninsurable risks
We will not cover the following:

- Damage caused by wear and tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions 
(other than storm or flood) frost, rot, fungus, inherent vice, latent 
defect, insects, vermin or any gradual cause;
When considering if Ecclesiastical has fairly declined the damage claim, I need to 
consider whether they have sufficiently shown the exclusion applies. Our investigator 
didnt think Ecclesiastical had. However, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Miss D, Im minded to conclude, on balance, that they have. Ill 
explain why.Miss Ds property is several hundred years old. The ceiling that collapsed is of a 
lathe, plaster and reed construction. 
Ecclesiastical appointed a loss adjuster (after initially declining the claim and Miss D 
requesting someone inspect the damage), and Miss D appointed contractor, to 
comment on the cause of the ceiling collapse.
However, neither the loss adjuster nor Miss Ds contractor has been able to 
determine with certainty the cause of the ceiling collapse.
My role here isnt to determine the exact cause of the collapse, this would be the role 
of the experts appointed by both parties. However, here in this case, none of the 
experts appointed have been able to determine this.
On this basis, Ecclesiastical has considered what they think is most likely, on the 
balance of probabilities, to have happened, and they say the likely cause is wear and 
tear gradually over time - which is excluded under Miss Ds policy. And having 
considered all the information provided, on balance, Im minded to conclude  
Ecclesiastical has reached a reasonable conclusion. Ill explain why.
None of the parties that have inspected the ceiling and damage have identified any 
signs of a visible cause of the collapse. There are no pipes in the surrounding area, 
and no visible signs of any leaks, or water ingress or staining, which ordinarily you 
might expect to see where a ceiling has collapsed.
There has also been no evidence or signs of excessive vibration or movement in the 
ceiling which may have caused it to collapse either.
And the information on file says that Miss Ds contractor said its possible a joist 
failed in the lathe and plaster ceiling causing the collapse, but they werent sure, and 
there was no obvious cause of why this could happen, either impact, water ingress, 
or another cause.
So, in the absence of an obvious cause of damage, it has been concluded by 
Ecclesiastical that the most likely cause is wear and tear and gradual deterioration 
over time as there is no other explanation.
Im inclined to agree with Ecclesiastical here, on balance, based on all the evidence
provided. I say this because lathe and plaster ceilings are prone to collapse over time 
due to wear and tear and gradual deterioration. This is because of the brittle nature 
of the plaster. The ceiling is held in position by nibs which wrap around lathes and 
hold it in place. Over time, and by virtue of age, these can deteriorate and break 
away to the point that there isnt enough remaining to hold the ceiling weight, which 
then results in the lathe and plaster ceiling collapsing. And this deterioration occurs 
gradually over time until the ultimate point of the collapse. I also understand that 
there was a heavy chandelier hanging from the ceiling, which likely could have 
exacerbated this.Having seen images of the collapsed ceiling, I think these support the above on 
balance too. I say this because the ceiling has collapsed across the entire room, right 
to the edges where the walls are. If there was a localised problem, such as a leak, 
impact, or water ingress, Id expect the collapse to be in a more isolated, or localised 
area. But instead, the entire ceiling collapsed in a large area across the room, in my 
view, supporting the fact that it failed when there was no longer enough supporting 
the weight of it. And this, on balance, would have happened due to wear and tear 
and deterioration gradually over time.
So, whilst I cant conclude with absolute certainty what caused the collapse (and 
neither can the experts appointed by both parties), Im persuaded on balance, based 
on the evidence provided, that this was the most likely cause. Consequently, Im 
minded to conclude Ecclesiastical has acted reasonably by declining this part of the 
claim based on the gradual and wear and tear exclusion.
We sometimes do say that if a policyholder was unaware of gradual damage 
occurring, such as a hidden leak causing damage behind a wall, and the policyholder 
couldnt have been aware the damage was being caused, and did something as soon 
as they were, that it might not be fair or reasonable for an insurer to apply a gradual 
damage exclusion. However, this approach is only taken where it is a standard 
perils policy which covers specific insured events such as storm, fire or flood.
With all risks policies, which is what Miss D has, we have a slightly different 
approach. In these cases, we usually say someone with an all risks policy shouldnt 
be worse off than someone with a standard perils policy if they were both in the 
same situation. So, to put it a different way, it might be unfair for an insurer to turn 
down a claim using a gradual damage exclusion, if the consumer wasnt aware the 
damage was happening, and it would have been covered under a standard perils 
policy by applying this approach.
However, in Miss Ds case, theres no evidence a peril which would usually be 
covered under a standard insurance policy (such as storm or escape of water) has 
happened, as no one has been able to identify a specific event which caused the 
collapse. And as outlined above, on balance, Im persuaded it is gradual deterioration 
and wear and tear, which usually wouldnt be covered as a peril under a standard 
policy. So, Miss D is no worse off than someone with a standard policy in the same 
position.
I do note Miss D has purchased her insurance policy at a significant cost, and that
Ecclesiastical were already aware the property is several hundred years old. But this 
doesnt mean that anything that happens to the property is covered under Miss Ds 
policy regardless, instead it covers damage which may occur, but subject to the 
policy exclusions. And for the reasons outlined, Im minded to conclude Ecclesiastical 
has reasonably, on balance, shown that an exclusion applies here.
As the internal damage to the dcor and contents has been accepted by 
Ecclesiastical and isnt in dispute, I dont need to make a decision on that part of the 
claim here.
Loss of rent
Our investigator didnt reach a finding on this part of the claim or complaint, but this is
something raised by Miss D and considered and declined by Ecclesiastical. So, Ill 
also be considering this here.The ceiling collapse was in the part of Miss Ds property let to a tenant, and in the 
lounge area. The collapse was substantial in terms of the debris it caused. Miss D 
didnt think it would be fair to charge her tenant rent, which amounted to £1,800 per 
month, for the time they had to live with the damage whilst awaiting repairs.
Miss Ds policy with Ecclesiastical does provide loss of rent cover in certain 
situations:
Temporary accommodation and loss of rent
1. If your home cannot be lived in following damage insured under this 
section, we will pay for:

d. loss of any rent you would have been paid.
Ecclesiastical has accepted the damage to dcor and contents, even though the 
ceiling damage was declined, so in principle there could be a claim made for loss of 
rent subject to it meeting the remaining requirements.
However, Ecclesiastical said the property wasnt uninhabitable  not able to be lived 
in  as the tenant still had bedroom, kitchen and bathroom facilities, as the collapse 
was isolated to the lounge. So, they said this section of cover wouldnt apply and 
declined this part of Miss Ds claim.
I do appreciate the tenant would have been inconvenienced by not being able to use 
the lounge, but as they still had access to the kitchen, bathroom and bedroom, I 
wouldnt consider the property uninhabitable. Therefore, as loss of rent is only 
covered where the property is deemed uninhabitable, Im minded to conclude 
Ecclesiastical has acted fairly by declining this part of Miss Ds claim.
So, having considered everything, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ecclesiastical said they had no comments to make in response to the provisional decision.
Miss D responded but she didnt agree with the provisional decision. She said she should be 
permitted to appoint an expert to provide a report on the cause of the damage. Miss D also 
said she is surprised that the outcome is different to that reached by the investigator  which 
she agreed with.
In addition, Miss D says she has an all risk policy with some exclusions and the cause of 
damage hasnt been determined, so she says the damage should be covered. She also said 
Ecclesiastical carried out a survey when she took out the policy, and if lathe and plaster 
ceilings were going to be excluded, then she would have expected this to be specifically 
excluded in her policy terms. Miss D also says Ecclesiastical has failed to show the 
exclusion applies and therefore her claim should be covered.
Miss D also says two thirds of the ceiling remained intact, so it didnt collapse across the 
entire room and she provided images of the ceiling. Miss D also says she didnt appoint a 
contractor to comment on the ceiling, it was a builder instead, who isnt an expert in this field.In response to the loss of rent part of the provisional decision, Miss D says her tenant wasnt 
able to use the kitchen due to dust in it, and it wasnt until she made a claim for this that she 
was told it wouldnt be covered as the tenant had access to the remainder of the property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and the 
responses to it. Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Miss D, 
my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
Miss D has said she should be permitted to appoint an expert to determine the cause of 
damage and be able to provide this new information for consideration. To clarify, Miss D is 
able to obtain new information from an expert on the cause of damage if she chooses to. 
And once shes obtained this, she should submit this new information to Ecclesiastical for 
consideration. Once Ecclesiastical has considered this, and if Miss D remains unhappy with 
the decision Ecclesiastical ultimately reaches, we may then be able to consider that new 
information and Ecclesiasticals response to it as a new separate complaint. But that would 
be separate to this case, as Ecclesiastical would need the opportunity to consider the new 
information in the first instance before we could consider it.
Miss D has also said she is surprised the outcome is different to our investigators, as she 
agreed with their outcome. Our investigators consider the complaint and issue their opinion 
on the case. If either party disagrees with the outcome reached, an ombudsman can review 
the case afresh for a final decision. As Ecclesiastical didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion of the case, it was passed to me to consider afresh, and independently of the 
investigators review, for a final decision.
 
Miss D maintains that as the cause of damage hasnt been determined with certainty, as the 
policy is all risk, then her claim should be covered. I considered the type of policy Miss D 
has when reaching my provisional decision, and I explained why I was persuaded, on 
balance, that the exclusion applied here. Nothing that has been provided in response to my 
provisional decision has led me to reach a different position on this point, so my final 
decision remains the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
I recognise Miss Ds property was inspected by Ecclesiastical prior to policy inception. But I 
dont share her view that Ecclesiastical should have added an exclusion for lathe and plaster 
ceilings specifically. The ceilings are covered for damage which occurs, unless an exclusion 
means the claim isnt covered. And Im satisfied, on balance, that its reasonable for 
Ecclesiastical to apply the exclusion for the reasons outlined.
Miss D says the entire ceiling didnt collapse, and instead only a portion of the ceiling did, 
and she provided images of this. I have already seen images of the ceiling collapse, and 
these were taken into account when reaching my provisional decision. But to clarify, where I 
said the ceiling collapsed across the entire room, to the edges where the walls are, this was 
on the basis of across the width of the room, in one large section, rather than the length and 
the ceiling in its entirety. And as I said in my provisional decision, if there was a localised 
problem such as a leak, impact or water ingress, Id have expected the collapse to have 
been in a more localised or isolated area rather than wall to wall, across the room, in one 
large section.I also recognise that Miss D has said she didnt appoint a contractor, and it was a builder 
instead who isnt a specialist in this field. But regardless of this, Im persuaded on balance, 
based on all the information Ive seen, that its reasonable for Ecclesiastical to apply the 
exclusion for the reasons Ive already outlined.
So, for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision and above, on balance, I think 
Ecclesiastical has acted fairly and reasonably by applying the exclusion and declining this 
part of Miss Ds claim.
In response to the loss of rent part of the claim, Miss D has said the kitchen couldnt be used 
by the tenant at the time due to dust. So, she says that the loss of rent under her policy 
should apply.
However, I outlined the policy terms when loss of rent would apply in my provisional 
decision. And the fact here is that the tenant didnt vacate the property, they continued living 
there, so the property wasnt uninhabitable. And the tenant didnt stop paying rent because 
they had to live elsewhere, and Miss D also didnt have to pay for them to be housed 
elsewhere either, as the tenant remained in the property. Instead, Miss D decided not to 
charge them rent, but not because they couldnt live there, rather to take into account the 
inconvenience they incurred whilst they remained in the property. 
With the above in mind, Im satisfied the loss of rent part of the policy doesnt apply, so Im 
not going to direct Ecclesiastical to pay Miss D the amount of money she decided not to 
charge her tenant.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman