DRN-2021064
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, rejected a claim he made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and also refused to 
process a chargeback request.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the circumstances of this complaint but unfortunately Im not able 
to uphold it and I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
section 75 
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr O made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. But here whilst Mr O had a contractual relationship with Halifax (the creditor) he 
didnt have a contractual relationship with the course provider (the supplier) as he was 
paying for a course for his friend. It was his friend who had the relationship and had formed a 
contract with the supplier.
So, I dont think Halifax were wrong to reject the section 75 claim as the necessary debtor, 
creditor supplier link could not be established.
chargeback
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules (Mastercard in this case).
One of the rules is that a chargeback must be made within 120 days of the transaction 
although in some circumstances that can be extended to 540 days. 
Unfortunately, in Mr Os case his chargeback exceeded 540 days and Halifax were therefore 
unable to process it.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest Halifax did anything wrong and overall, 
Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman