DRN-2180362
The complaint
Miss B, who is represented by a third party, says she was mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a store card in December 2003. She says she felt pressured into 
taking out the PPI.
 
The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a change in 
the company which is now responsible for answering these types of complaint. The 
company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer to AXA 
throughout this final decision.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Miss B disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate she will be
disappointed, so Ill explain carefully why this is.
Ive seen that Miss B says she took out the PPI by phone, but AXAs  been able to 
provide us with a copy of the application form she filled in when she applied for the card. 
Weve seen a number of very similar PPI sales with the same retailer from around this 
time. Weve also spoken at length to the companies involved to gain an understanding of 
the processes that were generally used. We know, for example, that this type of 
application was part of a wider leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI 
were included in what the applicant was given to complete.
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA needed only to provide enough 
clear information for Miss B to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI cover. I think  
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI in a better way, but overall, I think 
its likely that Miss B would still have gone ahead and bought the policy anyway. 
On the form and credit agreement Miss B filled out theres a section about PPI. Miss B 
was invited to sign her name in a box to buy the PPI cover, which she did. She could have 
left it blank in which case PPI would not have  been added. There was an indication that 
there would be a cost involved as the form said that the monthly premium would be added 
to Miss Bs new card account. Miss B signed at this point and therefore agreed to the PPI.
And whilst Ive seen that Miss B says she was pressured to take the policy, I havent 
seen any evidence that suggests to me that the sale of the PPI happened that way. I 
also think its important to keep in mind that being told that its a good idea to take out 
PPI cover  which is often the case in situations like this  isnt the same as being 
pressured to have it. 
Miss B was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend 
to see in some of these policies. Miss B also told us about some employer benefits she 
was entitled to. Its not clear how much but given that its unlikely to have been more than 
6 months at full pay given what we know about her work, the PPI would still have been of 
use to her. 
The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive  costing £1.50 each month for every 
£100 that was owed on the card - but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection 
than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the 
PPI would have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she 
returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have 
been in addition to any other means Miss B had in place at the time. And whilst Ive seen 
that Miss B has told us she had some savings, having the cover meant she wouldnt have 
to dig into these or other financial resources if she needed to. Miss B also told us that her 
husband would have helped out if she had difficulty in meeting her card repayments, but 
such help very much depends on personal circumstances which can easily change. 
I recognise it is a difficult time for consumers and Im really sorry to have to give Miss B this 
news. But I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman