DRN-4256472
The complaint
Mr L complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L applied for a loan with 118 118 Money. 118 118 Money approved the application and 
gave Mr L a loan.
Mr L complained that 118 118 Money lent to him irresponsibly. 118 118 Money didnt uphold 
the complaint. it said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Mr L.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt upholding the complaint. I 
explained that before agreeing to lend, 118 118 Money needed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr L could afford to repay what was being lent to him in 
a sustainable way. I noted that although 118 118 Money had said in its final response that it 
had carried out proportionate checks, it hadnt responded to a request from this service to 
provide further information about the checks it had carried out. I said that because of this, I 
couldnt be certain whether 118 118 had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
I went on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown. I 
explained that in order to do this, I needed to see Mr Ls bank statements or credit report for 
the period leading up to the lending decision. Mr L had said that the loan wasnt affordable 
for him, but he didnt provide any information about his financial circumstances at the time of 
the application. So, I wasnt able to assess whether Mr L was likely to be able to sustainably 
afford the loan. Because of the lack of information, I wasnt able to conclude that the lending 
decision was unfair.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. I havent seen any further 
information which has persuaded me to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman