DRN-1383895
 
complaint
Mr J says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. For simplicity, Ill refer to the business as Santander for 
the majority of the rest of this decision.
background
Mr J took out a regular premium PPI policy with a loan in 2002. He paid a monthly amount 
for the policy, which provided cover if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case. 
Ive first looked at whether Santander gained Mr Js consent and whether it made clear that 
the policy was optional. Mr Js representatives have said Mr J was told he had to take the 
PPI to get the loan. Santander has provided a sample copy of the loan application form. In 
section 10 it has a Yes or a No box for Mr J to tick to accept or decline PPI. The 
subsequent credit agreement shows that Mr J had requested PPI. And Santander has 
provided the separate section of the credit agreement about the PPI which describes the 
cover as Optional. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, 
and whilst acknowledging that things could have happened in just the way Mr J said, based 
on all the submissions made to me in this case, I think its more likely that Santander made 
Mr J aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr J so it had to check if it was right for him. And from 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time of the sale, I think it was. I explain below why 
I say this.
Mr J was eligible for PPI. And I cant see that he would have been affected by any of its main 
restrictions and limitations. For example, he didnt have any unusual work arrangements or 
pre-existing medical issues. 
I think Mr J had a need for the policy. I say this because whilst Mr J told us he had good sick 
pay initially, I note that it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr J told us he had no 
other means he could rely on, in the event of long term ill health, or if he lost his job. The 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr J lost his job, or until the end of the loan 
term if Mr J was ill for a long time and this would have been in addition to whatever sick pay arrangements Mr J enjoyed. So, thinking about all of this, I think the PPI could have been 
useful to Mr J. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable.
As well as a suitable recommendation, Santander had to give Mr J enough information, so 
he could decide if he wanted the PPI. Its possible that Santander did not give Mr J all the 
information they should have. But for the same reasons given above that made me think the 
policy was suitable for him, I dont think that better information would have put him off taking 
out the policy. 
So even though Santander might not have done everything it should have done, I dont think 
Mr J has lost out because of this.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman