DRN-3182420
The complaint
Mr P complains about the sale of a group accident and sickness scheme by Philip Williams 
(G INS) Management Limited.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr P joined a group accident and sickness scheme. This was offered by a 
representative body of which he is a member (that Ill call F). The scheme was set up for 
the trustees of F by Philip Williams in its capacity as insurance intermediary.
Mr P later made a claim to the insurer after having dental treatment, but only a proportion of 
his costs were met. Mr P complained about the sale of the scheme, as he thought Philip 
Williams hadnt made the policy terms clear to him when hed joined.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Philip Williams had 
made it clear to Mr P how he could access the policy terms. Mr P didnt accept our 
investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
The policy terms limit the amount payable for emergency dental treatment claims. 
Mr P says he wasnt made aware of this limit.
Philip Williams didnt provide the policy terms and conditions to Mr P when he joined 
the scheme, this information was instead provided to the trustees of F (as they are 
the policyholder). As Mr P chose to join the scheme through F, it would have been for 
F to provide Mr P with the necessary information about the scheme. 
However, Philip Williams did provide Mr P with a Scheme Benefits booklet. This 
made it clear the document was only a summary of the cover, and that all benefits 
and exclusions could be found in the full policy document, which was held with F. 
Alternatively, the Scheme Benefits booklet said the documents could be obtained 
through Philip Williams website. 
Also, under the dental section of the Scheme Benefits booklet, it says that 
emergency dental treatment is covered, but also says that definitions are shown in 
the full policy wording. 
Therefore, whilst I accept the Scheme Benefits booklet didnt set out the limits that 
applied for emergency dental treatment, I think it was apparent that the booklet only 
provided an overview of the cover, and that full details were available under the 
policy wording.
Mr F explains that he attempted to call F before having his treatment, but couldnt get 
through. Thats unfortunate, but I cant hold Philip Williams responsible for this. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Philip Williams didnt need to provide the full policy terms to 
Mr P. Philip Williams provided Mr P with an overview of the cover available, and 
made it clear that the full terms were included under the policy wording. Im also 
satisfied that it explained how he could obtain a copy of the policy wording. I 
therefore dont find that Philip Williams mis-sold this cover to Mr P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman