DRN-3236867
The complaint
Miss T complains about issues she had accessing her HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) account 
online and about how HSBC dealt with her concerns.
What happened
Miss T was an account holder of HSBC and was having problems accessing her account 
online. The issues Miss T was having with HSBC were discussed over a series of phone 
calls and emails. Ive referred to some of these below.
Miss T contacted HSBC on 3 September 2021 and explained that shed been having 
problems with logging in to her account through HSBCs banking application (App). She 
explained that the App kept on crashing. The HSBC call handler talked Miss T through 
resetting her online banking security credentials and sought to resolve the issues for her. But 
the suggestions made didnt result in Miss T being able to access the App during the call. 
So, the call handler gave Miss T a validation code and suggested she tried restarting her 
phone and accessing the App again. Miss T said shed try that and if it didnt work shed call 
back.
Miss T spoke to several different HSBC employees on 9 September 2021. Miss T had a long 
discussion with a call handler about the problems shed been having accessing her account 
online. A new telephone banking security number was set up for Miss T during this call. And 
the call handler suggested ways to try to resolve the App access issues, but unfortunately 
nothing suggested worked. There was poor reception at times during the call and Miss T 
was cut off completely when the call handler put her on hold. 
After the call was cut off, Miss T phoned HSBC back and asked how to make a complaint. 
Miss T repeated the issues shed been having to a new call handler and explained the 
issues had been going on for some time. And this call handler explained to Miss T that there 
was a known issue with the App and it was affecting other consumers. Miss T was told that 
HSBCs IT department was working to try to fix the issue but it wasnt known how long it 
would take to resolve. Miss T and the case handler also discussed compensation, this 
resulted in the case handler offering Miss T £80 for the issues shed faced. Miss T didnt 
accept this offer, so the call handler said the matter would be passed on to HSBCs 
complaint team.
Miss T also spoke with a manager on the same day. Miss T again explained the problems 
shed had in accessing the App and the manager tried to help to resolve the issues over the 
phone. But this wasnt successful and the manager confirmed hed let HSBCs IT team know 
about this. 
Miss T also asked the manager if there was any other way to access her online banking, 
other than through the App. The manager explained that Miss T could access her account 
online by logging on through HSBCs website  either by using a digital secure key from the 
App (which Miss T couldnt access) or else by using a physical secure key. 
Miss T confirmed that she had a physical secure key, but it transpired this key had been 
deactivated. As such, the manager explained that Miss T could go into an HSBC branch to 
get a new physical secure key and that the branch would be able to help with the activation 
of that key. The manager also said that HSBC could arrange any transfers or payments 
Miss T wanted to make over the phone.
On 15 September 2011, there was a follow on discussion between Miss T and HSBC about 
accessing her account online through HSBCs website. Miss T explained that she was trying 
to log on to her account using a physical secure key through HSBCs website and was 
getting a message to say that the key activation was incomplete, but shed activated her key 
the day before. The call handler looked into this and explained that when Miss T activated 
the key the App was still showing on her profile, and this was why Miss T was having 
difficulties logging in. The call handler confirmed that shed cancel the App from the profile 
and that Miss T should then be able to log in. 
Miss T was asked to log in to her account to check this action had resolved the issue. Miss T 
confirmed it had worked and that she was in the account. While in the account, Miss T asked 
the call handler about transferring money from the account, how to check direct debits and 
what a specific payment she could see showing in the history was for.
From HSBCs records, I can also see that on 19 September 2021 Miss T activated a secure 
key to her account and signed in successfully.
   
HSBC responded to Miss Ts complaint on 22 September 2021. It apologised for the 
inconvenience and frustration the situation had caused Miss T. HSBC acknowledged that 
Miss T had contacted it on a number of occasions and spent a considerable length of time 
on the phone with representatives trying to get access to her account via the App. HSBC 
also apologised if some of Miss Ts calls had ended abruptly. 
HSBC confirmed that its IT teams were investigating a problem with the App crashing, but it 
couldnt give a definitive timeframe for when this issue would be resolved. It explained that 
the only details it had was that the App was crashing because devices, and its App, were 
running too slowly. Some customers had been able to get around this by closing other Apps 
on their device, restarting the phone might also work. 
HSBC acknowledged Miss Ts frustration with the situation and offered her £100 
compensation because of this.
And, in response to an email from Miss T, HSBC later confirmed in October 2011 that 
following the issues with the App crashing it was releasing an upgrade within the App. 
Miss T wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and referred her complaint to us.
Miss Ts explained that when she went on to the App it would disappear and take her back to 
her home screen on the phone. When she contacted HSBC about this, shed had to 
repeatedly explain the issue to different people and shed had to reset her login credentials 
on a number of occasions. Miss Ts highlighted that shed spent a lot of time talking to HSBC 
to try to resolve the matter and that shed like compensation for this. Miss Ts also said that 
an HSBC employee shed spoken to had been impolite.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ts complaint. They said that the login issues might 
have been related to HSBCs IT issues, but that HSBC had offered appropriate levels of 
assistance and that its offer of £100 for what had happened was a fair offer.
In response to the view Miss T, amongst other things, said that she:Didnt think the level of compensation was fair.
Had to pay for petrol to drive to an HSBC branch, the journey to her nearest branch 
was about 10 to 15 minutes. 
Had to work late to make up the hours shed lost when speaking to HSBC during the 
working day.
Had to call HSBC, it didnt call her and the customer service shed received was 
poor.
Had to explain things to lots of different people at HSBC.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaints been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the problems Miss T experienced in trying to access and manage her 
HSBC account online and through the App on her phone wouldve caused some distress. I 
appreciate the inconvenience this is bound to have caused and Im satisfied that this went 
beyond mere irritation.
I think its clear on HSBCs own evidence that Miss T was affected by IT problems that 
HSBCs responsible for. It seems to me that the issues affecting the App were complex. I 
think HSBC was proactively trying to investigate the cause of the problems Miss T suffered. 
And it referred matters to its IT department, which I think was appropriate
During the time that Miss T experienced the problems shes brought to our attention, it 
doesnt appear that HSBC had a fix in place. And its clear from what HSBC said to Miss T 
that it didnt know when it would be able to resolve the issues affecting Miss T accessing the 
App on her phone. But, I also think that HSBC sought to support Miss T while the issues with 
the App were ongoing. For example, by assisting her with using a physical secure key to 
access her account online through its website and by offering to effect transfers or payments 
for her over the phone if she wanted. It also sent Miss T an update shortly after the upgrade 
to the App went live. 
I think this shows HSBC took matters seriously and did all that it could to try and reduce the 
impact of the problems Miss T experienced when trying to access her account online 
through the App.
So, Im satisfied HSBC tried to resolve the problems as best it could. But, as Ive already 
explained, in my opinion Miss Ts experience here went beyond mere irritation. She was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened and had to spend quite a lot of time 
discussing these issues with HSBC. And I think that HSBC should pay her some 
compensation for that.
Im satisfied that when Miss T made contact with HSBC, the employees Miss T spoke to 
were trying their utmost to try to help and assist Miss T. And, in my opinion, the HSBC 
employees Miss T spoke to werent impolite, but I accept there were some difficult moments 
during calls when suggestions to rectify the online access issues werent working. 
Having listened to the call recordings, I think that the process of having to explain the 
problems to a number of different people at HSBC, and being asked to take similar steps to 
try to rectify matters on several occasions, was an inconvenience and wouldve been very frustrating for Miss T. Especially where a long phone call was cut off and Miss T had to call 
HSBC back.  
Ive also thought about what Miss Ts said about having to work late to make up for the hours 
shed spent speaking to HSBC. She also had to travel to an HSBC branch to collect a new 
physical secure key. And I think these things did cause Miss T some inconvenience and 
wouldve been frustrating.  
Ive carefully considered the distress and inconvenience that Miss T experienced and the 
issues that she faced, including the difficulties in accessing her account online, not being 
able to resolve the problem easily and the time spent trying to do so. And, on balance, I think 
the offer already suggested of £100 is a fair and reasonable amount in this complaint. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman