DRN-4507887
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) hasnt refunded her the interest she 
believes was due to her when she settled her loan account early.
What happened
Miss P received a loan from BOI in July 2019. The loan was for £15,000 with £4,202.94 front 
loaded interest. Her monthly payments were £355.61 to be paid over a term of 54 months. 
BOI said that during August 2019 a fraud block was applied to the account for additional 
verification which caused her first two monthly repayments to be missed. The fraud block 
was identified and removed during October 2019 and the account was re-aged to remove 
the arrears. It said this moved the two monthly repayments from the start of the loan to the 
end of the loan term, so it created a shortfall balance of £711.22. BOI said nothing negative 
was recorded and the repayments were just moved. 
In November 2019, Miss P made a payment due date change from 30th to the 1st of the 
month which meant the 30 November 2019 payment was received, but there was no 
payment during December 2019 and the next payment was on 1 January 2020. This caused 
another shortfall amount of £355.61 for December 2019 which was automatically added to 
the end of the loan term. BOI said this was standard practice. 
In 2020 Miss P requested a three-month payment holiday due to Covid19 and so the direct 
debit instalments due for 1 July, 1 August and 1 September were added to the end of her 
loan term. BOI said there were no other missed payments.
In September 2022 Miss P complained to BOI. She had requested an early settlement figure 
and queried why there was no interest rebate on the figure given, as there was still 20 
months left on her agreement.
In its final response BOI said the rebate had been calculated using a formula prescribed by 
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. It said the quote was correct and 
that it was unable to offer an alternative quote for repayment of the loan. It recognised that 
the level of service Miss P received wasn't satisfactory and it offered Miss P £50 in 
compensation.
Miss P wasn't satisfied and brought her complaint to this service. She said it hadn't been 
explained to her when BOI had offered the payment holiday that this would result in her not 
being able to get any interest rebate should she choose to settle her loan early. She said the 
email she received also stated that no extra interest will be charged. She said she'd been 
sent a payment breakdown of how all payments are covering the interest and the actual loan 
right up to the end of the loan term. Our investigator concluded that BOI hadn't made any 
errors with the rebate calculation but he felt it could have explained more clearly why Miss P 
wasn't eligible for a rebate. So he recommended that BOI pay Miss P an extra £100 in 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused. Miss P didn't agree 
and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. She said she wasnt responsible for the first 
two months fraud block. She also said there should be an interest rebate and queried how 
the change in payment date affected the rebate. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2023. I said:  
As per his correspondence to Miss P our investigator is correct in that we don't 
provide an auditing service. Nor do we calculate early settlement figures. My role is 
to decide whether BOI has acted fairly when it dealt with Miss P's request to settle 
her loan. It may be useful to explain that all loans, including Miss P's, are based on 
an amortisation schedule. What that means is that each instalment is made up of 
some of the amount originally borrowed (also known as capital or principal) and 
some of the interest and charges.
The loan repayments may be for a fixed amount but in the earlier stages of the loan 
term, more of each monthly payment goes on paying the interest  because its 
calculated based on the outstanding balance. And thats going to be higher at the 
start. As the borrower progresses through the loan term, and the remaining balance 
reduces, more of their payment goes on paying off the principal element of that 
balance. As instalments are paid, the principal balance reduces, and so does the 
amount of interest.
If the borrower repays all or some of a loan early, they may not have to pay the 
interest they would need to pay in the future if the loan ran for its full term. This 
saving is called a rebate. When a borrower asks for an early settlement for a loan 
that is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act, as is the case here, a lender will apply 
a mathematical formula which is set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004. This formula takes into account a number of variables including 
how many payments have been made, the interest rate and the borrowers payment 
history.
Miss P has provided copies of her schedule of payments which break down each 
monthly payment to the end of the loan term into the principal being paid back and 
the interest. She said this shows interest is added month by month which shows an 
interest rebate is due even if missed payments are added on to the end.
Although I accept it appears interest is calculated monthly on Miss P's payment 
schedule the interest on Miss P's loan was added at the start and this is clearly noted 
on the credit agreement. The payment schedule illustrates how each payment is 
made up. At several moments during the course of the first half of her loan Miss P did 
not make payments. The first two payments were added to the end of the loan due to 
the account being fraud blocked.
One payment was added to the end of the loan because Miss P changed the 
payment date. And then in 2020 she had a three-month Covid 19 payment break. 
These 6 payments are added to the end of the loan. All of these missed payments 
had a higher level of interest because they were in the earlier stages of the loan term, 
compared to the latter payments Miss P would have made had she carried the loan 
through to term.
Section 5 of the regulations allows a lender to calculate a settlement for (and valid 
until) a date 28 days after the request for a settlement figure was made. And interest 
would be charged for this 28-day period. Additionally, if the agreement in question 
has a term for longer than a year, like Miss Ps agreement did, section 6 of the 
regulations allows the lender to defer the settlement date, for the purposes of 
calculating an interest rebate, by a further 30 days. Therefore the regulations 
permitted BOI to charge interest for a period of 58 days from the date of the settlement request.
Miss P signed a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement. In the information provided on the 
agreement it says:
Early repayment: You can repay all or part of the credit borrowed under this 
agreement at any time. If you wish to make an early repayment please notify 
us And paying off the amount you wish to repay (which may be reduced by 
a rebate).
In the loan terms and conditions it says:
4.2 Where you take the steps listed in clause 4.1 above, the amount you owe 
us will be reduced by an amount equal to the sum of the amount paid and any 
statutory rebate, where applicable.
So it should be noted that a rebate is not guaranteed.
I've seen a copy of the calculation BOI sent to this service for the rebate. In 
summary, taking into account the variables Ive stated above, the rebate is calculated 
as zero. The calculation also indicates the rebate that would be owed to Miss P had 
she made all payments as expected - £274.38.
In its explanation to this service BOI said at the point Miss P originally asked for the 
early settlement figure she had a payment shortfall of five payments. It said this 
becomes a shortfall against the original loan term and this has offset the interest 
rebate because these repayments would contain the highest amount of interest vs 
credit; as interest repaid is higher at beginning of term, as Ive explained above. It 
said its past halfway through the loan so the calculation is made against the current 
balance. For the interest benefit, this would take into consideration all payment 
behaviour, negative or positive, in this case, negative. Miss P made up three 
payments from the payment holiday  this was posted with effective date of 7 
November 2022  BOI said this meant there was still a two payment shortfall hence 
there was no rebate. It said even if Miss P had made five payments effective on 7 
November 2022 then there still wouldn't have been any rebate due to the difference 
between what the effective date of those payments would have been had they been 
paid on time and the effective date of the catch up payments.
It's not clear to me that this calculation is accurate. I note that it appears to only take 
account of five missed payments not six. The missed payment when Miss P changed 
her payment date isnt included. Miss P provided evidence that she took a payment 
break in 2020 yet the calculation appears to have accounted for them in 2021. Its 
possible that if these errors were corrected this might underestimate the final 
calculation  by this I mean re-confirm that no rebate is due. This would be because 
these missed payments were in fact earlier in the loan term than those that appear to 
have been used for the purpose of calculating a rebate.
In her response to our investigator's view Miss P said the two payments that weren't 
made at the start of the agreement due to the fraud block and added to the end were 
not her responsibility. So I asked BOI whether this was the case, and if so to 
recalculate the rebate if the loan was re-aged with those two fraud blocked payments 
not going at the end.
BOI responded by saying the fraud blocked payments were not Miss P's 
responsibility, these were applied in error and, it said, the bank did apologise for this. It reworked the quotation as if the fraud blocked payments were collected at the start 
of the loan (as they should have been), with a recalculated rebate of £56.24.
I asked BOI for a simplified breakdown of the calculations that sets out clearly how 
the deferred payments have affected the interest. It responded that it had provided all 
the information. I also asked it to check there was no compound interest (interest on 
the principal sum plus interest). Although it didn't respond to this question I think it 
unlikely. 
Even if the anomalies Ive outlined above, if corrected, favour BOI and not Miss P, 
they have impacted my confidence in the accuracy of the overall final calculation. 
And I cant fairly say that BOI has acted reasonably.
BOI has recalculated the rebate and according to this Miss P is now due £56.24. 
Subject to any further information I might receive I think it should pay Miss P this 
interest rebate. BOI offered Miss P £50 in compensation. Our investigator 
recommended an additional £100. He said BOI could have explained and broken 
down the reasons why Miss P may not have been eligible for a rebate. He said the 
lack of clarity in the responses gives Miss P no confidence in the BOIs calculations. I 
concur with this view and go further - as I am unable to conclude that BOI has treated 
Miss P fairly with its calculation I consider it fair and reasonable that it pay her an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused. This means a 
total compensation of £250.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions.
Putting things right
To put things right Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must pay Miss P:
1. £56.24 interest rebate;
2. £50 compensation it offered (unless it has already done so);
3. £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman