DRN-4303527
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as X, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus Bank has declined its request for a refund of a payment it says was 
made by a third-party fraudulently.
What happened
Mr C, who is a director of X, brings the complaint on Xs behalf. 
Mr C says he has been the victim of a scam and that the following took place:
On 28 July 2022 Mr C received a call from a fraudster impersonating Cashplus Bank. 
He was told there were attempted purchases that it wanted to verify. Mr C says he 
was told it would block the transactions when he confirmed they werent genuine.
The next day (29 July) Mr C received a further call, again from a number that 
appeared to be Cashplus Bank. He was told there were more payments being 
attempted. This time the caller advised Mr C to replace his card and reset his 
banking details.
Mr C received a series of text messages which appeared in the same thread as 
previous messages from Cashplus Bank. He clicked on a link which appeared to 
show the Cashplus Bank website and so he followed the process to reset his details.
Mr C says he then received an email saying that a payment had been made from Xs 
account for £3,820, at which point he contacted Cashplus Bank to report the scam.
Cashplus Bank has declined Mr Cs request for a refund on the basis that its concluded he 
shared the one-time passwords (OTPs) sent to him. It says that he enabled the fraudster to 
add their own phone as a trusted device after which a third party was able to access Xs 
account and initiate a payment. Cashplus Bank concluded that by sharing the OTPs Mr C 
authorised the payment. 
When Mr C came to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. They thought the 
disputed payment was unauthorised and that it wouldnt be fair to conclude Mr C had failed 
to keep his secure information safe with intent or gross negligence in the circumstances. 
They recommended Cashplus Bank refund the payment and pay X simple interest at 8%.
Cashplus Bank didnt agree, it said that Mr C had been negligent in following instructions 
from a third-party caller without completing any due diligence. It said Mr C ought to have 
identified that the website domain was different to its genuine website and therefore known 
not to enter any sensitive information. Cashplus Bank added that it was unknown whether 
Mr C had shared the OTP verbally or online.
The investigator explained that they thought Mr C had been reasonable in his belief that he 
was dealing with Cashplus Bank, as the caller had information about the account and 
appeared to be contacting him from Cashplus Banks genuine number. The investigator 
explained that on balance, they thought it was more likely than not that Mr C had entered the 
OTPs online.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
It isnt disputed that Mr C, on behalf of X, was the victim of a scam. It also appears to 
be accepted that Mr C didnt make the disputed payment himself or give anyone else 
permission to make the payment, so on that basis the payment is unauthorised. 
I agree that Mr Cs version of events is plausible and based on the information 
available that the disputed payment was more likely than not unauthorised. This is 
because Ive seen a copy of the messages Mr C received from the fraudster in the 
same text chain as genuine messages from Cashplus Bank. And from what 
Cashplus Bank has said, the information Mr C shared enabled a third party to add a 
new device to his account and make the disputed payment without his knowledge. 
So, the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that X should 
be provided with a refund.
I understand that Cashplus Bank says Mr C has been negligent because he didnt 
verify the caller was genuine. I disagree, Mr C has explained that the fraudster had 
information about him and the account. And I think the telephone number matching 
that of Cashplus Banks genuine number would have reassured him that he was 
dealing with Cashplus Bank staff. This was a sophisticated scam whereby Mr C was 
tricked into thinking he needed to take steps to protect the account. Mr C has 
described the website as mirroring Cashplus Banks genuine website. I dont think it 
amounts to gross negligence that he didnt identify that the website domain was 
different to Cashplus Banks genuine website  the fake website had a plausible 
name and Mr C believed he needed to act quickly to protect the account.
Cashplus Bank says that we dont know whether Mr C shared the OTPs verbally or 
entered them online. Mr C says he didnt share the OTPs verbally and that he may 
have entered them online, but he cant remember doing so. Considering what Mr C 
has said, and in the context of the scam where Mr C was already entering secure 
information online, I think its more likely than not that he also entered the OTPs 
online. And that this is how the third party obtained them. I dont think doing so 
amounts to Mr C acting with gross negligence. The text message containing the OTP 
didnt specify what it was for, and Mr C entered secure information on the belief that 
he was re-setting his security details on Cashplus Banks genuine website.
So, for the reasons explained I dont think Cashplus Bank has declined Mr Cs request for a 
refund fairly.
Putting things right
As Ive concluded that Cashplus Bank unfairly declined Mr Cs request for a refund, it should 
now provide this refund to X. Cashplus Bank should also apply interest to this amount to 
reflect the time X has been without these funds.
Whilst Mr C has described needing to borrow money, he hasnt provided evidence that this 
has come at a cost to X and so Im not making an award in this regard.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus Bank should:
1. Reimburse X the disputed payment - £3,820. 
2. Apply 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of the payment to the date of 
settlement and pay this to X
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman