The complaint 
Mr P and Miss Ts complaint is about TSB Bank plc and its handling of their remortgage 
application. Theyre unhappy with the value placed on their property by the valuer instructed, 
and said this caused them financial loss as they went elsewhere for a more expensive 
product. Mr P and Miss T were also unhappy that TSB refused to instruct another valuer.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its fair and reasonable for lenders to rely on the professional advice of independent
valuers. Lenders arent responsible for the advice given or how the valuation is
undertaken  valuers are responsible for their own actions, though its worth noting
that for basic mortgage valuations (such as the type Mr P and Miss T chose), the
valuers only are instructed to advise the lender. That means theres no obligation to
disclose the valuation or any review to the consumer as the report hasnt been
prepared for their benefit. The evidence available to me shows that the valuer used in
this case was suitably qualified and independent.
But sometimes its fair and reasonable to allow an appeal or review of the first
valuation. I note that in Mr P and Miss Ts case, the valuation was reviewed in light of
further information provided through their broker. But the valuer didnt change his
assessment of the valuation, and again I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable
for TSB to rely on that independent professional advice or to decide that there was
no need for a second valuation as reasons were given by the valuer for his view and
he went inside the property.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss T to accept or reject 
my decision before 30 July 2020
DRN-1847284Claire Sharp
Ombudsman