DRN-2484570
The complaint
 Ms H has complained about the repairs to her car by esure Insurance Limited under her 
motor policy following an accident.
 What happened
 Ms H was away on holiday when another driver crashed into her car whilst it was parked 
outside so this wasnt her fault at all. She made a claim to esure who initially thought her car 
would be written off but then decided it was repairable.
When Ms H got her car back from esures approved repairers, she wasnt happy with the 
repairs. The issues with the repairs were confirmed by a local garage. So, Ms H complained 
to esure. But esure didnt think its approved repairers had done anything wrong.
So Ms H brought her complaint to us. Ultimately the investigator partially upheld Ms Hs 
complaint. Neither Ms H or esure agreed so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 December 2020 and I said the following:
As the investigator explained, were an evidenced based dispute resolution service 
which means that we assess what the evidence says and make our decisions 
accordingly. Were not motor engineers or mechanics, however. Our approach is to 
investigate whether the insurer acted reasonably having regards to the terms and 
conditions of the policy. So, we look at the information the insurer had in coming to its 
decision and whether that was a fair and reasonable decision. 
The policy provides that esure will repair the damage caused by the accident only. 
If the evidence is incomplete or unclear or even contradictory, then we reach our 
decisions on the balance of probabilities as to what most likely happened given the 
extent of the known circumstances and evidence available. 
Here its clear Ms H wasnt satisfied with the repairs to her car more especially the 
following:
 
One of the front ABS sensors (nearside) wasnt fitted correctly as it wasnt 
secured in properly.
There was a fracture on the rear chassis near the suspension mount.
The passenger airbag flap was lifted up and the airbag warning light wasnt 
working.
Because Ms H left her car in gear, shes concerned there might be something 
wrong with the clutch, which might only become an issue in the future.
As Ms Hs car was parked on the roadside the force of the other car crashing into it 
pushed her car against the kerb with some force as well causing damage to the 
bodywork where other car made contact with it, namely the offside front of her car. 
Ms H had also just had a MOT completed before she went on holiday, which her car 
had passed. However, I note her car was fairly old with a relatively high mileage, 
which can confuse issues more. It had also been modified to be able to take a 
wheelchair. Notwithstanding Ms Hs care of her car, with older cars and cars that 
have been modified for wheel chair use, its therefore not unreasonable to consider 
there may have been previously unidentified wear and tear issues too. 
I can see work was carried out on Ms Hs car on nearside of Ms Hs car which had to 
have involved displacing the ABS sensor. Therefore, its seems more probable to me 
it wasnt correctly refitted by esures approved repairers. Therefore, like the 
investigator I think this is something which esure should now repair properly. Esure 
has now accepted this. 
Its also clear Ms Hs car has a fracture on the rear nearside suspension mount. 
Esure believes that because this isnt on the offside, its unlikely to have been caused 
in the accident. And further given the modifications to the car to accommodate a 
wheelchair which esure doesnt believe was done well plus the previous accident 
damage in 2009 (which I will discuss below) esure is of the view that even it agreed 
that at the time of the impact the suspension did split because it was moved or 
shaken in some way, the split would have been as a result of a faulty component, 
whether from the result of corrosion (since the this part of the suspension shows 
corrosion) or the modifications made to accommodate the wheelchair. It believes if 
the rear suspension was in good and more importantly in the original condition 
(unmodified) then the split wouldnt have occurred. 
Im more persuaded by this than the fact the accident caused it or that somehow 
esures approved repairers did it, so I dont think its fair to ask esure to pay to repair 
this.
The next issue is the flap of the passenger airbag system being lifted. Theres simply 
no evidence that her passenger airbag was deployed as a result of this accident. And 
the evidence from esures approved repairers was that the flap was lifted when it first 
saw her car. The car needs to have been switched on or just having been switched 
off for the airbags to have been deployed, which of course wasnt the case here, 
since Ms H was away at the time and her car hadnt been driven for the duration of 
her holiday.
Esure state that Ms Hs had previously been involved in an accident in 2009 and had 
been deemed uneconomical to repair which I note Ms Hs denies having spoken to 
the DVLA. However, Ive seen no evidence of what the DVLA said so Im more 
persuaded esure is right about the previous accident. Like the investigator there 
seems to be enough evidence that probably the repairs then were poor, meaning the 
glue holding the flap in place degraded allowing the flap to lift in this way. Further 
since esure didnt need to repair anything inside her car, I cant see how esures 
approved repairers interfered with this. Since the air bag didnt deploy, and the 
approved repairers didnt need to repair anything inside the car, therefore on balance 
I cant see why esure would be responsible for this. 
Ms H said her ABS warning light also appears to have been disabled. This obviously 
would have had to have been working when Ms Hs car passed its MOT. But like the 
airbag flap theres little or no evidence that esures approved repairers needed to 
have anything to do with this. I therefore think its more likely like the investigator 
suggested that the bulb might have fused. And that has nothing do with the actions 
taken by esures approved repairers in repairing her car. As regards the clutch issue Ms Hs has raised, theres no evidence that theres 
anything wrong with it and therefore I see no reason to ask esure to do anything with 
this. I dont consider its fair or reasonable to suggest that this might go wrong in the 
future and that if it did go wrong it was because of this accident.
Its very clear Ms H was considerably upset about the accident and esures handling 
of her claim. I do consider there were issues with esures handling of the matter. 
Therefore, I agree some compensation is warranted. However, I consider the 
investigators thoughts of £250 compensation to be too high and I think taking 
everything into account it should be £150 instead. That is more in line with what I 
have awarded in similar issues.
I also consider its fair and reasonable for esure to refund Ms H the cost of her own 
engineers report in the sum of £78 with interest. This is because this report did 
outline various issues some of which I have upheld in this decision. 
Esure accepted my provisional decision and provided evidence from the HPI register 
confirming Ms Hs car was a category D insurance loss on 18 August 2009. 
Ms H did not. Ms H reiterated her previous points and resent us all the information she had 
previously given to us. She also provided a letter from the person who helped her clear out 
the car who said the airbag flap wasnt lifted at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms Hs depth of feeling on this matter. I also confirm I have read everything she 
has sent to us to include all the documents she has sent in since I issued my provisional 
decision.  However, I remain of the view as outlined in my provisional decision.
 
As its clear the airbag didnt deploy in the accident, there was nothing for esures approved 
repairers to fix with the airbag. It seems more likely the glue simply became unstuck, but as 
Ms H and the person who helped her clear out the car before it went to esures approved 
repairer, confirm that didnt happen in the accident and further since esure didnt have to 
repair it as the airbag didnt deploy, I dont find its responsible now for the repair.
Esure have shown me an excerpt from the HPI register of Ms Hs car. Its clear it was an 
insurance loss namely a category D write off on 18 August 2009. The car was damaged but 
repairable, however the insurer at that time decided not to repair it. However, since it 
obviously didnt go to salvage, it simply remains on the HPI register as esure detailed and 
thats probably why the DVLA couldnt tell Ms H about it.
 
I remain more persuaded by esures belief that if the rear suspension was in good and more 
importantly in the original condition (unmodified), then the split wouldnt have occurred. As I 
said in my provisional decision, notwithstanding Ms Hs care of her car, with older cars and 
cars that have been modified for wheel chair use, its therefore not unreasonable to consider 
there may have been previously unidentified wear and tear issues too. 
  
My final decisionSo, for these reasons, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint.
I now require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
Repair the ABS sensor as its agreed to do.
Refund the costs of the alternative report in the sum of £78, adding interest of 8% 
simple per year from the date Ms H paid for it to the date of its refund. If income tax is 
to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Ms H for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Ms H £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman