DRN-4357340
The complaint
Ms C complains that Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited (Wren) failed to provide her 
with advice about a possible pension transfer in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld and what Wren needed to do in order 
to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Ms C held deferred pension benefits with a former occupational pension scheme 
(OPS). Those benefits would provide her with a defined benefit when she reached 
the scheme retirement age.
In late 2021 Ms C asked the OPS to provide her with a guaranteed cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) in relation to her pension benefits. The CETV was issued to 
her on 6 December 2021 although Ms C says that she didnt receive it until a few 
days later. Its value was guaranteed for a period of three months. Ms C first made 
contact with Wren on 17 December, and asked for its advice on the suitability of the 
transfer.
Wren sent Ms C some documentation setting out the way in which it structured its 
advice process. As part of that information Wren says it explained to Ms C that the 
advice process is lengthy and complex, and it is not uncommon for transfer values to 
expire during the advice process, particularly where they are obtained prior to your 
first telephone meeting with your Wren Sterling adviser. You would then need to 
obtain a new transfer value, which you are likely to have to pay for, and which may 
be lower (or higher) than the previous value.
The first appointment that Wren was able to offer Ms C was around a month later, on 
14 January 2022. Wren says that Ms C was happy to accept the appointment. The 
appointment was cancelled due to the illness of the Wren advisor, but eventually took 
place three days later. Wren says that there were no specific discussions in that 
meeting about timescales, other than its advisor telling Ms C that it isnt a quick 
process.
Ms C says that she needed to chase Wren for any progress information over the 
following weeks. She says that Wren had arranged a telephone meeting to discuss 
her investment preferences that it failed to attend. And she says that as the CETV 
guaranteed period approached its expiry she became increasingly concerned that 
she had not received any updates from the firm.
 
Wren says that its advisor completed his analysis around 6 March, but the advice 
then needed to be checked and some financial analysis performed by its 
paraplanning team. It said that by that time the CETV guarantee had expired, but it 
issued a draft report to Ms C based on the previous value. The report was issued to 
Ms C on 7 April. But when Ms C then requested a new CETV, so that the report 
could be finalised, she was disappointed to learn that the value had fallen 
considerably. The OPS trustees explained that the pension scheme was 
underfunded so a decision had been made to apply a 10% reduction to all new 
CETVs. And the value of CETVs had fallen generally across the market due to 
changes in interest and gilt rates. Ms C says that the CETV had fallen in value by 
around £112,000.
Even after taking account of the fall in the CETV, Wrens advice to Ms C remained 
that it would be in her best interests to make the transfer. Ms C accepted that advice, 
but she says she continued to face problems in her dealings with Wren. Ultimately 
she says she needed to liaise directly with the OPS to extend the deadline on her 
new CETV so that her transfer could proceed.
When Wren looked at Ms Cs complaint it accepted that its communication with her 
had fallen short of what might be expected. So it offered her £400 for the 
inconvenience she had been caused. But it didnt think it was responsible for the 
expiry of the CETV guarantee. It said that it had explained from the start that the 
advice process could be lengthy, and that CETVs could expire. It said that it hadnt 
identified any errors, that it had made, that extended what could be considered to be 
a reasonable timeframe for its advice to be provided. And it said that even if the 
CETV had been transferred earlier, and invested in line with its recommendations, 
the value of Ms Cs pension savings would have fallen by around £60,000 due to 
changes in market conditions. Unhappy with Wrens response, Ms C brought her 
complaint to us.
The complaint that Ms C has made does not relate to the content of the advice she 
received. It appears that she agrees with Wrens recommendation that it would be in 
her best interests to transfer her pension benefits from the OPS to a private pension 
plan. So I will not be considering whether that advice was reasonable in this decision. 
Ms Cs complaint is about the time it took Wren to provide that advice to her. So that 
is the issue that I will consider in this decision, looking at the information that was 
given to Ms C at the outset, whether Wren met the timescales it set out, and whether 
that time was reasonable.
Ms C did not pay Wren for the advice it provided to her. The OPS with which Ms C 
held deferred benefits offered all its members free advice on potential transfers away 
from the scheme. So it was the OPS that paid Wren for the services it provided to 
Ms C. But I dont think that arrangement diminishes the responsibilities Wren had to 
Ms C, and in particular its responsibility to treat her fairly and act in accordance with 
her best interests  as required by its regulator.
Wren has accepted that its communication with Ms C fell short of what she might 
reasonably expect. I have looked carefully at what both parties have said happened, 
and it is clear that there were repeated failures by Wren to answer Ms Cs reasonable 
questions, to meet with her when arranged (or at least tell her beforehand that the 
meeting would need to be cancelled), and to keep her updated on the progress of the 
work it was performing for her. I have no doubts how frustrating that would have been 
for Ms C, and I think it is right that Wren has recognised the inconvenience she was 
caused by those failings and offered her £400 in compensation. I think that is a 
reasonable offer, so in any final decision along these lines, I intend to direct Wren to 
make that payment to Ms C unless it already has done so.
However, Wren doesnt agree that the communication failings I have detailed above, 
resulted in it failing to provide its advice report to Ms C before the CETV guarantee expired in March 2022. It says that the time it took to produce the report should be 
expected. And it also goes on to say that the time was further extended by sickness 
within its teams, and due to increased levels of demand for its services.
Ive looked carefully at the information that was given to Ms C about the time it would 
take for the advice report to be provided. I accept that she was given some general 
literature that warned her (as Ive set out earlier) that it wasnt uncommon for some 
CETVs to expire during the advice process. But Im not persuaded that was 
sufficient. I think it would have been reasonable for Ms C to have expected the 
general information to have been supplemented by information specific to her 
circumstances if there was a strong risk of her CETV guarantee expiring. Without any 
specific information I think it would have been reasonable for Ms C to think the CETV 
guarantee deadline was achievable.
And had Ms C not reasonably considered that it was achievable through Wren, she 
could have sought assistance elsewhere.
Ms C first made contact with Wren just a matter of days after she had received her 
CETV. That meant that the majority of the three-month guarantee period remained 
available for the advice process to take place. It seems that Wren was unable to offer 
Ms C an initial appointment until one month later although I would note that period of 
time included the Christmas and New Year holidays. And Ms C appears to have 
been clearly told that was the earliest appointment that Wren had available. I dont 
think there was any obligation on Wren to provide Ms C with an earlier appointment 
at that stage and I accept that it may have been busy with similar advisory processes 
with other members. But I do think, if the delay was likely to have a material effect on 
whether the guarantee period would be met, Wren should have made that very clear 
to Ms C at that time. That would have allowed her to seek advice from an alternative 
firm (albeit at her own cost) if she had chosen to proceed in that way.
 
But Im not persuaded that is something that Ms C would have found attractive at that 
time. Ms C has told us that over the previous years she had noted the CETV for her 
pension benefits to be generally rising. It doesnt seem that she had any reasonable 
expectation that its value would fall if the guarantee expired and a new CETV was 
required. And using an alternative firm to provide advice would have come at a 
significant cost to Ms Cs pension benefits. It isnt uncommon to see charges in the 
range of 3% of the pension benefits being applied  meaning that Ms C would have 
needed to pay a sum in the order of £20,000 for advice from an alternative firm.
So Im not currently persuaded that any failings by Wren to make Ms C aware that 
the time its advice process would take would most likely result in her CETV 
guarantee expiring would have caused Ms C to act any differently. I dont think she 
would have been greatly concerned, at that time, that the CETV value might fall. And 
I think paying for advice from an alternative firm would have been unattractive given 
the advice from Wren was effectively free to her.
The initial meeting with Ms C, scheduled for mid-January, was cancelled, albeit 
I accept the reasons were unavoidable. And it was rescheduled very shortly 
afterwards. I think, from what I have seen, the overwhelming majority of the 
information Wren needed from Ms C in order to create its advice report, was 
provided. It doesnt seem to me that Ms C supplied anything further to the firm before 
receiving the draft report in April 2022.
It is then unclear what happened for a period of almost six weeks. Wren has told us 
that whilst it doesnt think it reasonable to account for that period day by day, during that time its advisor was working on the case and formulating his recommendation 
before passing the case to paraplanning for the detailed financial analysis.
But, and most importantly, I dont think the time that Wren took to produce its advice 
report was in excess of what might be reasonably expected from descriptions in the 
initial document that it gave to Ms C in December 2021, and what should have been 
explained in some detail either at that time or in the January 2022 meeting. Wren 
appears to have anticipated that the length of its advice process would exceed the 
guarantee period, and the time it took between the CETV being issued, and the 
original meeting taking place, seems to me to have made that almost inevitable.
Unlike the conclusion reached by our investigator, Im not persuaded that there was 
any scope to request a formal extension of the CETV guarantee period. But, as was 
shown when Ms C ultimately accepted the revised CETV, the OPS trustees appear 
to have been willing to take an indicative acceptance of the CETV, holding the 
guaranteed value, with the formal acceptance paperwork being sent later. Im not 
however persuaded that would have been reasonable in the timescales here.
The CETV that Ms C held expired in early March. But that was only around the time 
that Wren first started its financial analysis. So since I have concluded that Wren 
didnt act outside the timescales that it provided to Ms C for its work, I dont think 
I can reasonably conclude that Ms C would have been in a position to even give an 
indication to the OPS trustees that she would be accepting the guaranteed CETV 
before the guarantee expired.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Ms C. The OPS trustees took a 
decision shortly before the new CETV was issued to artificially depress transfer 
values in response to a funding shortfall in the scheme. And around the same time, 
changes in gilt and interest rates further reduced CETV quotations. So when a new 
CETV was required Ms C saw a significant fall in the transfer value of her pension 
benefits. But I am satisfied that Wren provided its advice to her in line with the 
warnings about the timescale that it set out at the start. And Im not persuaded that if 
Wren had provided even clearer warnings Ms C would have chosen to seek advice 
from an alternative firm.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Wren has said that it accepts my provisional findings. Ms C doesnt 
agree with my provisional decision and has provided some additional comments. Although 
I am only summarising here what Ms C has said I want to reassure her that I have read, and 
carefully considered, her entire response.
Ms C says that the delays caused by Wren were excessive. Without those delays she says 
that the CETV guarantee period could have been met. But regardless Ms C says that Wren 
failed to secure the CETV and request the available six-month extension. Ms C says that 
I am wrong to conclude that she wouldnt have sought advice from an alternative firm had 
Wren explained that the CETV guarantee would be unlikely to be met. She has provided 
evidence that she had some initial discussions with another firm around a week before she 
first contacted Wren.
Ms C considers that our investigators assessment provided a more balanced view of what 
happened. She says that she has researched other similar complaints that have been 
considered by the Service, and provided an example that she suggests means my decision 
is incorrect. She thinks that Wren failed to adequately communicate with her throughout the 
advice process, and so denied her the opportunity to seek advice elsewhere.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Ms C and by Wren. Where 
the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Having thought carefully about everything that Ms C has said, Im sorry to tell her that I am 
not persuaded that I should change my provisional findings on her complaint. But I would like 
to take this opportunity to provide some further thoughts on the matters she has raised.
I think I should first explain that this service considers every complaint on its own merits. 
That means that whilst we will look to provide a degree of consistency in the answers that 
are given on similar complaints, I am not bound by decisions that have previously been 
reached. And generally it is unhelpful to compare decisions that have been issued as the 
underlying issues, and evidence provided, might make two apparently similar complaints 
fundamentally different. I am satisfied that the underlying circumstances of the complaint that 
Ms C has referenced in her reply are different to those that I see here.
There is no extension offered by the OPS trustees to a guaranteed CETV. I think Ms C has 
been confused by what happened when her CETV was accepted in June 2022. At that time, 
on her behalf, Wren provided the OPS administrator with a completed transfer information 
form, and confirmation that Ms C had been provided with regulated independent advice. 
That then protected the guarantee on the CETV as long as the transfer was completed 
within the next six months.
At the time Ms Cs original CETV guarantee expired Wren had not completed its advice 
process. So it would have been unable to confirm at that time that the regulated advice 
process had been undertaken. Without that confirmation the OPS trustees could not have 
accepted Ms Cs transfer request. So her existing CETV guarantee naturally expired.
I entirely accept that Ms C had started to consider whether to take advice from an alternative 
firm before she first made contact with Wren. But it doesnt seem those discussions had 
progressed any further before she was advised by the Government Pension Advice Line that 
using Wren, who were recommended by the OPS Trustees, would be a very safe option.
I have no way of knowing whether the other provider Ms C had contacted would have 
agreed to take her as a client. It is possible that provider wouldnt have been able to meet 
the deadline of the CETV guarantee either. And it might not have advised her to transfer her 
pension benefits. Ultimately though I am not persuaded that, given the advice Ms C had 
been given about Wren being a safe advice option, and that she wouldnt need to pay for its 
services, she would have chosen to take advice from the other firm.Ms C has previously said that her expectation, based on what had happened in the past, 
was that her CETV would generally rise over time. So, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that, even if Wren had given her better information, she would 
have been unduly concerned about needing to request a revised transfer value. It was only a 
series of unexpected events, including a decision by the OPS trustees to artificially depress 
transfer values, that led to the fall in her revised quotation.
I think the failing here was that Wren failed to provide sufficient warning to Ms C that it might 
not, or perhaps even most likely wouldnt, meet the CETV guarantee deadline. So I dont 
think it reasonable that I should consider Wren to have done something wrong by not 
meeting a deadline that it should have told Ms C it might not meet. And I think this is what 
sets this case apart from others that Ms C might have seen. I havent seen any assurances 
from Wren to her that it would meet the CETV deadline  in fact the little that Wren did say 
suggested that meeting the deadline might be problematic.
So whilst Ms C might feel that Wren failed to act as quickly as it could have, I dont think that 
Wren failed to meet any promises or guarantees that it gave about any timeframes. Wren 
must manage the workload it holds and the demands of multiple clients. And whilst that 
means that in some, or perhaps many, cases the advice wont be provided as quickly as it 
could have been, that doesnt mean the advice wasnt provided as quickly as it should have 
been.
So I remain satisfied that Wren provided its advice to Ms C in line with the limited warnings 
about the timescale that it set out at the start. And Im not persuaded that, if Wren had 
provided even clearer warnings, Ms C would have chosen to seek advice from the 
alternative firm. So I dont think that Wren is responsible for the fall in the value of the CETV 
that Ms C took. But I do think it should pay her some compensation in respect of the depth of 
the information it provided to her about timescales at the start of their relationship and as its 
advice process progressed.
Putting things right
I dont think that the communication and information Wren provided to Ms C during its advice 
process was sufficient. And I am satisfied that those failings will have caused her a degree of 
distress and inconvenience. I think the offer of £400 that Wren made to Ms C is fair. So, 
unless it has already done so, Wren should now pay that compensation to Ms C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Ms Cs complaint and direct Wren Sterling 
Financial Planning Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman