DRN-2175197
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS. At the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered more than 93,000 
miles.
Having collected the car, Mr P experienced a loss of power and white smoke coming out of 
the exhaust. The car broke down and a motor rescue organisation attended.
The breakdown report identified fault codes relating to the engine management light. Mr P 
took the car back to the supplying dealer and asked to reject the car. The dealership had the 
car for several weeks during which time repairs to the engine and pressure sensor were 
carried out.
When Mr P collected the car the supplying dealer said it had tested the car and there were 
no faults. However, when Mr P drove the car, the engine management light illuminated 
again.
Mr P contacted BMWFS, who arranged an independent inspection of the car in July 2019. 
The inspection confirmed that the engine management light was illuminated but that the car 
performed as expected. The independent engineer was unable to find any faults with the car. 
Based on the independent report, BMWFS refused Mr Ps request to reject the car. Mr P 
remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there was a current fault with the car.
Mr P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
including, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Id expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr P  to have a degree of wear and 
tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that there was an inherent 
fault with the car as opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the pointy of supply unless the 
business can show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If 
the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of 
proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car had a fault at the point of 
supply.
Mr P and BMWFS disagree about whether the car had an inherent fault. In order to reach a 
decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probability, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the MOT which was carried out in April 2019, shortly before Mr P acquired the 
car. The car passed its MOT with no advisories. Ive also looked at the pre-sale vehicle 
inspection report which was carried out in May 2019. The car was fully inspected, and no 
faults were found.
I understand that Mr P experienced issues with a loss of power and white smoke, which led 
to the car breaking down and being returned to the supplying dealer. The supplying dealer 
hasnt provided any job cards to show what repairs were carried out. But it isnt disputed by 
Mr P that the dealer attempted a repair. This is in line with what Id expect the supplying 
dealer to do under the relevant legislation. As Ive already explained, the business is allowed 
one attempt at repair. So, Ive considered whether the repairs carried out by the supplying 
dealer were successful.
Mr P has said that when he collected the car following the repairs, the engine management 
light was illuminated. But he hasnt said that he experienced further faults with the car. 
Ive looked at the independent inspection report. This confirms that the engine management 
light was illuminated but concludes that there were no faults with the car.
Although the engine management light was illuminated, I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that there was a fault which made the car of unsatisfactory quality. The 
independent inspection says there arent any faults. Theres nothing to suggest that the 
repairs carried out by the dealership werent successful because the independent report 
found the car to be performing as expected.
I understand that Mr P took the car to a main dealer with an issue with the seat. This service 
has received confirmation from the main dealer that the seat wasnt faulty, but that it had 
slight movement due to the mechanism being worn. 
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account and I think its reasonable to expect 
some wear and tear to the interior. So, I dont think the issue with the seat makes the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Im aware that Mr P has since sold the car. Whilst I understand his frustration about the 
issues he experienced, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Because of this, I wont be asking BMWFS to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman