DRN-2309074
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc wont let her reduce her overdraft by a small amount
each month, to help her get out of debt.
What happened
Ms M said she was always in her overdraft, but she was trying to reduce it. She said shes
been able to bring it down by a little bit each month, and now had a limit of £1,600.
Ms M wanted to reduce her overdraft again to £1,500, but Santander said it couldnt do that.
If it amended her overdraft, it would reduce it very significantly and bring it down to £500, not
just the £100 less that she wanted.
Ms M said she was only trying to reduce the amount she owed, and she wanted to know if
Santander was refusing to help so it could keep getting monthly charges from her. Ms M said
she didnt want to be on a payment plan, she just wanted to make small reductions to her
overdraft regularly.
Santander said it had checked, and Ms M wasnt actually eligible for the overdraft that she
had got at the moment. If it formally reviewed Ms Ms borrowing, then it would now only lend
her £500, so it wouldnt just make a reduction down to £1,500.
Santander said it wasnt planning to review Ms Ms borrowing in this way, and it would write
to her if that changed. It asked if she could manage to simply reduce the amount she
borrows, while leaving her current limit in place. Ms M has said no.
Santander suggested that Ms M could reduce her overdraft, and then appeal against a
decision to drop the overdraft to £500. However, it said it couldnt guarantee that this appeal
would be successful, so she still might only be able to borrow £500.
More recently, Santander suggested that if Ms M cant reduce her own borrowing without
changing her credit limit, then instead she could deposit a small amount of money in her
savings account each month, then use that to clear her overdraft.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Santanders suggestion
of building up money in a savings account shouldve been offered sooner. But she also said
this will disadvantage Ms M, because she would still pay interest on her overdraft. So our
investigator thought Santander should pay Ms M £50, and also work out the difference
between the interest charged on the overdraft and that gained on her savings account, until
the savings amount is paid onto the overdraft, then refund the difference to Ms M.
Ms M accepted that, but Santander didnt. It wouldnt cover the difference between the
interest earned on the savings account and the interest charged on Ms Ms overdraft. It
didnt think it should have to refund a charge applied in line with its terms and conditions. It
repeated that there was no scope to override its process or make an exception for Ms M, so
it couldnt just reduce the overdraft by £100.
Santander wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
An overdraft is intended for short term borrowing. Santander can ask Ms M to repay 
this overdraft at any point. It will usually give Ms M 30 days notice if it wants to 
remove or reduce her overdraft. That doesnt appear to be how Ms M is using this 
overdraft, because she says shes using it all the time.
Santander has refused to allow Ms M to reduce her overdraft by a modest amount. It 
says that any change to her existing overdraft would have to be a substantial 
reduction, because if it was lending to her now, it would only offer her an overdraft of 
£500.
When Santander makes a lending decision (which would include a revision of Ms Ms
overdraft) it has to be sure its complying with requirements around responsible 
lending. It needs to be sure it isnt lending Ms M more money than she can pay back. 
I think that may be why it doesnt want to reduce Ms Ms overdraft by only £100. 
Then it has to make a decision on lending, and if it does have to make a decision, the 
only responsible decision it could make, would be to lend her £500.
But Santander is already lending Ms M £1,600. And it says it doesnt currently plan to 
reduce this. If Santander hasnt currently reached the view that the rules on lending 
would require it to take proactive steps to reduce Ms Ms overdraft, then it seems 
unreasonable for the rules on lending to prevent Santander from reducing Ms Ms 
existing lending by the small amounts that she is asking for, in order to help her 
reduce her overall debt.
So Ill instruct Santander, for the next six months, to reduce Ms Ms lending once in 
any month when she asks it to do so, by the amount she requests. My current view is 
that, if it is able to do this, then it should do so. (Ill consider anything further that 
Santander says about this before reaching a final decision, in particular about 
whether its able to do this.)
My decision wont affect Santanders overall rights under its agreement with Ms M, 
and its responsibilities to her. In particular, Santander wouldnt be required to restore 
any lending it has removed as a result of this decision, if Ms M changed her mind. 
And it wouldnt be prevented by my decision from reviewing Ms Ms overdraft lending, 
and reducing or removing that lending, if it does consider that it ought to do so.
I appreciate that Ms M would find it easier to manage if her limit was reduced on a 
monthly basis, and my decision is designed to provide that for her. But I also note 
that there is no obligation on Ms M to use all of her existing overdraft. I dont think 
that Ms M has been required to continue to borrow the full amount of her overdraft by 
Santanders approach to Ms Ms debt so far. So I wont ask it to pay compensation, 
or to take any further steps.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Ms M replied to say she had nothing to add. Santander replied to say it now thought it could 
help Ms M.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander told us that it had made extensive enquiries, and there is now a new team, 
created to help customers with this type of situation. This team apparently has only been set 
up recently, due to the pandemic, and wasnt in place when Ms M first complained.
Im very pleased to hear that Santander is now able to assist Ms M. Ill now make the award I 
originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must reduce Ms Ms agreed overdraft amount 
once in any month when she asks it to do so, by the amount she requests. Santander UK 
Plc must do this for six months, starting from when Ms M accepts my final decision in this 
case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman