DRN-3869596
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his property insurer Ageas Insurance Limited regarding flooring 
which was damaged by a fire at his home and a shortfall in reimbursement for his cost 
incurred living elsewhere.
What happened
There was a fire at Mr Ds home in November 2017. The family were moved into a hotel for a 
while and then a let property was organised, with the family moving there in December 2017. 
The work needed at the property was significant. Including a substantial strip-out and drying 
programme. Mr D had appointed a loss assessor at the outset and the loss assessor had 
appointed a surveyor  agreed to by Ageas. Ageas contractor handled the strip-out and 
drying works. Then, following a tender process, Mr Ds preferred contractor was awarded the 
contract for reinstatement work. Towards the end of 2018, with the family still living at the 
property organised in December 2017, with work to reinstate the home having begun in 
October 2018, it was expected that the work would complete by the end of March 2019. 
Ageas loss adjuster therefore agreed to cover Mr Ds cost for living elsewhere for a further 
four months, from the end of the previous lease on 10 December 2018 to 9 April 2019.
In January 2019 a report was provided showing that the kitchen was beyond repair. Ageas 
began considering its liability for the kitchen and in early February 2019 the loss assessor 
chased a reply. The assessor pointed out that, from ordering, there was a 12-week lead time 
for the kitchen to be made. Ageas wanted to review its liability for the kitchen further though 
and it was some while before any agreement regarding the kitchen was reached. The 
kitchen was then ordered on 20 May 2019. The kitchen installation began in September and 
work at the home was completed by late October 2019. 
In the meantime the period, over which rent for the home the family were living in, had 
ended. By June rent had not been paid for two months (due 10 April and 10 May) and Mr D 
was facing eviction. Ageas later made payment to cover the rent charged until 29 June 2019. 
But said it wouldnt pay for anything further. Mr D had actually incurred charges up until 
December 2019. He said that when hed faced eviction he had to act swiftly to secure new 
accommodation and had to take a property where rent was due to/through December 2019  
Mr D said he wouldnt have had any extra costs if Ageas had not caused delays to the 
reinstatement works.
Mr D said Ageas had constantly delayed agreeing to variations in the works, such as for the 
kitchen. He also said it had delayed payments at times too, such that, at one stage, the 
contractor walked off site. He felt that if the claim had been handled properly, the work could 
have concluded by June 2019 at the latest. Ageas said the limit for alternative 
accommodation (AA) had been reached and exceeded in January 2019. But it accepted 
there had been some delays  which had prompted it to cover AA costs to 29 June 2019. It 
noted though that there was a distinct lack of any work having been done at the property 
before April 2019, and the contractor, when it walked off-site, would never have had 
payment by that time anyway. Even if they should have done, Ageas said, the fact that 
nothing substantial had been done meant there was always going to have been a delay. 
Ageas said this specific subject was discussed with the loss assessor at a meeting and it 
was agreed that whilst it would cover AA costs until June 2019, the loss assessor would tell 
Mr D that he would be responsible for any costs thereafter.
During the course of the claim an issue also arose about flooring which needed replacing in 
the property. Ageas said it would only contribute to the replacement cost, rather than cover 
all of it. It said this was because not all of the flooring was damaged. Mr D was not happy 
with that. 
Mr D complained to us. He said he wanted Ageas to pay him the £3,582.91 it had, 
effectively, withheld from the flooring settlement. He also asked it reimburse him £35,216.65 
being the cost hed incurred for alternative accommodation into December 2019.
Our Investigator felt that Ageas had settled things fairly and reasonably. So she didnt 
recommend that it pay anything more to Mr D. Mr D was unhappy. His complaint was 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
I felt Ageas should be paying for the flooring, because the flooring had been one continuous 
piece with no break. I also felt Ageas should be looking to at least contribute to Mr Ds AA 
costs, because there had been delays and the policy wording also appeared to support that 
a further payment was due. I had our Investigator contact Ageas to see if, in respect of either 
of these points, it was prepared to make an offer of settlement. Ageas said it was not.
Regarding the flooring, Ageas said Mr Ds loss assessor had agreed to its position on the 
flooring in a meeting. Ageas said it, therefore, failed to see why an agreement would have 
been made if there were indeed no natural breaks in the flooring.
Turning to the alternative accommodation, Ageas only replied regarding the comments I had 
made about what the policy seemed to allow. In that respect Ageas said the policy defines 
that the maximum claim limit is the most that will be paid regarding any one claim  and this 
is reflected and shown in the policy schedule  which here totalled £70,000, and which had 
been exceeded.
As Ageas wasnt minded to make any offer of settlement, the complaint came back to me for 
further review. Having reviewed it I felt Ageas should be paying the outstanding amount for 
the flooring, plus interest* and £500 compensation. I also felt Ageas should be paying a 
further £23,557.58, plus interest* to Mr D in respect of AA costs. So I issued a provisional 
decision, my findings of which were:
Flooring
Despite Ageas seemingly carefully worded response to my enquiry, photos of the property 
before repairs began show there were no natural breaks in the flooring  as shown in its 
report dated 3 January 2018. And whist its report of 27 December 2017 recorded that Mr Ds 
loss assessor agreed to it paying only 50% towards the undamaged flooring  the report immediately following that (3 January 2018) shows this point was actually in dispute. And it 
is clear to me that it remained in dispute throughout the rest of the claim. For me, this is 
simple, Mr D had flooring that ran throughout previously, he is reasonably entitled to 
replacement of the same. His reported outstanding cost for this is £3,582.91. If he shows 
proof of that cost to Ageas, it should pay that sum, plus interest* from the date it was paid by 
Mr D until settlement is made.
Alternative Accommodation
From what I have seen a significant part of the reinstatement programme was delayed  the 
kitchen. It was known in early 2019 that the kitchen would need replacing, and that there 
would be a 12-week lead time for it from the date of order. My review of the file showed that 
this replacement wasnt fully agreed until May 2019. Ive said so to Ageas  and it has not 
challenged my findings in this respect. 
Without a working kitchen in place the home could not be lived in. The kitchen was ordered 
in May and reinstatement of it began in late September 2019  roughly in line with the 
expected and foreseen 12-week lead time. It was felt that that work would only take a couple 
of weeks to complete and whilst I dont know for sure exactly when that happened, Mr D and 
his family were reportedly preparing to move home on 31 October 2019. 
I think the time to fully agree the replacement of the kitchen amounted to Ageas causing an 
unreasonable delay in the claim. I think this could and should have been avoided. And if it 
had, then the kitchen would likely have been available for its reinstatement to commence in 
June 2019. So I think, but for Ageas unreasonable delays, Mr D would have been able to 
move home in June 2019  by the end of that month at the latest.
Ageass file shows that it ultimately paid Mr Ds AA costs until the 29 June 2019. But it did 
not pay those costs at the time rent was due. Rather, Ageas had agreed to pay the rent for 
the property Mr D was staying in until 9 April 2019. When that period came to an end Ageas 
initially refused to pay anything further. And by June 2019 Mr D was facing eviction. Mr D 
clearly felt Ageas should be paying his AA costs. However, he could not stay in the property 
he had been living in as rent was overdue and he could not move home due to the 
uninhabitable state of the property. So Mr D moved to another rental property. He reports 
that he had to sign a six-month lease and so was tied into paying rent at that property until 
December 2019, even though he moved home at the end of October 2019. 
I can see that following Mr D leaving the property he had lived in during the majority of the 
claim, he told Ageas the landlord has issued proceedings against him for non-payment of 
rent. In August 2019, Ageas loss adjusters files show that a payment reflecting the 
outstanding sums through to 29 June 2019 was paid by it directly to the landlord for the 
property. And that the letting agent reported that no proceedings had been issued against 
Mr D for the outstanding sum.
Mr Ds loss assessor said Mr D is seeking a payment of £35,216.65 from Ageas for his 
losses incurred during the period April to December 2019. Im not persuaded, given what Ive 
found above, about Ageas paying rent until 29 June 2019, that it is reasonably liable for that 
total sum. I expect Ageas would also argue that it is not liable for costs beyond 
31 October 2019 when Mr D moved home. But I think he was under significant pressure in 
June 2019 to find somewhere to live. And he knew that would be needed for several months 
at least. So I think Mr D likely acted reasonably then to secure a six-month short term let. 
Which means I dont think Ageas can reasonably decline liability for the rental costs incurred 
by Mr D in November and December 2019. The rent Ageas paid for 10 April to 29 June 2019 totalled £11,659.07. Deducting this from 
Mr Ds requested cost for that period April to December 2019 leaves a total of £23,557.58. 
For a six-month period that breaks down to £3,926.26 a month. Which is less than the sum 
Ageas was paying up until 29 June 2019, which was £4,333.30 per month. 
Therefore, based on the delay regarding the kitchen alone and the sums paid by Ageas and 
reportedly incurred by Mr D, I think Ageas should be paying Mr D a further £23,557.58. with 
interest being applied on each monthly sum of £3,926.26, starting with the first of these 
sums on 30 June 2019, and the second on 30 July 2019, and so on thereafter, each until 
settlement is made by Ageas.
Now I know that Ageas will argue that it met its policy liability for AA with payments it had 
made to January 2019. And that by paying rent until June 2019 its liability was exceeded. 
But when an insurer delays a claim, as Ive found Ageas did here, it cant fairly and 
reasonably rely on the policy terms to avoid paying further sums due on account of its delay. 
But, in any event, I dont think Ageas has correctly applied its policy wording here.
The policy wording applicable here states that the most the insurer will pay for AA, in any 
one period of insurance, is that set out in the schedule. Which, to me, means that the sum 
Mr D was entitled to for AA costs renewed each year with the policy  because each renewal 
is a different period of insurance. And the schedule is issued in respect of that years cover. 
I know Ageas feels that this is incorrect. Ageas says the schedule shows the maximum claim 
limit for each section of cover, including AA. And that the policy defines the term maximum 
claim limit to be the most the insurer will pay under any one claim. So Ageas feels that as 
the maximum limit is applied to each claim  and here there is only one claim  its limit of 
liability for AA costs does not renew each year. I think Ageas is wrong in this respect.
In my view the specific wording that applies for the AA cover does not restrict Ageas liability 
to the maximum claim limit. Despite what the schedule says, the policy wording for the AA 
cover does not refer to it being dealt with in line with the policy definition of maximum claim 
limit. Rather the policy chooses to refer to Ageas liability for AA in reference to what it will 
pay during any one period of insurance.
So the policy wording, in my view, widens the cover available to the policyholder when it 
comes to AA from that which may apply elsewhere, to other sections of cover in the policy, 
where the maximum claim limit applies. If Ageas should further disagree with this, Id think 
that likely then means the policy, in this respect is unclear. As Ageas is aware, if a policy is 
unclear, then the interpretation that is most favourable to the policyholder is seen to apply. 
All of which, in my view, means that Mr D, in respect of this claim for fire, was entitled to 
cover for costs up to £70,000 during each policy year over which he and his family could not 
live in their home due to the insured damaged. The policy renewed on 13 January each year 
 so as of 29 June 2019, assuming a spend of £4,333,30 each month starting on 10 January 
just before the renewal date, Ageas had paid £24,568.97, for Mr D to live elsewhere. Which 
meant that Mr D still had an entitlement under the policy of around £45,000 for the remainder 
of that period of insurance/policy year. Based on Mr Ds reported cots, that was more than 
sufficient to cover his outlay incurred when a new six-month let had to be arranged in 
June 2019.
In short, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Ageas to say its liability for AA costs was 
met in January 2019 and exceeded by its payments for rent up to 29 June 2019. Therefore, 
even if Ageas disagrees with what I have said about it delaying the claim, I think it should still 
be meeting Mr Ds reasonable costs for living elsewhere under the policy. And, as Ive said 
above, I think that reasonable cost is £23,557.58 and Ageas should pay this sum, plus 
interest* (as also mentioned and explained above).Compensation
I realise this has been a difficult time for Mr D. I accept that the reinstatement of his home 
was unreasonably delayed by Ageas by around four to five months. And that Mr D had to 
move out of his AA, and find somewhere else to live, under somewhat difficult 
circumstances. I think Ageas should pay Mr D £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him. 
Mr D accepted my findings. Ageas objected to them in part. But it did not object to or make 
any comment on my findings on the flooring or compensation.
Ageas focus fell on my findings about its liability for further AA costs. In response to those 
findings Ageas included a quote from a senior member of staff who had attended a meeting 
in 2020 with various claim representatives, including Mr Ds loss assessor. In respect of that 
meeting the senior staff member recalled what was discussed about the works, delays and 
liability for further costs, and offered his view about how that all relates to the provisional 
findings issued. In summary:
All in attendance, including Mr Ds representatives, agreed that the amount, over the 
policy limit, which Ageas had paid to that date, was reasonable.
All agreed that the works, including the kitchen, should have completed by the end of 
June 2019.  
As that fact and agreement has not changed, it cant now be agreed that Ageas is 
responsible for more costs.
It is being overlooked that in May 2019 the repairs in the rest of the house had not been 
progressed  so little had been done that the work could not possibly have been 
completed by the end of June 2019.
Those works werent delayed because of the kitchen, they were delayed by contractors 
employed by Mr D/his loss assessor.
In any event, notification of the damage to the kitchen was delayed, only being raised in 
January 2019; it should have been raised earlier, meaning it could have been considered 
and ordered earlier. This delay  by Mr Ds contractor/loss assessor  was a contributory 
factor to the kitchen not being ordered until May 2019.
Mr Ds contractor and loss assessor caused delays between October 2018 to April 2019 
and it has already contributed to extra AA costs to the end of June  so making it pay 
more is not fair and reasonable.  
In respect of my findings about the policy wording; Ageas also objected to what Id said. 
Ageas felt I had disregarded its explanation about what the policy schedule shows. It said 
the detail in the schedule is specifically added to aid clarification and interpretation of the 
cover. And, Ageas said, the policy wording contains a clear direction to check the policy 
schedule to see the sums applicable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr D has accepted my findings and Ageas has not objected to what I said regarding the 
flooring and compensation, I wont discuss those issues further. Other than to confirm that 
my view on them has not changed and my related provisional findings are now those of this 
my final decision. I can understand that Ageas, with its senior members recollection of the meeting in 2020, 
would object to my findings regarding AA costs. But I was aware of Ageas report of that 
meeting, although not that it had come from its senior staff member, when I issued my 
provisional decision  some details of the agreements reportedly reached in it were, and still 
remain, in my background above. What was of note for me though, when making my 
provisional decision, in reviewing Ageas file, was that whilst this meeting was often 
mentioned, no minutes from it were provided for my consideration. And nor, despite the 
seemingly crucial decisions that were made regarding Mr Ds, as opposed to Ageas, liability 
for not insubstantial sums of money, was there any sign of any written agreement being 
made of the position reportedly reached. And whilst Ageas has a seemingly clear view of 
what was agreed in that meeting, Mr D and his loss assessor seem to recall it differently, 
because a request for further payment, resulting in a complaint, was made. 
But, in light of the comments reportedly coming from a senior member of Ageas staff, who 
has confirmed they were present at the meeting, Ive reviewed my findings. However, my 
view hasnt changed. 
It is possible that this claim could have been handled better by all of those involved, that 
delays had occurred earlier in the claim which Ageas was not responsible for, and that if 
these had been avoided the claim would have concluded earlier. But the fact of the matter is 
that Ageas delays in early 2019 had, in my view, an ultimate and final impact on the claim. A 
property without a kitchen, regardless of the rest of the state of the home, is uninhabitable. 
Ageas wasnt responsible for progress of the repairs in general and couldnt prevent Mr Ds 
contractor and/or loss assessor causing delays  but Ageas was responsible for its own 
actions. And, Ive found that in early 2019 it did not do enough to progress the claim for the 
kitchen, such that its order and, as a result, its installation was delayed. If that had been 
avoided and the property was still otherwise uninhabitable, then my view might well have 
been different. But, in my view, as a direct result of Ageas delays, the kitchen installation 
couldnt begin until September 2019. This caused Mr D to fairly and reasonably need 
somewhere else to stay. Its not fair and reasoble that he bears the costs for the results of 
Ageas delay. 
Whilst I note Ageas explanation of the policy wording, I do think its reply largely 
demonstrates that, when taking the policy documents as a whole, a lack of clarity exists. In 
short for claims which span more than one period of insurance  which a single claim for AA 
often does  referring to liability in terms of both what is due in any one period of insurance 
and the amount due under any one claim, causes a lack of clarity. However, as my view on 
the delays hasnt changed, my view on Ageas policy wording has become less important.
I appreciate that Ageas will be disappointed with my final view on this, however, my thoughts 
have not changed from those set out provisionally. As such, and having considered Ageas 
response to my provisional findings, I can confirm they have not changed and they, along 
with my comments here, are now the findings of this my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr D:
£3,582.91 for flooring, plus interest* from the date Mr D paid this sum until settlement is 
made  subject to him providing proof of the same.
£23,557.58 for six-months of reported AA costs incurred between 30 June 2019 and 
29 December 2019, plus interest* on each monthly sum of £3,926.26, applicable on each 
individually, beginning for the first sum on 30 June 2019, the second on 30 July, and so 
on, until settlement is made. Subject to Mr D providing proof of his outlay.
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Ageas to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman