DRN-2735568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out the PPI in September 1998.
Mr and Mrs O paid a monthly amount, initially £10.40, for the policy. It covered Mr O only
and would have paid out a monthly benefit amount of £200. If Mr O was too ill to work or
made involuntarily redundant  the policy would have paid out this amount for up to 12
months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision 2 March 2021 and explained why I think the complaint should 
be upheld to give Santander and Mr and Mrs O an opportunity to respond. Below is an 
extract of what I said:
Mr and Mrs O said they thought the policy was sold during a meeting, but they also said that
they thought it was sold with their first mortgage with Santander in 1983. So, Im mindful
Mr and Mrs O dont seem to remember how the sale of this policy came about and for this
reason, I dont think I can rely on what Mr and Mrs O say was discussed in the meeting they
have referred to.
Santander has provided evidence that suggests the policy was sold by direct mail in 1998
and it doesnt appear as though this was related to any additional lending at the time. So, I
think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O applied for the policy as a result of the direct
mail and I havent seen anything to suggest they discussed the application with a
representative of Santander at the time.
Santander says that its treated the sale as advised because it doesnt know whether Mr and
Mrs O spoke to anyone at Santander or not. But if the sale was completed by direct mail, I
think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs O would not have spoken to anyone about it. So, I
dont think Santander would have checked the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs O. But
Santander still needed to give Mr and Mrs O enough information about the policy so they
could decide whether to take it or not.
Santander hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form Mr and Mrs O
completed. Because of this, I cant know precisely what information Mr and Mrs O were
given. As a result, I have to think about whether Mr and Mrs O would have been made
aware of the key terms that might have mattered to them most. And, if not, whether any
missing information would have changed their decision to take the policy.
Over the years, weve seen a number of Santanders paper-based applications for PPI and,
in my experience, its possible the terms around pre-existing medical conditions would not
have been made clear enough. The policy terms say that any condition that Mr O knew
about before the policy start date would not be covered. And I think this would have been
important to Mr and Mrs O because he says he had a chronic condition at the time of sale.
Santander considered this but said the terms around pre-existing medical conditions would
have been explained during the sale. It said it wanted to know when Mr Os condition was
diagnosed, how the condition was managed, and it also wanted Mr O to provide evidence of
it.
Mr O told us that he was diagnosed with his condition in 1979  several years before the PPI
was sold. He also says he had surgery for the condition a few years after he was diagnosed
and that he still needed to take pain relief after the surgery.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because they thought Mr Os surgery was
successful which meant he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition at the time of sale.
And Ive considered this, but I dont think this means Mr O was no longer experiencing
problems as a result of his condition. From the information Ive seen, the condition was still
troubling Mr O  he says he was still taking medication to control the pain after the surgery.
And that he even attempted to make a claim on this policy for the condition. Santander has
provided a record of Mr O enquiring about making a claim, which supports what hes said.
So, I think Mr O was still affected by condition at the time of sale.
Mr O has been consistent about having a chronic condition and hes confirmed that it was a
pre-existing condition. So, I dont think its necessary to ask Mr O to provide evidence of the
condition. While I accept that symptoms of the condition Mr O had can vary. Mr Os condition
was so serious that it resulted in surgery before the policy was sold. The effects of the
condition seem to have been ongoing, so I think its likely Mr O would have been concerned
about the impact it might have on him in later years. And if Mr and Mrs O had been made
aware the policy would not have covered Mr O for his chronic medical condition  I think its
likely that information would have put him off taking the policy at the time it was sold.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O could have claimed for any other condition he developed  if
it was not caused by his pre-existing condition. But Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs O
would have thought the policy was good value for money if it had been pointed out clearly to
them that he would not be able to make a successful claim for any time off work that resulted
from his pre-existing condition. And I dont think theyd have agreed to the PPI if this had
been made clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O did not reply to my provisional decision, but Santander responded to confirm 
they do not accept my findings. Santander raised concerns about the basis of the sale and 
that they havent seen any evidence of Mr Os pre-existing medical condition. 
While Ive considered what Santander says about treating it as an advised sale, I dont think 
it matters either way. Santander says that if it was a non-advised sale, the policy summary 
and document explained the terms surrounding pre-existing medical conditions. And that 
Mr and Mrs O would have made the decision to take the policy after having been provided 
with this information. But whether it was an advised or non-advised sale, the specific terms 
should have been highlighted clearly to Mr and Mrs O and looking at the documents 
provided, I dont think the relevant terms were made clear enough.Ive also considered Santanders request for evidence of Mr Os pre-existing medical 
condition again, but I still dont think its necessary to obtain this. I have no reason to doubt 
that Mr O has the medical condition hes advised of. Mr O has been consistent in his 
submissions, both to Santander and to the ombudsman service, that he had the condition 
before the sale of the policy. And Mr Os attempted claim is evidence that the condition 
continued to trouble him after the point of sale.
So, for the same reasons as I explained in my provisional decision, I think the terms around 
pre-existing medical conditions would have put Mr and Mrs O off taking the policy if theyd 
been given better information about them.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs O in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs O the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman