DRN-3979515
The complaint
Mr W says Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy after his cars engine was flooded.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr W drove his car through a pool of standing water that he says was knee-
high. He says he didnt think there would be a problem, as hed just seen another car drive 
through it without incident. But the water splashed over his cars bonnet and the engine then 
cut out. The car was taken to a garage and Mr W was told that the engines injectors were 
full of water. Accredited declined to cover the claim as it said Mr W had failed to safeguard 
the car by driving it through a flood. It said the policys general conditions required him to 
take reasonable steps to protect the car and not cause deliberate damage to it.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. She thought Accredited had acted 
reasonably. Miss A (Mr Ws partner and a named driver on the policy) pointed out that Mr W 
had extensive experience of driving in different locations and conditions and that he was 
qualified to drive various specialist vehicles. She thought it was ridiculous to suggest that 
hed deliberately damaged the car. She said Accredited hadnt considered these points or 
others set out in his complaint to it. 
The investigator said Mr W had told Accredited how deep the water was and also that other 
drivers had chosen not to drive through it. Miss A said that was only because Mr W had 
warned them against it, having already done so himself. Miss A also said that Accredited 
hadnt inspected the car, so it didnt know what the damage to it was.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the policy is clear about drivers being required to take reasonable steps to protect 
their cars, which would include not taking risks that might damage it. Most policies contain 
similar conditions. I can see why Accredited thought that driving through standing water, 
rather than avoiding it, meant Mr W took a risk (thereby not safeguarding his car) given that 
even a small amount of water can seriously damage an engine. 
I dont think its relevant that the car in front of Mr Ws car appeared to have navigated the 
flood successfully. Mr W says that car was much smaller than his, so I think it would have 
displaced less water. And the other car may have had problems later on caused by water 
ingress. I think the point is that - regardless of the other cars experience - the water had an 
immediate impact on Mr Ws car, which could have been avoided.  
Mr W doesnt know how many other drivers decided not to drive through the flood that day. 
He can only comment on the ones he saw and / or spoke to whilst waiting for his car to be 
recovered. I think its more likely than not that other drivers who approached the water at 
different times would have decided to avoid it. No doubt some would have driven through it, 
but I think each driver who did so took a chance that their car might sustain water damage. 
Its clear that Mr W is a highly trained and skilled driver who will have made many decisions 
about road risks in various terrains. And in my opinion, he wouldnt deliberately have set out 
to damage his car. But the issue for Accredited to consider was whether on the day of the 
incident he put his car at risk. Mr W could have avoided the flood, but he decided to drive 
through it as he thought it would be safe to do so. Unfortunately, that wasnt the case, so I 
think it was reasonable for Accredited to decide it wasnt going to cover the claim.  
During a call with Mr W, one of Accrediteds advisors said shed be contacting his garage to 
check what the damage to the car was. Theres nothing to show that she did that, so I can 
see why Miss A has queried it. But Accredited decided shortly after speaking to Mr W that it 
wasnt going to cover the claim, so it no longer mattered to it what the damage was  it 
wasnt going to arrange for repairs or offer a total loss settlement sum for the cars loss.   
I think Mr W and Miss A have faced a great deal of upset and inconvenience as the result of 
the loss of the car, as Mr W used it to commute, and they also have a young family to 
transport. I sympathise greatly with the position theyve found themselves in - but as I dont 
think Accredited acted unreasonably, I cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman