DRN-3436903
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In March 2019, Mr A received a payment of £1,500.00, into his account. £1,000.00 of these 
funds were immediately withdrawn and the remaining £500.00 was transferred to a third 
party. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment to Mr As account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of 
fraud. Lloyds reviewed Mr As account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close 
Mr As account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr A complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in March 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr A said that he had no knowledge of the fraudulent activity which took place on his 
account. He said he lost his card but didnt report it as he thought it would turn up. He went 
on to say that he subsequently received an email, which he thought was from Lloyds, asking 
him to enter his details for security purposes. These details included his personal 
identification number (PIN), card numbers, date of birth, address etc. He said he provided 
this information because he was young, nave and new to banking. 
Upon speaking to our adjudicator, Mr A elaborated on this saying that the email he received, 
which he now believes was part of a phishing scam, was very convincing and as he thought 
this was linked to his lost card he gave the information requested willingly. Finally, Mr A said 
that he wasnt able to provide a copy of the phishing email he says he received as it was 
sent to an old email address.  
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But Im afraid that, on the face of things, what hes 
said is implausible. I say this because the funds which entered Mr As account were 
withdrawn at a cash machine using his genuine card and transferred to a third-party, using 
internet banking with Mr As online banking credentials.
Mr A has equivocated on what he believed with regards to the whereabouts of his card at the 
time he purportedly received the email he says he believed was from Lloyds. But even if I 
were to give Mr A the benefit of the doubt here and accept his card was lost and ended up in 
the possession of an opportunistic fraudster, this still doesnt explain how someone who just 
happened to find Mr As card would have been able to obtain his email address. 
So I fail to see how someone who simply found Mr As card would have been able to email 
Mr A send him the email, he says he received, asking for his details before using the card to 
withdraw most of the fraudulent funds from a cash machine. And even allowing for what     
Mr A describes as him being nave about banking, I have to question how and why Mr A 
could reasonably have believed Lloyds was emailing him about his lost card when he says 
that he didnt report the card lost in the first place, as he expected it to turn up.
Furthermore, Mr A hasnt really provided a plausible explanation as to how any fraudster 
would have been able to obtain his online banking details to login to his internet banking and 
set up the payee £500 was transferred to either. While Mr A has spoken about the personal 
details he shared as a result of the email he says he received, hes not said anything about 
sharing his online banking login identification or security details. So its difficult to see how a 
third party would have been able to make the transfer in question without further co-
operation from Mr A.Finally, I also have to question why Mr A didnt retain a copy of the email he says led him to 
share his details. I accept that this happened three years ago and that he may have since 
changed email address. But the fact remains Mr A knew his account was under investigation 
in March 2019. And Im concerned that he never mentioned the email he says he received, 
when questioned about the fraud by Lloyds at this time, or retained a copy of it, given he 
attributed responsibility for what happened on his account to it. In these circumstances, I 
would have expected Mr A to have retained the email given the importance hes placed on it.
Im afraid that the available evidence the available evidence simply doesnt support what    
Mr A has said. And him being unable to provide anything at all to corroborate what, on the 
face of things, appears an implausible version of events means that I cant reasonably 
conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not he 
was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr A was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr A might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman