DRN-2912688
The complaint
The Trust has complained about Phoenix Life Limiteds refusal to extend the settlors life 
assurance policy. The settlor, Mr M, brought the complaint to us together with his son Mr M1 
who is one of the trustees. The other trustee has consented to us looking into the complaint.
What happened
Mr M took out a life insurance policy in March 1981. The policy started on 9 March 1981 and 
provided cover for 10 years. The policy gave Mr M a continuation option to take out a new 
policy on the tenth anniversary for a further 10 years without having to furnish further 
evidence as to the state of his health. 
Mr M activated his continuation option in 1991, 2001 and most recently in 2011. The policy 
was placed into trust in 2002. At the time of extending his cover in 2011 the sum assured 
was £91,550.00, for a monthly premium of £345.98.
With the anniversary of his policy approaching, Mr M asked Phoenix about the continuation 
of his policy past March 2021. Phoenix confirmed in writing to Mr M both in March 2020 and 
January 2021 that he could extend his policy until his 70th birthday. The letters also said the 
premiums hed pay, and the sum assured would remain the same.
In February 2021, Mr M contacted Phoenix again asking for confirmation his policy was 
being extended but this time he was told it wasnt possible due to his age. Unhappy hed 
previously been told this could be done Mr M raised a complaint.
Phoenix said theyd given Mr M incorrect information both in March 2020 and January 2021 
regarding the renewal option for his policy. They upheld his complaint and paid Mr M £250 
by way of an apology. However, they said as Mr M was older than the maximum age of 61 at 
the commencement date of the new policy, there was no option to renew available to him.
Phoenix also said Mr M had been incorrectly advised his premium would remain the same, 
explaining that if he had been eligible to renew his policy, the premium required to support 
the sum assured would be recalculated and an increase in premium would be likely as had 
been the case when the policy was extended previously.
Mr M disagreed with Phoenixs response, so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things but didnt think Phoenix had acted fairly or in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. He thought the terms and conditions were clear that Mr M 
could extend his cover up to the anniversary of the policy after his 70th birthday.
On the request of our investigator, Phoenix calculated the new policy premium that would be 
due should Mr Ms cover be extended that date. They also confirmed if the policy was 
reactivated, back dated premiums from March 2021 would be due. But they remained of the 
opinion Mr M wasnt eligible for his cover to be extended. 
Our investigator didnt agree with Phoenix and he said they should provide Mr M cover up to 
9 March 2023 on the new terms theyd provided. In addition, he didnt think £250 was 
enough to fairly reflect the distress the situation had caused Mr M. He felt having led Mr M to 
believe cover could be extended on at least three occasions Phoenix should pay Mr M a 
further £250.
Mr M accepted our investigators view but Phoenix didnt, saying whilst they understood our 
decision, their policy expert had a different view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Because the complaint has been brought by a trust, I cant award compensation for distress. 
And, as Ive explained further below, I think the inconvenience to the trust is limited. So my 
initial thought was that I couldnt direct Phoenix to pay the additional £250 our investigator 
had recommended. I contacted Mr M1 to explain this, and hes accepted it. So Ive continued 
with my decision on this basis. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ive looked at the policy terms that were issued when Mr M took out his policy, these are the 
same terms that have remained in place to date. They say: 
7. Continuation Option
(iii) (a) the expiry date of the new policy shall be the tenth anniversary of the Expiry 
Date of this policy or the anniversary of this policy next following the seventieth 
birthday of the Life Assurance, if earlier.
I dont consider this term to be ambiguous and Im satisfied in the circumstances of Mr Ms 
policy, it allows him the option to extend his cover until 9 March 2023  the first anniversary 
of his policy after his 70th birthday.
Phoenix say the minimum term allowed for this policy is 10 years and that the maximum age 
for renewal is 61 years of age on a life assureds next birthday, so Mr M isnt eligible to 
renew. 
But whilst Phoenix say their product management team have confirmed this eligibility criteria 
needs to be met for a policy to be extended, Ive not been provided any evidence to show 
this is the case or that these terms were brought to Mr Ms attention throughout the lifespan 
of the policy. 
Furthermore, the terms of Mr Ms policy simply dont say this, so I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to rely on this eligibility criteria as a reason for denying Mr M the extension that 
his policy allows.
Phoenix have already calculated the premium due should the policy be reinstated to be 
£555.43 per month. Theyve also confirmed Mr M would need to pay backdated premiums of 
£555.43 per month from March 2021 to the date the policy is reinstated. 
Should Mr M agree to these terms, it follows I find that Phoenix should reinstate Mr Ms 
policy to cover him until 9 March 2023.
Prior to Mr M raising his complaint, Phoenix told him in writing on two occasions he would be 
able to extend his policy before informing him this was not the case. Phoenix have already 
paid Mr M £250 in recognition of the poor service he received. However, Mr M is 
complaining on behalf of The Trust  and so I can only consider the impact of Phoenixs 
errors on The Trust. I can see Phoenixs errors have caused H some inconvenience  as 
trustees, Mr M and Mr M1 have had to write a number of letters and make phone calls to 
clarify the situation. But Im satisfied the £250 already paid is fair compensation for this 
inconvenience.  Putting things right
In order to put things right, I instruct Phoenix Life Limited to:
On the acceptance of terms by the trustees of The Trust, reinstate or set up an 
identical life assurance policy to cover Mr M until 9 March 2023 for £91,550.00 for a 
monthly premium of £555.43. Phoenix are entitled to claim backdated payments of 
the same amount for each month from March 2021 when the policy ceased to date in 
order to bring the premiums up to date.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and
require Phoenix Life Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask The Trust to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman