DRN-3390491
The complaint
Mr B complains he lost out financially because Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited didnt 
tell him about a known issue with its telematics motor insurance system.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr B took out a telematics motor insurance policy. It was arranged and 
administered by Endsleigh (operating under a trading name). The policy required a 
telematics box to be fitted to his car. It monitored aspects of the cars use including speed, 
acceleration and time of use. The data was used to inform the price charged for the cover. 
In February 2021 Mr B contacted Endsleigh, via a live chat system, to explain the telematics 
box had been setting off his cars alarm. He explained a garage had charged him more than 
£400 to diagnose the problem. He asked to be reimbursed those funds. Mr B asked if he 
could be covered without the box fitted to the car. As he wasnt provided with an answer he 
cancelled the policy. He refused to pay an outstanding balance of about £70. That included 
various cancellation fees.  
Mr B went on to complain. He said Endsleigh knew the telematics system could cause 
problems with alarms. He felt it had deliberately withheld that information from him when 
selling the cover. He was unhappy with the service provided by its live chat system.
In March 2021 Endsleigh responded to Mr Bs complaint. It said information from his garage 
didnt support his claim that the box had caused the alarm to go off. Instead it felt the report 
indicated the problem was caused by water in the cars boot. It didnt accept it had 
deliberately withheld information on the problem. Endsleigh said cancellation fees had been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions. It accepted there had been a failure to initially 
log Mr Bs concerns. To recognise that it waived £25 of the amount it said he owed  leaving 
a balance of about £48.
Mr B then provided further information from his garage. In response Endsleigh offered to pay 
50% (£120) of garages investigation charge, waive a cancellation charge of £80 and pay a 
further £100 distress and inconvenience. That would mean instead of an outstanding 
balance Mr B would receive a payment of about £250. It also said it would pay a further £50 
refund for the box on its return. 
That revised offer wasnt accepted by Mr B. He felt it wasnt enough to compensate him for 
the disturbance caused by the alarm going off and resulting problems with his neighbours. 
He was still upset about Endsleigh withholding information from him when selling the policy. 
He wanted it to reimburse him more of the garages charge, not just £120. 
After our investigator became involved Endsleigh agreed to pay a further £120 towards the 
garages costs. That would mean the full £240 investigation costs being reimbursed. The 
payment to Mr B would be about £372  plus a further £50 on return of the box. 
Mr B didnt accept that. He asked that Endsleigh reimburse a further £228 charged by the 
garage. That was for work related to the boot of the car. Our investigator didnt recommend 
Endsleigh cover those costs. He disagreed with the investigators opinion that he had 
benefited from the work on the boot. He said the repair was directly linked to the alarm issue 
so Endsleigh should reimburse the cost. The complaint was then passed to me to decide. 
In February 2022 I explained my initial thoughts to Mr B and Endsleigh. I said I accepted its 
possible, had Endsleigh told Mr B the telematics box might cause problems with the alarm, 
that he wouldnt have asked the garage to investigate. I said if that had been the case, he 
wouldnt have been charged £240 for it investigating the alarm fault. I said as Endsleighs 
agreed to reimburse him that cost its not an issue I need to consider.
I explained I understood the key outstanding issue for Mr B to be Endsleigh not agreeing to 
pay him £228 charged, as part of the same investigation, for repairs to the cars boot latch, 
drainage pipe and wiring. I accepted it was possible Mr B wouldnt, without the alarm issue, 
have paid for repairs to the boot latch, drainage pipe and wiring in February 2021.
I said, however, the drainage pipe problem, according to his garages invoice, was causing 
water to leak into the boot and latch. I noted water had contaminated wiring. So I said I 
thought it most likely he would, at some point, have become aware of the problem anyway  
either from water becoming visible in the boot or from an electrical problem arising from the 
contaminated wiring.
So I concluded it was most likely Mr B would have had to pay for that work anyway  just at 
some later date. I said as he had the benefit of what seemed to be necessary work it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to require Endsleigh to reimburse its cost.
I concluded that overall I thought Endsleigh had already done enough to make up for any 
mistakes it might have made. It waived a policy cancellation fee. It will refund a £50 deposit 
charge for the telematics box on its return. I said I had considered the impact of the alarm 
going off regularly but felt £125 was fair compensation. I asked Mr B and Endsleigh to 
provide any further information they would like me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my initial thoughts Mr B denied he had benefited from the work on the boot. 
He said the boot latch repair was only carried out as the garage believed it was the cause of 
the alarm problem. 
Mr B provided an email from the garage. It explains a boot catch can sometimes activate 
alarms, so it had to be replaced to rule it out as a cause. It goes on to confirm the telematics 
box was the cause of the alarm problem.  
I accept the telematics box being responsible for the alarm issue. Ive considered Mr B and 
his garages latest comments. But I still think its most likely he would have needed to have 
the boot related repairs made at some point anyway. 
The garages invoice for the work says, stripped boot area and found boot drainage tube 
leaking and water leaking into the boot, found water in boot latch. It says also wiring 
repair required due to water contamination.
The drainage tube was leaking, causing water to build up in the boot. That water was 
contaminating some wiring. As Ive said its most likely, in my opinion, Mr B would have 
discovered this problem at some point. That would have been through becoming aware of the damp boot or experiencing electrical problems from the contaminated wiring. It seems 
unlikely to me that he wouldnt then arrange for repairs to the drainage tube and wiring. 
I note the garages recent explanation that the boot latch had to be replaced to rule it out as 
a cause. However, its earlier invoice explains water, due to the leaking drainage tube, was 
found in the latch. I cant know if it was damaged by the point the garage replaced it. But it 
seems likely continued exposure to water would lead to damage, to its electronics or other 
mechanisms, requiring replacement or repair. 
So I still think its most likely Mr B would have had to pay for the boot related work at some 
point. As he had the benefit of what seems to be necessary work it wouldnt be reasonable 
for me to require Endsleigh to reimburse the cost.
I havent seen anything that changes my mind on the other parts of the complaint. 
Endsleighs offered enough to put right and recognise the impact of anything it got wrong.  
So it will need to, if hasnt already, pay Mr B £125 compensation, reimburse him £240 for the 
investigation, waive the £50 cancellation fee and refund the £50 fee for the telematics box on 
its return.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited needs to (if it hasnt 
already):
pay Mr B £125 compensation, 
reimburse him £240 for the investigation, 
waive the £50 cancellation fee and 
refund the £50 fee for the telematics box if he returns it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman