DRN-3988328
The complaint
Mr J complains that he received poor service from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in connection 
with disputed transactions on his credit card.
What happened
Mr J had a credit card from HSBC. His account been subjected to several frauds in the past.
In April 2021, transactions totalling £265.64 were considered fraudulent and were held
pending by HSBC. On 4 October 2021, these amounts were debited to Mr Js credit card
account. He then complained to HSBC who wrote to him on 11 November 2021 and
refunded £265.64. Following Mr Js further complaint to HSBC, they said the amount was
due to be paid by him and asked him for agreement to debit his account. Mr J didnt agree
with that and brought his complaint to us.
Mr J said HSBC had told him he had advised them that the transactions were fraudulent -
and he hadnt. He said that HSBCs letter dated 11 November 2021 said the matter had
been closed  and therefore he couldnt see why he had to pay £265.64. He couldnt see
how it had taken so long to resolve the matter  when it was first raised in April 2021. Hed
had several confusing calls with HSBC and couldnt work out what was going on. He was
struggling financially and cant afford to pay the amount if it was debited to his credit card.
He said the amount should be written off.
HSBC issued two final responses. On 11 November 2021, they said an issue regarding
earlier frauds for £1103.34 and £161.99 were resolved and closed (not the subject of this
complaint). And said that the other fraudulent transactions were in pending status and after
the merchant claimed the amount, his account had been debited. They credited Mr Js
account with £265.64 and said they needed to investigate further. They paid compensation
of £100 for inconvenience.
In February 2022, a second final response was issued. This said theyd found the
transactions to be genuine and wanted to re-debit Mr Js account. They asked Mr J when it
would be OK to debit his account  as he had said he was in financial difficulty.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said HSBC acted reasonably. She said
HSBC had found the transactions to be genuine and Mr J had to repay the amount due. But
HSBC should work with Mr J to agree a repayment programme for the amount.
Mr J didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Ive read Mr Js complaint and the file - and I can see where hes coming from here. I asked
HSBC several questions and in all honesty, I couldnt get any clarity about what happened.
So I can see why Mr J was also confused. We asked HSBC for:
- Evidence regarding the decision/inquiries about the disputed transactions; including
how they validated them as genuine. We saw a document from the fraud team, but
this wasnt clear.
- Evidence of communications (e.g. letters, emails, texts) sent to Mr J over the period
between April 2021 and February 2022 advising him clearly about what had
happened and why (apart from the two final responses). None could be produced.
- Calls between HSBC and Mr J between April 2021 and November 2021. None could
be produced.
- Why it took from April 2021 to February 2022 to decide the transactions were
genuine. Unfortunately, we couldnt get a clear answer.
Im sorry to say that in each case, it is not clear what happened. Im not able to say that
HSBC were wrong to decide that the transactions were genuine  thats a commercial
decision theyve taken, and I cant overturn it. But Im persuaded that the communications
from HSBC werent clear and not misleading throughout the period  and this led to
confusion, and ultimately, to Mr Js complaint.
In particular, HSBC didnt provide us with any communication with Mr J between April 2021
and November 2021 - other than the final response dated 11 November 2021. I think it
would be reasonable to have expected HBC to advise Mr J about what was going on with
the transactions - but didnt. HSBC couldnt produce the calls with Mr J either  it maybe that
these set things out, but without the calls, Im persuaded to accept Mr Js version of events 
that the calls were confusing, particularly around whether the transactions were fraudulent or
not, and whether it was he or HSBC who had said so.
I must say I found HSBCs first final response dated 11 November 2021 to be confusing  as
Mr J has said. I can see it could be interpreted that the matter was closed  as it said
would like to inform you the issue is resolved. The team doesnt require any further
correspondence. I express my sincere apologies for the inconvenience caused. The letter
then goes on to address other debits on your new credit card  but doesnt distinguish
clearly between the previous, settled fraud amounts and the new ones. No amounts are
stated  which wouldve been helpful. No account number is mentioned  as there was an
old account and a new account. The letter then says a credit was applied. But it doesnt say
how much, or that it might be re-debited, or when  just that I have had also referred this
case to concern team to investigate. Compensation of £100 was paid  but its not clear
why that was, or for which fraud.
HSBC told us that the decision to credit Mr Js account at that time was the wrong one and
shouldnt have been done. And I can see that also caused confusion. And this, added to the
wording and structure of the letter, led Mr J to think that things had been closed off. He was
therefore concerned when he was later asked  in February 2022  to repay the amount.
As I have said: Im not disputing that HSBC were correct to decide the transactions were
genuine  thats their decision to take. But because of the overall communications  both the
lack of them, and their quality; and the time taken to resolve matters  I think it is only fair
that HSBC pay further compensation to Mr J. Theyve already paid £100. Given what
happened and the length of time this dispute took to resolve I think a further amount of £200
is reasonable and is in line with what we would recommend in the circumstances of this
complaint.
Mr J has said that he is in financial difficulty  and it is for HSBC to decide whether they wish
to allow Mr J a period to pay the amount of £265.64  as theyve already offered that. But its
also fair that Mr J now engages with HSBC to give his agreement to repay the amount in amutually satisfactory way.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr J accepted the findings. HSBC didnt respond.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr J accepted the provisional findings and HSBC didnt respond, my final decision is 
unchanged.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
- Pay £200 for stress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the £100 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman