DRN-2626793
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Wealth at Work Limited 
in relation to her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits. She says the advice went 
against her objectives despite Wealth at Work initially saying that the transfer was likely to 
be suitable. She also complains about the service she received from Wealth at Work before 
and after the recommendation report was issued and would like a refund of the fee she paid. 
What happened
Mrs P works for a local council and belongs to the Local Government Pension Scheme. 
However, she also held deferred benefits in a previous employers OPS. In 2015 her 
husband encountered Wealth at Work at a work based pension seminar, so by 2019 when 
he wanted to use his and his wifes OPS benefits to pay off their mortgage in order to fund 
their daughters university education and significantly reduce their outgoings, and Mrs P 
wanted to ensure the benefits of her deferred pension werent completely lost in the event of 
her death  they arranged to meet with Wealth at Work to discuss transferring their OPS 
benefits to a personal pension.
Ive set out the rest of the background here from Mrs Ps point of view, although both her and 
Mr P have made similar complaints  which weve set up individually. 
Mrs P says Wealth at Work suggested it would be able to facilitate such a transfer and 
carried out its background analysis to ensure it was in her best interests. 
In September 2019 Wealth at Work completed a defined benefit pension attitude 
questionnaire with Mr and Mrs P. This noted that they wanted to repay their outstanding 
mortgage to release over £2,000 extra income per month. Mrs Ps priorities with regards to 
her OPS benefits were later confirmed as being:
Personal control and flexibility of my pension funds.
Maximising death benefits.
The potential to retire early.
The potential to increase my pension at my realistic retirement age.
Provision for partners and dependents pension.
The retention of any guarantees.
Wealth at Work continued the process of gathering information from the scheme 
administrator and carried out its analysis. By late October 2019 Mrs P had become aware 
that Wealth at Work would be recommending that to transfer her pension wouldnt be in her 
best interests at that time. It said her and Mr P should consider taking out an interest only 
mortgage to reduce their outgoings considerably which would then allow them to fund things 
like their two daughters further education.
 
Mrs P didnt agree with the recommendation and said she was likely to transfer in any case. 
She asked Wealth at Work to complete the Professional Advice Declaration (PAD) forms to 
allow the transfer to progress. But Wealth at work said it couldnt complete the forms as that 
would mean confirming that the advice received was suitable  which as she wanted to 
invest with another provider, it wasnt able to do. 
So on 13 November 2019 Mrs P complained about the advice she was given. She said 
Wealth at Works recommendation to defer the transfer was in contradiction of her objectives 
 and it was unwilling to discuss this with her and consider any amendments. She also said 
it hadnt been possible to follow Wealth at Works additional advice to reduce their outgoings 
by taking out an interest only mortgage, as no lender they had approached had been 
prepared to offer a loan. 
And Mrs P felt that Wealth at Works actions in refusing to complete the necessary 
paperwork to be able to transfer her pension regardless wasnt reasonable. She said it 
hadnt made it clear that there might be a problem in completing the relevant advice forms if 
she should reject its advice or accept its recommendation but decide to take out a pension 
with another provider.  
Wealth at Work didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It explained its advice process and 
confirmed that its advisers cannot confirm a transfer is in a clients best interest until the 
pension transfer specialist (PTS) has carried out their analysis and given a written 
recommendation. In this case it said it believed its advice was suitable and that it wasnt in 
Mrs Ps best interest to transfer her OPS benefits at that time. It said that as Mrs P wasnt 
yet age 55, she wouldnt be able to take her tax free cash and help to pay off the mortgage 
and reduce the household outgoings.
It also explained that it was unable to sign the relevant discharge forms from the OPS. After 
various discussions regarding this matter Wealth at Work provided certain certificates to 
the scheme, confirming it had given Mrs P advice. This eventually allowed the trustees to 
pay the transfer  which was confirmed through an internal email from Wealth at Work on 
12 December 2019.
Mrs P wasnt happy with this outcome, so she brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said 
that, although Mrs Ps objectives meant she wanted to transfer, Wealth at Work was obliged 
to provide suitable advice which in this case led to it advising Mrs P not to transfer  which 
he thought wasnt unreasonable especially as the regulator had previously stated that an 
advisers starting point was to assume that a defined benefit  OPS transfer was generally 
unsuitable.
The investigator also said that there was insufficient evidence to show that Wealth at Work 
had provided poor service and had caused further stress by not completing the necessary 
paperwork for the OPS benefits to be transferred without a positive recommendation. He 
didnt think Wealth at Work had acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said Wealth at Work were fully aware of her reasons for transferring 
and her objectives at the beginning of the process, so it shouldnt have continued with the 
process knowing the outcome wouldnt be in her favour. She didnt think Wealth at Work 
should have continued to provide advice that it knew couldnt be fulfilled  such as the 
alternative of taking out an interest only mortgage. She said she couldnt agree with the 
investigators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. I know this is an outcome that will disappoint Mrs P and I have some 
sympathy for her position here  so Ill explain my reasons.
Mr P has brought a similar complaint to us which has been looked at separately and will be 
the subject of another decision. What Im considering here is in respect of the advice that 
Wealth at Work gave Mrs P. 
The suitability of Wealth at Works advice and whether it should just have carried out the 
transfer
In its keyfacts about our services and costs document, Wealth at Work said that Mrs P was 
engaging it to analyse and compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be 
paid under a defined benefit pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal 
pension scheme. 
In order to do that Wealth at Work would consider all of your relevant circumstances; have 
regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the effect of 
replacing them with the benefits and options under a personal pension schemewe will 
produce a suitability report setting out a recommendation to either transfer or retain the 
benefits of the ceding scheme.  
So I think Wealth at Work clearly set out that its intention was to conduct an in-depth 
analysis of the viability of the transfer, which it would then use in conjunction with its own 
experience and history in order to draw a conclusion about whether the transfer of Mrs Ps 
OPS benefits was in her best interests. I havent seen any evidence to show that Wealth at 
Work made any guarantees about the outcome of the process, simply that it would assess 
whether it was appropriate for Mrs P to transfer, based on that analysis. Mrs P says the 
Wealth at Work adviser made certain verbal assurances about the viability of the transfer 
and didnt at any point suggest it might not be recommended. However, the adviser says he 
didnt make any guarantees and he made Mr and Mrs P aware that Wealth at Work might 
recommend, defer or decline a transfer. 
Ive no reason to dispute what Mrs P says, but Ive given more weight to the written 
information she was provided with  which didnt make any guarantees about the transfer. I 
think Mrs P could have questioned what she was provided with if she didnt think it was in 
line with the assurances she thought shed been given verbally. 
Mrs P says that if shed been told the transfer wasnt viable at this point in the process, she 
and her husband could have found another adviser to conduct the transfer before the 
deadline on the CETV expired. But Wealth at Work simply didnt know whether the transfer 
would be suitable or not until it carried out its analysis and produced a report. Thats what 
Wealth at Work said it would do in its services and costs document and I think thats what it 
did here. It gathered information from Mrs P to better understand her situation and objectives 
and I think it noted them and took them into consideration when compiling its report and 
making its recommendation. 
I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect a professional adviser to be able to 
determine the outcome of all the relevant analysis and information gathering required to 
make a recommendation regarding an OPS transfer, in advance of completing the 
necessary work. I think Wealth at Work fully appreciated Mrs Ps two main objectives of using a tax free lump 
sum from her pension to reduce the households monthly outgoings and ensuring that her 
family received the full benefit of her pension in the event of her death. Ive seen how both 
objectives were noted in the questionnaire and suitability report Wealth at Work completed. 
But that doesnt mean that Wealth at Work had to focus solely on those objectives  its 
requirement here was to provide an independent, professional report which, when 
considered overall, recommended that Mrs P would be better served by deferring the 
decision to transfer and reducing the household outgoings in other ways. 
I know Mrs P says that her objective was an important factor in deciding whether to transfer 
and that Wealth at Work had given her no indication that it couldnt accommodate the 
objectives. But I dont think it follows that Mrs Ps view of what should have happened was 
the most suitable outcome here, so I have considered the overall suitability of what was 
recommended. 
Mrs P said her main objectives were to maximise her death benefits and make provision for 
her partner and other dependents, to give her the potential to retire early, and to give her the 
flexibility to control her own pension funds.
   
As I said previously Wealth at Work noted Mrs Ps objectives within its initial questionnaire 
and subsequent suitability report, so Im satisfied that it listened to Mrs P when she 
explained her objectives and took them into consideration when undertaking its analysis. 
And I accept that Mrs P gave valid reasons for wanting to transfer her benefits. But in the 
first comparison that was set out in the report  regarding a like for like income, Wealth at 
Work confirmed that Mrs P would need to generate an additional £151,719 after transferring 
to a personal pension to provide the same level of retirement income as her OPS which 
was around 75% of the CETV that shed been provided with. 
I think the most important factor in recommending whether a transfer was suitable would 
have been whether Mrs P was financially better off by transferring. So, as it was 
demonstrated that she wouldnt be, I think it would have been difficult to justify the transfer 
based solely on the other objectives. It was unlikely that Mrs P could have obtained this 
additional required growth and so would have remained worse off after transferring when 
comparing the income she could have derived. 
Wealth at Work did look at the other reasons for transferring. It concluded that as Mrs P 
wasnt yet age 55 then she couldnt have taken her tax free cash and so would have been 
unable to assist with the objective of using tax free cash to repay the mortgage and reduce 
outgoings. But Wealth at Work did confirm that Mrs P would have been able to provide 
greater death benefits from transferring to a personal pension. Mrs P had said that she still 
wanted to ensure her OPS benefits werent lost when she died, so if the fund available on 
her death if she transferred her OPS benefits was far greater  she thought that remained an 
important objective in her desire to transfer.
But I dont think this was a compelling enough reason on its own to lead to Wealth at Work 
using it as the basis for recommending a transfer. It had to be seen as part of the overall 
recommendation which, on balance, recommended against the transfer.
Wealth at Work also considered that there was an alternative course of action that 
Mr and Mrs P could take  which Ill return to later- that would potentially reduce their 
outgoings. As a result, Wealth at Work concluded that overall it wasnt in Mrs Ps interests to transfer her OPS benefits at that time. It did suggest that when Mrs P considered retiring it 
could reconsider its recommendation.
So looking at the reasons Wealth at Work gave for its recommendation I dont think it was 
unsuitable. I know Mrs P thinks a transfer was in her best interest based on the objectives 
shed set out, but I think Wealth at Work was entitled to reach the conclusion that it did. The 
regulators default position on OPS transfers is that advice should be not to transfer, unless 
there are compelling reasons to do so. I havent seen sufficient persuasive evidence that 
Mrs Ps objectives, important as they were to her, were compelling enough.
Mrs P also complained that Wealth at Works recommendation to take out an interest only 
mortgage to reduce the familys outgoings wasnt achievable and they couldnt find a lender 
who would provide such a loan. She says Wealth at Work ought to have ensured its 
recommendation could be met before it was set out and this was a further example of how 
Wealth at Works advice was flawed.  
Wealth at Work did make it clear that it wasnt giving mortgage advice. According to its 
keyfacts about our services and costs document it would only have done that if 
Mr and Mrs P had requested it and it would have had to provide a further appropriate terms 
of business document. So I dont think there was any doubt that it wasnt providing specific 
mortgage advice  or that it had underpinned its recommendation through research about 
whether the mortgage could be obtained and from which provider. 
 
In addition, as explained by its service offering regarding the pension transfer, the advice in 
relation to this product is: restricted advice- we only offer advice on limited types of products, 
or products from one company or a limited number of companies. So Wealth at Work wasnt 
able to provide independent mortgage advice in any case. I think it was reasonable for 
Wealth at Work to set out how its pension recommendation could be met within an overall 
framework  such as cutting monthly expenditure by remortgaging, but I dont think it gave 
any guarantees about the way in which the recommendation might be achieved.
Indeed, the email Wealth at Work sent Mr P on 5 November 2019 concluded by saying In 
the meantime, we suggest that you speak to your mortgage provider in respect of switching 
over to an interest only arrangement in order to achieve your goal of releasing more 
disposable income. Unfortunately, as we are not mortgage brokers, we are unable to 
facilitate this on your behalf.
However, whilst I dont believe Wealth at Works advice to be unsuitable, I have considered 
whether the advice would have remained the same if it had been aware that Mr and Mrs P 
would have difficulty arranging a mortgage switch or even that it might not be possible. And I 
think, based on what Ive seen, that it would have. I say that because in another email prior 
to its formal recommendation in November 2019 Wealth at Work confirmed its advice as not 
to never transfer, (the PTS) feels it is more appropriate to transfer at the point of retiring 
whether that be in 1 year or at 60 as the figures in the cash flow models seem to be ok. 
And in an email between the adviser and PTS it was generally agreed that regardless of the 
mortgage advice, the current loan was being serviced, and Mr P had historically earned 
bonuses that would have assisted in making the repayments  so it didnt think it could justify 
to the regulator a transfer based on some other capital expenditure that Mr and Mrs P 
needed to make at that time.
So I think, although it provided commentary on a possible solution to the issue of reducing 
outgoings, Wealth at Work would still have recommended against the transfer at that time, 
even if it had prior awareness of the issues obtaining a remortgage. And Ive already 
confirmed I dont think that recommendation was inappropriate. 
But even if I am wrong about Wealth at Works advice here, Mrs P still had the option of 
taking the completed PAD and asking the trustees of the OPS to transfer the benefits. 
I know there were complications with this action  which I come back to later- but ultimately 
Mrs P was able to transfer the benefits, using the original CETV, so was able to achieve her 
objective without suffering any financial loss over the transfer. 
Wealth at Works overall service
Mrs P has said that Wealth at Works service was poor, both before and after it issued a 
suitability report to her. So Ive considered what Wealth at Work said it would do against 
what it actually achieved. 
Ive already shown that the keyfacts about our services and costs document said Wealth at 
Work would produce a suitability report setting out a recommendation to either transfer or 
retain the benefits of the ceding scheme. And I think thats what Wealth at Work did. 
And the suitability report confirmed that our initial fee for analysis of a defined benefit 
transfer is a one-off payment of £1,000 plus VAT for each scheme analysed, which you have 
already paid.. So I think Wealth at Works fee was in line with what it said it would charge for 
providing a report, and as I think Wealth at Work did what it said it would do in return for the 
fee, I dont think it should have to refund it to Mrs P. 
I note Wealth at Work completed a questionnaire with Mr and Mrs P on 13 September 2019. 
And Ive seen that by 30 October 2019, although the recommendation report hadnt been 
finalised and issued, they were aware of the recommendation that was going to be put 
forward and had already signalled their intention to go ahead with the transfers elsewhere if 
necessary. So that means that Wealth at Work was able to gather any required information, 
complete its analysis and issue its report in around six weeks. 
Although Im unaware of any regulatory requirement to complete an OPS transfer within a 
certain time frame, there was a deadline from the OPS trustees of three months before the 
expiry of its CETV. In this case Wealth at Work was able to issue its report before that expiry 
date and, looking at the overall situation, I dont think its unreasonable for Wealth at Work to 
have provided the service it said it would in around six weeks.
I know Mrs P says Wealth at Works service was poor, but I simply havent seen any 
persuasive evidence to support that claim. Wealth at Works recommendation wasnt in line 
with what Mrs P expected and thought she was promised. But that doesnt mean its service 
was poor and I havent seen anything persuasive to support that claim.  
 
The additional delays caused by Wealth at Work not signing the discharge forms 
After Wealth at Work had made its recommendation Mr and Mrs P said they wanted to 
transfer regardless. They asked Wealth at Work to complete the necessary discharge forms 
and paperwork as they assumed theyd fulfilled the regulatory requirement to get advice on 
defined benefit transfers of over £30,000. 
Mrs P says Wealth at Work hadnt said that there would be any problem with it signing the 
forms in the event of her not accepting its recommendation. 
She said her and Mr P made it clear at the beginning of the process that they hadnt decided 
which pension provider to use, so Wealth at Work ought to have been aware that it might be 
required to sign the forms even if she used a different pension provider.But Wealth at Work was a restricted adviser as set out in its terms of business letter and 
therefore wasnt able to recommend a product outside its own range. 
It may have been beneficial if Wealth at Work had confirmed at that time that if Mrs P did go 
elsewhere it wouldnt be able to sign the forms  but I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
continue with the process as Mrs P was still likely to use Wealth at Work, especially if it was 
the firm which ultimately made a positive recommendation to transfer.
  
The difficulty Wealth at Work had was satisfying the regulators requirement to take 
responsibility for the due diligence of the investments to be used within the new plan with a 
different provider  and the need to provide a specific illustration instead of a generic cash 
based one which wouldnt include any of the charges or fees involved. And as a comparison 
of charges, and their inclusion within the analysis would have been an important part of 
determining whether the transfer was indeed suitable in the first place, it wouldnt have been 
possible for Wealth at Work to confirm this without having full knowledge of the new plan and 
having the necessary permissions to recommend it  which it didnt. 
Its unfortunate that this situation came to light when Mrs P still had the opportunity to 
complete a transfer, against Wealth at Works recommendation, if she could get the relevant 
PAD signed and returned to the scheme administrator. I can understand why Mrs P was 
frustrated with the further efforts she needed to make to get Wealth at Work to sign an 
alternative form  with the delay this may have caused. But as Ive already explained I think 
Wealth at Work was simply following the regulatory guidelines here to ensure its 
recommendation couldnt be seen as a positive endorsement to transfer in the event of any 
future problems.
In any case alternative certificates were completed which allowed Mrs P to complete her 
transfer, and as the scheme administrator extended the deadline on her CETV, Mrs P was 
able to transfer the same CETV as shed originally been given  which meant she hadnt 
suffered any financial loss during the process and was therefore able to meet her objectives.     
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman