DRN-4205737
The complaint
Mr G and Miss K complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly settled a claim on a 
joint liability basis, under their motor insurance policy. 
Ill refer to Miss K in my decision for ease as shes the policyholder.  
What happened
In May 2021 Miss K was involved in a collision when driving her car. She says esures agent 
told her not to worry as it wasnt her fault. She says she declined the provision of a courtesy 
car and didnt have to pay her policy excess fee. Around ten months later she was asked by 
esure if she was prepared to attend court. This was because the third party was contesting 
liability. 
Miss K says she supplied photos of the accident, and a description of how it occurred. She 
was then informed the claim would be settled on a 50/50 split liability basis. She disputed 
this over many phone calls and emails. But esure maintained its decision. Miss K says esure 
indicated it may reassess the claim if she submitted a personal injury claim. As this would 
increase the cost. 
Miss K says esure has since agreed that she wasnt at fault for the collision. But it has taken 
16 months of stress and anxiety to reach this point. She says solicitors were reluctant to start 
a personal injury claim whilst liability was in dispute. And that communication with esure has 
been difficult, including the provision of an incorrect contact number. Miss K wants 
confirmation in writing that the accident wasnt her fault. In addition, she wants compensation 
to reflect the impact esures mistake and poor claim handling has had on her. 
esure provided a final complaint response to Miss K in September 2022. It says it made the 
wrong decision when settling Miss Ks claim. It acknowledged shed spent a lot of time on 
the phone trying to resolve this matter and struggled to get through on many occasions. It 
says feedback has been provided internally in relation to this point. 
In its complaint response esure says no admissions of liability were made despite the joint 
liability settlement. This means the outcome wont impact on Miss Ks personal injury claim. 
esure says when the claim is closed it will be recorded as non-fault. This means Miss Ks 
no-claims discount will be unaffected. 
Miss K wasnt satisfied with esures response and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld her complaint. He says delays, caused by esure, impacted on the overall 
time to handle Miss Ks claim. And he says more couldve been done to ensure the correct 
liability decision. 
Our investigator says esure should pay £300 compensation in total to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Miss K. 
Miss K didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Miss Ks complaint. I wont be adding to the 
compensation award our investigator set out. Im sorry to disappoint Miss K, but I will explain 
why I think my decision is fair.  
Ive read the claim records esure provided. This includes the first contact Miss K made 
following the collision on 6 May 2021. The records say the third-party vehicle had reversed 
into her car. Damage to Miss Ks car was reported to the near side door and rear quarter, 
including trim on the wheel arch. 
I can see esure emailed Miss K on the same day she reported the claim. It advised it had 
instructed a repair garage. Also, that she would hear from the company that was to provide a 
hire car. 
On 7 May 2021 esure emailed Miss K to explain it will be contacting the third-partys insurer. 
It says the insurer has 90 days to investigate the claim. esure says it will await repair 
information from the garage. The claim costs, along with its allegations, will then be sent to 
the third-partys insurer holding it at fault. 
I can see esure contacted the third-party insurer in June 2021. It confirmed that it held it 
responsible for the accident. A note shows Mr G called esure in early September. He 
explained the circumstance of the accident. The note says Mr G confirmed they would 
attend if required. My understanding is this relates to possible court action, and his 
agreement to attend. 
Esure emailed Mr G on 6 September 2021 and asked for photos taken at the scene of the 
accident. Notes in October and November refer to the photos not having been received. Mr 
G called on 10 December asking for an update. The note says he had sent the photos twice. 
esures agent said this information hadnt been received. A link was then provided for the 
photos to be attached to. 
A record dated 18 January 2022 says the photos had been received. The note says, the 
images show us the damage to the vehicles but this isnt evidence. Around a week later Mr 
G calls esure. Its agent says that based on the evidence it thinks it would be a matter of one 
sides word against the other. Mr G disagreed given the location of the accident damage. 
esures agent says the claim will be settled on a 50/50 without prejudice basis. The note then 
refers to a discussion around Miss K making an injury claim. esures agent asks for details 
so it can see if this would influence the outcome. 
At the beginning of February 2022, the third-party insurer asked for a copy of Miss Ks 
statement and her diagram of the accident. esure contacted Miss K on 15 March to ask for 
this information. 
A record dated 11 April says, Greater duty of care lies with the reversing party. Would look 
to hold the TP fully responsible. It doesnt appear that this made a difference here. esure 
subsequently wrote to Miss K on 13 May confirming the split liability outcome. She called 
back on 23 May. She says letter was only received on 20 May and she was told to respond by 23 May. Miss K says she had sent emails without response and had no success getting in 
contact with the claim team. 
In mid-June 2022 Miss K contacted esure saying she doesnt accept the liability decision. 
The note says shed been calling for four weeks and hadnt been able to get through. A 
complaint was logged at this time. 
The next record is dated 12 September 2022. Miss K contacted esure by phone. She asked 
for an update having heard nothing since her complaint was logged. Two days later she 
called again. She says she was expecting a call from a manager. An apology was provided 
by esures agent. I can see esure called Miss K on 21 September. The call note from this 
discussion says:
there may be more to the PHs concerns in that the damage was on the side of our car so it 
would make the PHs claim more viable. esures agent agreed to review the claim file.
esures agent called Mr G on 22 September 2022. He agreed that this should have been a 
non-fault claim due to where the impact was on Miss Ks car from the third-partys car. The 
note says there was some pre-existing damage on this part of Miss Ks car, which 
complicated matters. However, there was no reason to believe that esure couldnt have won 
this case. esures agent confirmed the claim will be closed as non-fault with Miss K retaining 
her no-claims bonus. The complaint response letter that followed, says £150 compensation 
would be paid.  
Its not my role to determine who is at fault for an accident or how a claim should be settled. 
But I can consider whether esure treated Miss K fairly. We expect esure to handle all claims 
effectively and fairly. I dont think it did so in Miss Ks case. 
esure initially settled Miss Ks claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. However, in September 
2022 after the complaint was logged, it determined there was no reason that it couldnt have 
won this case in court. When the claim was first made Miss K explained how the collision 
occurred and where the damage was located. There was a delay in photos of the damage 
being provided, due to a technical issue. But I dont think esure had anything fundamentally 
new to consider when deciding the claim shouldve been closed as non-fault. 
I think esure should reasonably have always pursued a non-fault outcome for Miss K here. 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me there was a good reason for it not to do this. This 
has resulted in a protracted claim. Miss K and Mr G have clearly had to make many calls 
and send numerous emails to esure. This shouldnt have been necessary if it had handled 
their claim fairly and continued to pursue the third party as the at-fault driver. 
I think its fair that esure has now agreed the claim should be recorded as non-fault against 
Miss K. It should confirm this to her in writing if it hasnt done so already. 
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Miss K and Mr G. Its clearly been a very 
frustrating claim experience for them both. Its taken a great deal of time and effort on their 
part to reach this point. Because of this I think its reasonable that esure pays compensation 
for the distress, frustration, and inconvenience it caused. In these circumstances I think a 
total compensation payment for £300 is fair. If esure has already paid £150, its only required 
to pay the remaining £150.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited should:pay Miss K and Mr G £300 compensation (in total) for the frustration, distress, and 
inconvenience it caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman