DRN-1575669
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss M bought in 2009 in connection with a further 
advance on a mortgage she arranged in 2004. The policy provided Miss M with cover if she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Santander recommended the policy to Miss M, so 
the key question I need to consider is:
Did Santander give Miss M information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the 
insurance she was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Miss M is worse off as a 
result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive concluded Miss Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss M says she was put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that she wasnt given a proper 
choice about buying the cover. She says Santander told her she had to buy the policy to get 
the mortgage she wanted. Ive noted everything Miss M has said.
I understand Miss Ms policy was sold over the phone. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Miss M and the bank when the policy was sold, but Santander has 
provided a copy of the sales script that was used at the time. I think it's likely that the phone 
script would've been followed during the call where Miss M's policy was sold. The 
script includes wording that said:
Paymentcare is an optional insurance and is separate to your mortgage.
Following the phone interview, it seems a summary was sent to Miss M. This said:
You have made your own choice on whether to proceed. It [the Paymentcare] is an optional 
policy and is separate to any mortgage loan.
From what Ive seen, there was nothing in the phone script or subsequent documentation to 
suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Miss M has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional.
The policy cost was set out in the summary Santander sent to Miss M after the phone 
interview. So I think Miss M wouldve known how much she would be paying for the cover 
and found it acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So 
I think it unlikely Miss M would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Miss M satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. 
Miss M says she was entitled to sick pay if she couldnt work because of sickness or 
accident. But as Ive already said, I dont think Santander advised Miss M on whether to take 
the PPI. So it wouldnt have had to check whether her existing arrangements meant the 
policy was suitable for her. So Im not persuaded that Miss Ms sick pay meant the PPI policy 
was mis-sold.
Miss M wasnt affected by the policys exclusions or limitations, such as those affecting self-
employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she could have 
benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Miss M needed better information 
about the policys exclusions and limitations.
In summary, I think Miss M agreed to take out the cover, knowing she didnt have to. And 
given it provided broadly what I think she expected when she agreed to it, I dont think she 
would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if she had been 
better informed.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-sold. Which 
means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Miss M any extra interest 
she paid because of that.Santander should pay back to Miss M the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss M 8%* simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Santander UK plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman