DRN-3113765
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to refund two 
transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss A explained that someone accessed her account and made two bank transfers to 
another account without her authorisation. Miss A called Halifax after she received a text that 
shed registered for mobile banking. 
Halifax blocked the account and asked Miss A to bring her identification into a branch, which 
she did. She was told that two payments had left her account but Miss A denied it was her 
that had authorised them.
Once Halifax had looked into the transactions, they believed Miss A had authorised them 
and declined to refund her. Miss A made a complaint and Halifax re-looked into their 
investigation and didnt change their position. Miss A remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review.
Miss As complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for 
evidence. Miss A explained she hadnt known anything about the two payments or the 
person they went to. In a call to Halifax via her representative, she said that she hadnt 
received other texts sent to her phone about payees set up on her account or any calls 
about them. Miss A hadnt given her log-in details or passwords to anyone. She confirmed 
shed kept her phone with her throughout the time the disputed transactions took place, so 
couldnt understand how theyd been made. Miss A said shed spent some time in shared 
accommodation and used their facilities to access the internet. 
Halifax presented audit data about a second device that registered on Miss As mobile 
banking account. This device used Miss As registered phone number and a consistent IP 
address throughout the transactions.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
Halifax stated that security messages were sent to the new phone which confirmed the 
payments. Together with the security information needed to access Miss As account, they 
believed she was responsible for authorising the transactions. Halifax supplied statement 
information showing that there were additional funds available in the account after the two 
disputed transactions had been made.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax to hold Miss A liable for the two 
transactions and didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss A disagreed and maintained that she hadnt anything to do with the two transactions 
and asked for a further review of her complaint. Its now been passed to me for a decision.
Ive asked Miss A for further information concerning the registration of the second mobile but 
havent received any response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical information about the  
transactions. Halifax have supplied that evidence and Im satisfied it shows the disputed 
transactions were authenticated.
Consent is a formal step in the payment process and refers to the way in which Halifax and 
Miss A agreed to operate the account. For example, when using the security details to log in 
to Halifaxs mobile app, Halifax agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction 
made by the account holder or another approved user and make the payment on their 
behalf.
Because the transactions in this case have been shown to be properly authenticated and 
they used Miss As security details to log in to her account - Im satisfied that consent was 
given, and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for Halifax to hold Miss A responsible, for example if the card was 
used without her permission. 
Miss A has reported that the first she was aware of a problem was when she saw a message 
from Halifax about a new payee set up on her account. Halifax confirmed that theyd 
registered a new device prior to the new payee being set up using Miss As mobile phone 
number, which had logged in to her account using her security details. 
Halifaxs system sent a message to Miss As registered phone about the new device and the 
new payee and received confirmation which allowed the device to be set up and the 
payments to leave her account. Miss A has denied it was her who set up or sent these 
payments and believes it was someone else who was responsible. 
Ive examined the information surrounding the payments and what happened to Miss As 
online account. Halifaxs records show that two devices attempted to login to Miss As mobile 
banking app within a couple of minutes of each other. The second device was registered on 
Miss As account just prior to the disputed transactions taking place. This triggered a 
message to Miss As phone and the system records show that confirmation was received. 
Further confirmation was recorded when the new payee was set up. So, Halifax had 
registered a new device and made payments after receiving appropriate confirmation from 
Miss As mobile phone that was used to access Halifaxs mobile banking app.
In order for someone unknown to Miss A to have done that, they would have needed other 
private security information from her and access to her mobile phone without her knowledge. 
Miss A has said she was on a trip when this happened and her phone was with her. Ive 
asked Miss A about the second phone but havent received any explanation from her about 
it. So, it seems unlikely that an unknown third party could have acquired the relevant security 
information in order to access Miss As account  and used her genuine phone number to do 
it. 
Ive considered if Miss As phone number was cloned, which would likely divert Halifax 
messages to the second phone, but I dont think this is the case. Thats because the same 
phone number was still being used by Miss A when she sent those messages to the 
Financial Ombudsman. I think this was because it was Miss A who was in possession of the 
phone at the time, otherwise the messages would have been unlikely to have been received if they were sent to cloned device. The main point of cloning a phone number is to divert 
such messages  but the evidence here appears to show that it was Miss As phone that 
received them.
If her phone was cloned, I would have expected Miss A wouldnt have been able to use it at 
all, but that wasnt the case because she called Halifax from it later that evening. Halifax 
stated that the IP address was consistent with earlier undisputed use, but due to the time 
thats passed that evidence is no longer available to examine. 
I also examined the account when the two payments were made. There was a large balance 
left in the account after the two disputed transactions were made. If they were made by an 
unauthorised third party who had access to Miss As mobile banking, then they would likely 
have been aware of the remaining balance. I think its unusual that these funds were left 
untouched in the account. Ordinarily Id expect any thief who had access to someone elses 
account would try and take everything from it that they could, but that didnt happen here. It 
would have been a simple matter to send a further payment to the same account or set up a 
different payee and take the remaining funds. 
Of course, its possible that when Miss A used the shared internet facilitates at her 
accommodation, something happened to compromise the security of her phone and banking 
app, but I dont think this is the likely explanation. Thats because Miss A received the 
messages from Halifax on her phone, even though her representative denied this during a 
call to Halifax. There were two logins using different devices two minutes apart and this 
seems quite coincidental if the second device was used by an unknown third party. Also, 
Halifax received confirmation from Miss As phone after sending those messages and there 
were funds left in the account which doesnt follow the usual pattern of theft.
Whilst Im sure Miss A will disagree with me, my objective assessment based on the 
available evidence is that I think its more likely than not that Miss A was responsible for 
making the disputed transactions or allowing others to do so on her behalf. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman