DRN-1895237
The complaint
Mrs W complains that The Claims Guys Limited (TCG) are claiming a fee for a successful 
claim despite her making the claim herself.
What happened
I sent my provisional decision for this complaint on 30 April 2020. I explained I intended to 
uphold this complaint. The following is taken directly from the provisional decision:
"In March 2019, Mrs W instructed TCG to conduct a free PPI check on her behalf. This 
check would find out whether Mrs W ever had PPI. Mrs W didnt hear anything until June 
2019 when TCG sent her a letter to say it had located PPI. The letter asked Mrs W to return 
some signed forms including information about herself so that TCG could submit a claim to 
the lender. Mrs W didnt respond to this.
In August 2019, TCG submitted a claim to Mrs Ws lender on her behalf. Around a week 
after this, Mrs W submitted her own claim to her lender directly and provided the lender with 
her circumstances around the time of sale. The claim was successful and Mrs W received 
compensation.
TCG invoiced Mrs W for its fee as it had submitted a claim and it was successful. Mrs W 
complained. She didnt think it was fair as she had made a claim directly and provided her 
lender with all the information. She has explained she only wanted a free PPI check to 
determine whether she should make a claim herself and she didnt respond to TCG with 
information so felt the contract was then cancelled.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that the terms of the letter of 
authority (LOA) Mrs W signed said, after PPI was located, TCG was authorised to make a 
claim. As it had made the claim before Mrs W had initiated her own claim, and it was in line 
with the terms, she felt TCG was entitled to its fee.
Mrs W disagreed and explained that she only intended to have a free PPI check, and that 
there wasnt an option for anything else. The cancellation period was during the time that 
TCG was looking into whether she had PPI and she doesnt feel she authorised it to make a 
claim on her behalf. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What I've provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Im intending to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs W signed a LOA instructing TCG to approach her lender to 
conduct a free PPI check. And the terms in this LOA say the following:i) Free PPI Check Period
a.TCG will use reasonable endeavours to request the Company confirm whether PPI 
existed on any account(s) which You held with them, by making a DSAR.
b.If no PPI is identified, this Agreement will come to an end, but this Agreement will 
continue on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
ii) Preparing and Submitting your Claim(s)
a.Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise TCG to 
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
So, I agree that the terms say TCG had authority to submit Mrs Ws claim to the lender. But I 
dont think it was fair or reasonable for it to do so in these circumstances.
The above terms are in the small print on page two of the LOA. The only information Mrs W 
ever provided was her name and address, and that she wanted to find out if shed had PPI. 
She didnt provide any information about her circumstances which would lead to TCG being 
able to submit a successful claim.
In addition to this, TCG wrote to Mrs W asking for more information before it submitted the 
claims. The letter is sent said the following:
To submit your Complaint(s) to your Lender, we need to provide them with some specific 
details around your circumstance at the time the PPI was sold to you and what happened 
during the actual sale of your PPI
So, I think its clear at this point TCG didnt have enough information to submit a claim to Mrs 
Ws lender. The letter goes on to say, in a large red box:
IMPORTANT: We will issue an LOA and LQ for each policy we locate, therefore you may 
receive multiple forms. Please READ, COMPLETE and RETURN the forms for each policy 
located.
The way this is set out indicates to the reader that they had to complete the forms for the 
claim to continue. This is what Mrs W says she thought it meant. And she didnt return the 
forms because she says she intended to make a claim herself. I think that when she chose 
not to respond to TCG, she was intending to end the contract with it.
I understand TCG says it was authorised from the initial LOA to make a claim to Mrs Ws 
lender. But I dont think its fair that it went ahead. Mrs W was advertised a free PPI check, 
but the terms then meant if PPI was found TCG were automatically instructed to make a 
claim. And as this was in the small print, after being advertised a free PPI check, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Mrs W to think that she could make a claim herself. She thought 
she was only finding out whether she had PPI.
Its clear to me that Mrs W intended to make a claim for herself as she did so around the 
same time that TCG made the claim. And it was only when she made the claim directly that 
the lender couldve had enough information to assess her claim, as she hadnt provided any 
information to TCG about her circumstances. So, I dont believe the claim was successful 
because of TCGs work. And I dont think its reasonable in these circumstances for it to 
charge a fee. Its letters indicated she needed to respond to TCG after it has located PPI for 
her claim to continue, she didnt do this and instead made a claim herself. So, I think it would 
be reasonable for TCG to waive its fee."
Mrs W agreed with my provisional decision. TCG disagreed. It made the following points for 
me to consider:Mrs W agreed to the terms by signing the LoA and this confirmed that she had read 
the small print.
Although its useful for a complainant to complete the questionnaire, TCG can submit 
the claim without it.
TCG prepared the claim based on the information it had which were previous 
addresses. 
It sent Mrs W further correspondence to say it had submitted the claim, and she 
shouldve contacted it to cancel the contract. As she didnt do this, the fee should be 
due.
It acknowledges that Mrs W didnt provide any further information, and that she made 
this claim directly to NatWest but this shouldnt void the contract she took out. 
TCG acknowledges the letter sent in June indicated further information was required, 
but the letter of authority completed in March (for the free PPI check) gave TCG 
authority to make a claim and charge a success fee. So, it wouldnt be fair to waive 
this.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive explained in my provisional decision why I think it would be fair for TCG to waive the fee 
for Mrs Ws claim, and the points TCG has made in response dont change my mind on this. 
So I'm upholding this complaint for the same reasons mentioned in my provisional decision 
(extract above).
TCG has acknowledged that Mrs Ws LoA was for a free PPI check, but that it was the small 
print that highlighted that it would go on to make a claim. Its also acknowledged that its 
correspondence to Mrs W indicated that to make a claim, she would have to send in further 
information. So I still believe it was Mrs Ws intention to make a claim herself (which she did 
around the same time) and that by not responding to the letter requiring further information 
she thought she was ending the contract.
I do note that TCG sent further correspondence to tell Mrs W it had made a claim on her 
behalf, but Ive not seen that these were read by Mrs W  likely because she felt she had 
already terminated the contract and had made her own claim. And given the only evidence 
TCG submitted to the lender was Mrs Ws previous addresses, I dont think the claim was 
successful because of the work it did for her. So whilst I agree the terms say it can submit a 
claim after it found PPI, I dont think it would be reasonable for it to charge a fee in these 
particular circumstances.
For the reasons Ive explained here, and in my provisional decision which has been copied 
above and forms part of this decision, Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
The Claims Guys Limited should waive its success fee for this claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. The Claims Guys Limited must waive its fee for Mrs W's claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman