DRN-2726649
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Deposit Friendly Society Limited, trading as National
Friendly, sold her a level term assurance plan that she didnt have a need for.
What happened
In 1997, Miss R started a level term assurance plan for £63,000 over 20 years. The plan
provided her with life and critical illness cover. It had a monthly premium of £16.94, which
Miss R paid through a deduction in her monthly salary from her employer.
Miss R cancelled her plan in 2014.
In 2019, she complained that it had been mis-sold to her. She said that, if she had been ill
and could no longer work, then she wouldve been able to take early retirement and so didnt
need the cover provided by the plan. She asked for the premiums to be refunded to her with
interest.
National Friendly said life insurance and critical illness cover could remain valid throughout a
persons life, whether they have a mortgage or not. It didnt think it would be appropriate to
refund the premiums Miss R had paid as shed been provided with cover during the time it
was in place.
The adjudicators opinion
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. He
said that he didnt think Miss R had a need for life cover, and the policy was on a level basis
when Miss R had a repayment mortgage. He felt that the policy recommended to Miss R
hadnt been the most suitable for her so he said National Friendly should refund the 
premiums shed paid towards it and add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple.
National Friendly disagreed with some aspects of the adjudicators opinion. In summary, it
said that Miss R already had existing life cover in place, which she had been paying for ten
years. So even if Miss R didnt have a need for the policy, she had the desire for one and her
objective was evidenced on the documentation from the time. It said that the amount and
term was to tie in with her new mortgage, and it had assumed that it wasnt a condition of her
lending as it hadnt been assigned to the lender. It said it could be best practice to disregard
the employment benefits Miss R had as they werent suitable to protect her mortgage and
were unlikely to meet her objective to provide in the event of a critical illness.
National Friendly said that the critical illness cover and life cover were two separate types of
cover bundled together, and Miss R had a need for both. But it accepted that level cover
wouldnt be the most suitable for her repayment mortgage, and so Miss R had paid more for
additional cover than her needs at the time suggested. It calculated the likely cost of her
policy if it had been a decreasing term assurance and critical illness cover plan and found
that Miss R paid £2.54 each month more for the level term plan. It offered to refund this
together with interest at 8% simple a year.
Our adjudicator explained this offer to Miss R. But she felt that she didnt have a need for life
cover as she didnt have any dependents. She said the previous life cover she had was a
requirement of her lender, and it wasnt a top priority for her. She said she wouldve been
pensioned off by her employer if she had become too ill to work.
National Friendly responded to say that it believed the information recorded at the time of the
advice indicated that her priorities would have changed when she confirmed that life cover
wasnt a requirement of her mortgage, but not that she had no need for the life cover. It said
that her awareness that the life cover may be unsuitable seems inconsistent with the fact
that she continued with her policy for nearly 18 years. It said that the fact find indicated that
Miss Rs pension income wouldnt have been sufficient to meet her expenditure. It said the
fact find demonstrated that Miss R had a need for cover in the event of ill health preventing
her from being able to work.
However, National Friendly said it would be prepared to offer Miss R a refund of the life
cover element of her premium with interest, as a gesture of goodwill. It said this represented
25% of her premium.
The adjudicator explained this offer to Miss R but she asked for her complaint to be
reviewed. She said that she thinks she should not have been sold any insurance as she did
not need it.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. In summary, I reached a 
different conclusion to the adjudicator in that I thought National Friendlys offer to refund the 
life cover element of her premium was fair. 
I considered everything that Miss R told us about her circumstances at the time she
started this policy, alongside the information recorded on the fact find. And at that time, 
Miss R was single with no dependants. Her existing mortgage was covered by a protection 
plan with another provider. She had already applied for a new mortgage through a broker 
and met with the adviser to discuss her priorities which were to cover the new mortgage in 
the event of death, disability or serious illness.
Miss Rs existing protection plan didnt provide enough cover for the amount of the new 
mortgage and would end before it. So the adviser recommended a protection plan to match
the new mortgage. The plan provided Miss R with level term assurance and critical illness
cover. The monthly premiums of £16.94 were paid by a deduction from Miss Rs salary from
her employer.
I said that Miss Rs circumstances at the time could suggest that she may not have had a 
need for the life cover included in her plan. I said I could appreciate her point that she had 
no-one who was financially reliant upon her should she have passed away while her 
mortgage was still outstanding. She did have an existing life cover plan at the time, however 
she told us that this was because it was a requirement of her previous lender.
I said it wasnt clear whether her new lender also required suitable life cover as a condition 
of her mortgage borrowing. The fact find indicated that she wasnt sure of this at the time. 
However, National Friendly told us that her plan wasnt assigned to the lender.
But the critical illness cover would have provided a lump sum benefit that Miss R could have
used to repay her mortgage commitment should she have been diagnosed with a specified
critical illness. I said I appreciated what Miss R said about the benefits that she received 
through her employment. But, should she have changed her job, then she may not have received the same level of benefits. I said I wouldnt necessarily say that this meant she 
didnt have a need for the critical illness cover, particularly when it was recorded as being 
one of her priorities on the fact find. The documentation suggested that she was looking for 
advice on her protection requirements at a time when she was taking on a larger mortgage 
commitment.
National Friendly told us that critical illness cover could only have been taken with a level 
term assurance policy at that time, rather than as a standalone policy. And this type of level 
term policy wasnt the most appropriate to protect Miss Rs repayment mortgage, as the 
capital that she owed would gradually go down over the term it was in place.
National Friendly acknowledged this, initially offering to compare the costs of the level
term policy with a decreasing term one. But it had later offered to refund all of the portion of
the premiums that was for the cost of the level term assurance. It said this life cover 
represented 25% of her premium - £4.23 a month. And I thought that this offer represented a 
fair way to settle Miss Rs complaint because her circumstances suggested that the critical 
illness cover was a reasonable recommendation that met her needs and priorities at the time 
of the advice. So I said I didnt think that National Friendly should be required to refund the 
entire premium Miss R paid.
The responses
Miss R responded to say that she had been required by her first lender to have life cover but 
not by her second lender. She didnt want to pay for cover she didnt need but her desire 
was to have peace of mind that she would be able to pay her mortgage if she fell ill. She had 
approached the adviser because she trusted they would give her good advice and have her 
best interests at heart. 
She said that she had paid the policy premiums without querying it as she hadnt realised 
that she could have been pensioned off by her work if she had become ill. She said she 
wouldnt have left this job as it was secure. She said she only now understands how the 
policy was proportioned and feels that her complaint is being given less focus as National 
Friendly had agreed to refund a portion of the premium. She feels the policy shouldnt have 
been sold to her as she didnt want the life cover and didnt need critical illness cover 
because of the benefits provided by her employer. 
National Friendly responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Miss Rs strength of feeling about not believing that she had a need for any 
of the cover provided by this particular plan because of the level of benefits she would 
receive from her employer in the event she was unwell and unable to work. 
But, having reviewed all the information provided, my findings remain that I consider that her 
circumstances from the time of the advice suggest that the critical illness cover was a 
reasonable recommendation that matched what she was looking for from that advice. Shes 
explained that she wanted the peace of mind that her mortgage could be repaid if she fell ill, 
and I think this element of the plan was suitable for that need. 
Although I do understand that she feels she would have had some level of protection from 
her employee benefits, and didnt intend on leaving her job, I dont think this would mean that she didnt have a need for this part of the cover, when it couldnt be certain that this would 
meet her objective of being able to repay her mortgage commitment. 
Im sorry that Miss R feels that her initial complaint has been given less focus because of the 
offer National Friendly has made. I would like to reassure her that this isnt the case. Ive 
reached my decision based upon my consideration of her overall circumstances, and in 
doing so have concluded that these suggest that the critical illness cover was a reasonable 
recommendation that met her needs and priorities at the time of the advice.
Its because of this that my findings remain as I set out in my provisional decision, in that I 
think National Friendlys offer to refund the portion of her premiums that were for the life 
cover element represents a fair way to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I require National Deposit Friendly Society Limited, trading as National 
Friendly, to refund the portion of Miss Rs premium that was for the cost of her level term 
assurance cover, as it has already offered to do.
It should refund this portion of each premium Miss R paid until she cancelled her policy in
2014 and add 8% simple interest per year to each premium portion from the date it was paid
to the date of settlement.
If National Friendly considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give Miss R
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman