DRN-2842303
The complaint
Ms D says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loansathome (LAH) lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says she was in financial difficulty when LAH approved the lending. And she couldnt afford 
to repay the loans. She thinks LAH shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
She also says that she had personal problems, and she was acting under duress, when she 
took the loans out. She says that LAH knew about these but lent anyway. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected loans LAH provided to Ms D between February 
and December 2018. Some of the information I have received about the lending can be 
found in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 07/02/2018 £300 24 23/05/2018
2 02/05/2018 £200 33 19/09/2018
3 23/05/2018 £625 45 19/12/2018
4 05/09/2018 £250 45 written off
5 19/09/2018 £400 45 written off
6 14/11/2018 £225 45 written off
7 12/12/2018 £1,360 45 written off
8 19/12/2018 £600 45 written off
I understand that Ms D was unable to fully repay loans 4 to 8. But LAH has written off the 
outstanding loan amounts and now will not pursue her for the amounts still she would 
ordinarily still be due to repay. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that LAH had made 
proportionate checks for loans 1 to 4 and so it wasnt acting wrongly when it approved these 
loans. She thought it couldve done more before approving loan 5 but she hadnt seen 
enough to enable her to say that Ms D wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay this 
loan. She thought the lending pattern itself was harmful by loan 6 and so she thought LAH 
shouldnt have approved any loans from this point on. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint about what LAH may have known about her 
personal situation. She didnt think LAH was aware of this. 
LAH had already offered to pay compensation in respect of loans 7 and 8 before the 
complaint was brought here. And it agreed with what our adjudicator said about loan 6. It 
noted that as Ms D hadnt repaid the capital on these loans and so no refund was due. But it 
would adjust Ms Ds credit file in the way the adjudicator recommended. 
Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She said that:
loans 2, 3, 4 and 5 also shouldnt have been given as she couldnt have afforded the 
repayments, she says making the repayments left her with no money and
her personal situation impacted on her ability to repay the loans and she may have 
taken them to benefit her partner rather than herself. LAH knew she was acting under 
duress in this way.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ds complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 6 to 8. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And for the avoidance of doubt I agree that LAH shouldnt have approved this lending and for the same reasons as the 
adjudicator said. So, I wont comment further on these loans. Ive put the agreed 
compensation in my putting things right section below. 
For the first five loans Ms D needed to make weekly repayments. The payments were £20 
for loan 1, they fell to £10 for loan two, and they were £25, £10 and £16 respectively for 
loans 3, 4 and 5. 
Ive seen a record of the information Ms D provided when she completed her loan 
applications. Ms D said she had a weekly income of around £190 for loan one rising, fairly 
evenly, to £610 for loan 5. LAHs records shows this was confirmed at the time of sale. And 
her weekly outgoings were recorded as being £116 for loan 1 rising to £169 for loan 5. The 
credit reference agency information LAH obtained supports this information in the main. It 
did show Ms D had some other home credit at times, but this didnt affect the affordability 
assessments. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely LAH was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms D mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Ms D circumstances further. Ms D did have some repayment problems at times 
but these didnt become significant until later on in the lending. So, I think it was reasonable 
for LAH to rely on the information it obtained, in the main.
As our adjudicator said it may have been that, before approving loan 5, LAH shouldve made 
better checks. Ms D has supplied her bank statements. Ive looked at these to see what LAH 
mightve seen if it had done this. But these dont show any further material information than 
what LAH obtained when it approved the loans. So, the bank statements havent altered my 
consideration of Ms Ds circumstances. 
Ms D has said that she was in a very difficult situation personally. And a large part of her 
complaint is that LAH was aware of this, at least in part, and should not have lent to her. 
Having read in total what Ms D has said about this I dont dispute things must have been, 
and maybe still are, very difficult for her. She has my sympathy about this, and I hope things 
have improved for her. 
But in order to uphold her complaint on this basis I must be satisfied that LAH was aware of 
her circumstances and that it should have acted differently. LAH has contacted both its 
agent and the area manager involved. Both said they werent aware of Ms Ds problems. 
I know Ms D disagrees strongly with this, and Im not disputing what she says about her 
circumstances. But given that both parties to the complaint version of events differ in this 
way I cant say, with any degree of certainty, that LAH knew about these issues or shouldve 
acted differently because of them. So, I cant uphold Ms Ds complaint on this basis. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments LAH did for loans 1 to 5 were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve these loans was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Ms Ds complaint about them. 
Ive put the agreed compensation calculation below. But, as LAH has previously said, given 
that Ms D has not yet repaid the capital for these loans, and it will not request that Ms D 
does this, then its unlikely to result in any money being paid to Ms D. It will adjust her credit 
file in respect of these loans. 
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Ms D loans 6 to 8.If LAH has sold the outstanding debts LAH should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy the debts back then LAH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms D towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms D having made 
overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms D. D. LAH shouldnt pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal LAH has already written-off.
E) LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file in relation to 
loans 6 to 8. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax LAH has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ds complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman