DRN-3456790
The complaint
Mrs W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) sent a letter about her 
policy to the incorrect address and that this has had a significant impact on her.
What happened
Mrs W holds two HomeCare policies with British Gas for two separate properties. One 
covers the property she lives in and the other covers a property she rents out.
In November 2020, following a claim, British Gas sent an invoice for work carried out to the 
wrong address. The invoice was sent to Mrs Ws tenants address, and Mrs Ws home 
address was clearly printed on the letter. Prior to this, Mrs W says her tenant did not have 
her home address.
Mrs W says this data breach caused her anxiety because her home address is protected 
due to personal circumstances. She also says her tenant now comes to her home address 
making various requests.
Mrs W has also said that British Gas failed to respond to her complaint initially and it has 
taken her additional time and effort to try to sort things out.
In response to the complaint, British Gas acknowledged its error and apologised for it. It also 
said it cant explain how the letter was sent to the incorrect address  and it can only confirm 
that the address was changed on its system. It told Mrs W that to put things right for her, the 
address had been changed back and the data protection breach had been logged. It also 
offered Mrs W £30 for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs W didnt accept British Gass offer. She said the situation had caused symptoms of 
PTSD due to repeated unwanted visits to her property by her tenant, and she was now 
nervous in her own home. She wanted British Gas to investigate what had happened and 
fairly compensate her for the distress it had caused. So she referred her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues and thought British Gas hadnt done enough to put 
things right for Mrs W. The investigator said British Gass actions had caused Mrs W 
considerable distress and worry  and recommended that it pay Mrs W a total of £500 
compensation in recognition of the impact of its error.
Neither Mrs W nor British Gas agreed with our investigators recommendations. Mrs W said, 
among other things, that the actions of British Gas had caused her such mental distress that 
shed been off work sick for several months. British Gas maintained its position that it had 
done enough to put things right for Mrs W. Because neither party agreed with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator, the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. And so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that British Gas made a mistake by sending Mrs Ws invoice to her tenants 
address. And I accept, based on Mrs Ws detailed testimony, that her tenant now has her 
home address, which he didnt have before the error. I also find Mrs Ws testimony that her 
home address is protected due to sensitive and distressing personal circumstances shes 
told us and British Gas about, both plausible and persuasive.
British Gas has said that Mrs Ws home address is publicly available on the internet. So 
although it accepts its error, it doesnt accept that individuals couldnt have found out about 
Mrs Ws home address in another way. But Ive looked into this and also spoken to Mrs W 
about it. Having done so, Im persuaded that Mrs Ws tenant couldnt have easily found her 
home address online and that the impact of British Gass error was significant.
I say this because although Mrs Ws home address is available online, Mrs W tells us the 
name her tenants know her by is different to the name on the website British Gas refers to. 
Mrs W has provided further evidence to demonstrate this, namely her tenancy agreement, 
on which she uses a different surname to the surname on the public website. So Im satisfied 
her tenants would not have been able to find out her home address by searching for her 
online, as they do not know her as Mrs W. Mrs W has also provided evidence which shows 
the name she uses on her social media accounts. And that name is also different to the 
name on the website British Gas refers to. So if her tenant or any other individual was to look 
her up online, they might find her social media accounts, but not her home address.
British Gas says tenants can ask for a landlords address and a landlord is legally obliged to 
provide it, but the evidence British Gas has sent us shows that the landlord can disclose 
their home address, an office address or the address of another property they occupy. The 
contact information on the tenancy agreement for service of legal notices is Mrs Ws email 
address, not a postal address. And Im also aware that landlords often provide a letting 
agents address as an address for service of legal notices. So, all in all, I consider it likely 
that Mrs Ws tenant found out where she lived and was able to repeatedly visit her home 
address as a direct result of the data breach.
Ive considered the impact of this on Mrs W, and Ive asked Mrs W for further details about 
what has happened since British Gas sent the invoice to the wrong address. Shes told me, 
as she told British Gas when she made the complaint, that her tenant now comes to her 
house and makes requests. She says this includes asking for money and for food, as the 
tenant is vulnerable and a widowed father to three children, having recently lost his wife. 
Mrs W says she has tried numerous times to discourage him from visiting her address, but 
due to his vulnerable situation he has persisted. She has therefore felt she had no choice but 
to help him at times  such as by taking him to food banks so that he can feed his children.
Ive thought about whether it would be reasonably foreseeable that a tenant would 
repeatedly visit a landlords home address once they become aware of it. And in doing so, I 
note that its commonplace for landlords not to give their home addresses to tenants, often 
using the address of a letting agent if one needs to be provided for legal reasons, as Ive 
already mentioned. For that reason Im satisfied that there is an element of foreseeability in a 
tenant behaving in such a way if aware of a landlords home address, and a tenant making 
demands of or harassing a landlord does not seem too remote a possibility.
So Im persuaded that British Gass error in sending the invoice to the incorrect address and 
making Mrs Ws tenant aware of her address for the first time, has had a significant impact on Mrs W, at a time when she is already vulnerable and experiencing considerable distress 
due to other personal circumstances shes told us and British Gas about. 
And considering how British Gas handled her complaint, I think it couldve provided better 
service by fully addressing what had happened much earlier than it did. So all things 
considered, Im persuaded that British Gass error has caused significant distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs W and Im satisfied that the level of compensation recommended by 
our investigator is therefore fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs W, British Gas Insurance Limited must pay an additional £470 
compensation to Mrs W, bringing the total amount of compensation in this case to £500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman