DRN-1212470
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about a payment from their account not being made and their 
card being blocked.  
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms of Mr and Mrs Gs account say Co-op will make a payment from their 
account unless it suspects fraudulent or criminal activity. In this case a payment to 
another of their credit card accounts wasnt made because Co-ops fraud systems 
determined it might be fraudulent. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Gs frustration at whats happened and any resulting delay 
that occurred in their ability to make payments. But its important that businesses like 
Co-op have processes and procedures in place to try to identify fraud and 
transactions that arent genuine. Its in the nature of processes like these that 
genuine customers, like Mr and Mrs G, may be inconvenienced by them for a short 
time, but thats not to say that Co-op shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt 
have followed them as it did here.
Its unfortunate that the branch manager suggested a letter of explanation would be 
provided by Co-op and I note Mr and Mrs G are not satisfied with the letter they have 
received in this complaint. But as these security processes are confidential to Co-op 
and commercially sensitive, I dont think its acted inappropriately by declining to 
provide further explanation of how they work and why this particular transaction was 
declined. And I dont think I can reasonably ask Co-op to provide any further 
information or explanation to them as theyd like. 
Mr and Mrs G would like an assurance that this will not happen again and suggest 
Co-ops processes should be improved. But I dont think its appropriate for Co-op to 
discuss any changes it might make to its security processes or to guarantee it will not 
decline a transaction in the future. We also arent a regulator and cant require a 
business to change its practices and procedures. General issues about how the 
banking industry works are a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Overall I dont think Co-op has acted wrongly or unreasonably in declining the 
transaction and blocking Mr and Mrs Gs card in line with its security processes. So, 
although I recognise their strength of feeling, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably 
require Co-op to do anything more or differently, including providing further 
explanation, changing its processes or guaranteeing it will not do something similar in 
the future, as theyd like.
 For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman