DRN-2554016
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society has allowed a third party/parties access to 
her and her late husbands accounts which had led to a loss of over £10,000. 
What happened
Mrs M reports that in September 2012 she invested £10,000 into premium bonds. But after 
looking into why there had been no prizes between 2014 and 2018, she was told these had 
been held in her late husbands name and had been cashed in, in July 2014. Mrs M says this 
is false as her husband had never held premium bonds. 
On 16 July 2014, Mrs M received £10,500 into her account from her husband. She 
subsequently sent a cheque for £10,000 for more premium bonds later that month; money 
she says came from her savings. However, she says this shouldnt have been allowed as 
she already had the maximum holding of £40,000. Yet the bonds were allocated to her. At 
the same time she says the bonds from September 2012 disappeared. 
Mrs M believes that Nationwide has allowed someone to access her and her husbands 
accounts to make it look as though prizes from the 2012 bond holding and its ultimate 
£10,000 encashment in July 2014, were paid to her husband and then subsequently paid to 
her account, when they werent. She also says the £10,000 she transferred from her savings 
account in 2014 to pay for the bonds, has been covered up in her accounts. 
In support of her view, Mrs M has argued:
Cheques paid into her account, supposedly from her husband, are forgeries. She 
says this because the post code on the cheques  SN2 1TS  isnt a valid post code 
for Nationwide and it should be SN3 1TS. In support of this, she has provided a copy 
of the next cheque in sequence which contains the correct post code. She has also 
argued that other parts of the cheques were wrong, including but not limited to 
vertical lines being in the wrong place and dots missing.
Her husbands signature on the cheques and the premium bond application has been 
forged. And the warrant for £10,000 when the bonds were encashed is a crude copy 
of what warrants look like. She says she used money from her savings account to 
apply for further bonds in July 2014, but this has been covered up (as per the next 
point).  
The pattern of supposed payments into and out of her accounts didnt follow the 
usual pattern when buying premium bonds. And entries into and out of her loyalty 
saver account have been fabricated to cover up the missing £10,000 and £750 in 
prizes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M feels very strongly that something has gone wrong with her and her 
husbands accounts both with Nationwide and the premium bond holding she has.
 
Mrs M has alleged that Nationwide has allowed someone to access both her and her 
husbands accounts which has resulted in her suffering a financial loss of over £10,000. This 
is a very serious allegation and Im not persuaded the arguments made and evidence she is 
relying on support her position.
 
the cheques are forgeries
Mrs M has alleged three cheques have been forged from Mr Ms account to appear as 
credits into her own account; these total £11,000. She has said the post code of SN2 1TS is 
a residential post code that doesnt belong to Nationwide.
 
Nationwide doesnt have cheque book information dating back further than 2014. But it has 
provided a possible explanation that the cheques are from different cheque books, although 
it cant be definitive about that. 
I have considered Mrs Ms point about the post code carefully. I do accept it is for a 
residential area. However, I have conducted my own research online for PO Box 8888 
(Nationwides PO Box) and post code SN2 1TS and Im satisfied that entries exist from 
organisations using this address to send payments to a Nationwide account. So whilst I 
accept that later cheques had a different post code, Im satisfied this was a legitimate post 
code address for Nationwide. 
Mrs M has referred to the vertical spacing on the cheques as well as missing wording and 
dots. But I dont find this persuasive evidence the cheques were forgeries. Im mindful that I 
am looking at copies, likely copies of copies, of cheques and so not all features are visible as 
some of those will have been lost through the copying process. 
Finally, Mrs M has said Mr Ms signature has been forged. However, Mr M has previously 
signed one of our complaint forms for a complaint he and Mrs M brought about the premium 
bonds. Im satisfied the signatures are similar such that I find it likely the cheques were 
signed by Mr M. Indeed, had these not been signed by Mr M at the time, Im surprised he 
didnt raise concerns about the entries on his statements much sooner given the amounts 
involved. 
Overall, I am satisfied the cheques were most likely genuine and the amounts they 
represented were paid to Mrs Ms account.
 
the entries on Mrs Ms account
I accept that Mrs M may have a usual way of transferring money between accounts, 
particularly when she receives prizes or wants to buy more premium bonds. But that some 
transactions were done differently isnt persuasive evidence of fraud, it is only evidence that 
transactions were carried out differently. 
Mrs M has said there is an entry out of her loyalty account for £15,000 and a later entry into 
the same account of £21,049.49, which have been fabricated to cover up the missing 
£10,000 and prizes. But I dont find this persuasive; the entries correlate with other entries 
into and out of Mrs Ms ISA, so the money has simply been moved from one account to 
another. Its not clear why a fraudster would move money from one account to another, to cover up a lesser transaction. And as a matter of common sense, if a fraudster somehow 
had access to Mrs Ms accounts (and her husbands) as she suggests, I question why they 
would cover up money rather than steal the available balances, which were far greater. 
These dont strike me as the actions of a fraudster.
Overall, Im not persuaded the evidence Ive seen leads me to conclude the entries on Mrs 
Ms accounts have been fabricated or that a transfer of £10,000 from her savings, which she 
says she later used to buy bonds in July 2014, has been covered up. 
the premium bonds
It isnt open to me to make any findings about the ownership of the premium bonds in 
question  that matter has already been excluded by this office.
 
I have found above that the evidence provided doesnt support Mrs Ms allegation that 
someone has accessed her and her late husbands accounts.  I therefore find the funds Mrs 
M used to buy premiums bonds in July 2014, derived from Mr Ms premium bond 
encashment from a few days earlier, rather than Mrs Ms savings. 
Overall
I have carefully considered everything said and provided. If, as Mrs M alleges, access has 
been erroneously granted to her and her late husbands accounts which has resulted in her 
losing over £10,000, then this would have needed to be perpetrated over at least a two-year 
period. It would also need to involve the staff of more than one organisation. The more 
people, time and accounts involved, the more chance there is of getting caught; these arent 
the types of risks fraudsters take. In my experience, if a fraudster is trying to access money 
in an account, as much money will be taken over the shortest period of time.  Here, Mrs M 
alleges someone has covered up a missing funds of around £10-11,000. But she had far 
higher amounts in her accounts (and indeed in premium bonds). 
I think the most likely explanation for what happened, is that Mr Ms cheques were genuine, 
and Mrs M used those funds to purchase more premium bonds in July 2014. It follows that I 
dont find evidence of a cover up of missing funds and so I make no award against 
Nationwide. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman