DRN-4243334
The complaint
Miss M complains that Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly gave her a running 
account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2005, Miss M applied for a catalogue shopping account through Next. The account 
started in June 2005, but our investigation can only start from April 2007 due to the 
regulations. We have information from August 2009, Ive listed the important credit limit 
changes below:
First available balance Aug 2009 £1,509
1st increase Jan 2010 £1,616
2nd increase Apr 2011 £2,200
3rd increase Sep 2012 £1,332
4th increase Apr 2013 £3,600
Decrease May 2013 £3,000
5th increase Dec 2013 £3,600
6th increase Feb 2014 £5,000
Decrease Jan 2017 £3,600
7th increase Sep 2017 £3,750
Last increase Aug 2021 £5,000
In 2022, Miss M complained to Next initially that they were wrong to reduce her credit 
without giving her sufficient explanation in 2022. The complaint has become about the 
unaffordable nature of all the lending decisions on this account.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. Next didnt agree. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 28 June 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the investigators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Ms Ds complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ms complaint is that Next were wrong to reduce her credit without giving her 
sufficient explanation in 2022 and that they shouldnt have given her credit as it was 
unaffordable to her. 
In the additional terms and conditions section of Miss Ms credit agreement, it says,
3. We can suspend, restrict or terminate your right to draw credit at any time for any 
objectively justified reason. This includes where there is an indication that the account 
payments may become unaffordable, such as where you have paid only the minimum 
monthly payment on several consecutive occasions.
Next suggested Miss Ms credit score changed adversely at the time and they took action 
to reduce the credit limit at that time. And that was explained to Miss M when she called 
them. So, Next were not operating incorrectly when taking steps to reduce or suspend 
credit to Miss M. And an explanation was provided albeit that Next has offered to pay Miss 
M some money for not having dealt with her complaint better. That seems a fair outcome 
for that part of the complaint.
Miss M also thinks that Next shouldnt have given her credit as it was unaffordable to her. 
Prior to providing credit to Miss M, Next says it carried out a credit check. It said the 
results of this satisfied it that Miss M could afford the credit limits it offered and that the 
credit limit was reviewed as they took new information each month. And they had Miss Ms 
record of managing her account to consider in setting the credit limit. 
Next havent been able to provide more than a high-level summary of the results of that 
check to us, so I cant know exactly what they saw when they made their lending 
decisions. So, its possible that Next failed to make adequate checks before providing 
Miss M with credit. But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to think better 
enquiries would have caused Next to think the credit limits they provided were 
unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Miss M has not been 
able to provide bank statements from the whole time in question. And I have not had sight 
of any credit information from the times. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any 
credit Miss M may have had or how Miss M was managing any existing credit she had at 
the time the lending decisions were made. 
I have seen some bank statements from 2017. These have been helpful and I note that 
they show that the amount of outgoings equated largely to the incoming funds and that 
the funds into the account were not just Miss Ms income. Whilst the account was run 
largely with a modest negative balance, there were times when it was in credit and the 
amount of the negative balance doesnt seem to have been such as to have made the 
lending automatically unreasonable. 
And Miss Ms account in 2017 with Next was well managed with no missed or late 
payments and payments that were above the minimum payment required. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Next to think that any of the credit they 
provided Miss M was unreasonable. 
I know that Miss M will be disappointed with my decision and I was sorry to read about 
the difficulties of her personal situation. But I want Miss M to know that I considered all 
the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence 
to uphold this complaint or ask Next to make an award greater than the one they have 
already made.I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 12 July 2023. Next responded acknowledging receipt of my 
provisional decision. They said they have nothing further to add. Miss M has not 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, has not provided any further submission or 
asked for an extension to provide one. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to 
have made further submissions had they wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Miss Ms complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman