DRN-1442566
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1998. Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy 
of the application form and note there was a separate section for PPI. This section 
presented Mr B with an option to take PPI and it appears he chose to take PPI by 
ticking the relevant box. 
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about his existing 
repayment provisions at the time of the sale. But these points dont change my decision. The 
PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay and for a longer period of time. It 
would also have paid out in addition to Mr Bs redundancy pay if he lost his job.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman