DRN-2897958
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under their home insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mrs G as the complainant for ease of reading.
What happened
Mrs G found a leak in her bathroom in November 2020 and contacted RSA to make a claim. 
RSA arranged for a contractor to visit, to locate the leak and start the process to make the 
repairs.
A leak was found beneath the bath. This was isolated and a company was appointed to dry 
out the property, prior to the repair works commencing. An adjustor was also appointed to 
scope the required works and cost. Estimates for repair works obtained by Mrs G were 
higher than the adjustors estimates. This resulted in RSAs contractors being appointed to 
manage and carry out all work. 
It then transpired that an error had been made. The adjustors estimates were lower than 
they should have been. Mrs G says this shouldnt have happened and influenced her 
decision to appoint the work to RSAs contractors. However, work continued with RSAs 
contractors and a preliminary date was set in early January 2021 for the repairs to begin.  
A certificate was required from the drying company, before the contractor would start the 
repair work. Unfortunately, the certificate highlighted a potential problem with the propertys 
external render involving cracking. This meant the contractor was not prepared to carry out 
work because of the risk of moisture in the property impacting on its repairs.  
Mrs G explains that a temporary shower pod, was installed while her home was drying out. 
She says this leaked, and was positioned blocking the circuit breakers, creating an 
electrocution hazard. 
Mrs G says hotel facilities were made available for some of the period after the shower pod 
was removed. However, she also had to use a relatives washing facilities, which involved 
traveling some distance by car.   
One of our investigators reviewed the case but didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. She said the 
settlement offered by RSA, which included compensation of £500 for the poor experience, 
was fair. 
Mrs G asked for an ombudsman to review. She wants the policy excess for £350 returned 
and an increased compensation payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. My reasons for this are broadly the same as 
our investigator, and I will explain why.
I can understand Mrs Gs frustration. The leak, and the resulting drying and repair work has 
been very disruptive for both her and her husband. I acknowledge this must have been 
distressing and has taken some time to put right. 
Repairs
The initial claim was made in November 2020. A drying company was instructed to dry out 
the property. Whilst this was ongoing RSAs contractor identified the work required to restore 
the bathroom and other damage caused by the leak. 
Restoration works were not due to begin until early January 2021. When the drying company 
completed its work and produced a handover certificate, it included the following statement:
NOTE: There are several cracks on the external render which may be allowing damp into 
the internal bathroom wall, the Policy Holder has been made aware this needs addressing. 
Where the internal cement render has been removed from the bathroom walls during strip 
out, we would recommend this is replaced. The bathroom floor had 3 layers of tiles and will 
require levelling off before reinstating the floor. 
RSAs contractor then said it could not carry out the work, due to the risk of damp impacting 
on its repairs. In an email it said, You will see from their report that they have highlighted the 
issue with the external render, which they confirmed may be allowing damp into the internal 
bathroom wall.  Any works carried out to, not only the kitchen, but to the bathroom also will 
fail if the wall continues to draw moisture from the external wall.
The email continued, If we were to agree to undertake these works, we would be deemed to 
be negligent, as we are aware that any works carried out will fail until such time as the 
external render has been repaired.   
The contractor said it did not want to take this decision, However, as a business, we cannot 
allow ourselves to be forced into carrying out works and providing Guarantees, which we 
know will be defective and not fit for purpose because there is an inherent issue at the 
property.  
Reading through the notes provided, Mrs G asked for a cash settlement at this point. I note 
she contacted a tradesman to inspect and report on the render at her home. An email was 
sent from the tradesman. In short, this said it was unlikely that the external render was 
causing any problems.  
By this time my understanding is the cash settlement had been requested and processed. 
However, Mrs G did highlight her tradesmans email to RSA and made clear this should be 
considered as part of a complaint. 
In making my decision I have been guided by the expert opinion provided by the 
tradespeople involved. Clearly a difference of professional opinion exists between the drying 
companys report and that of the tradesman Mrs G approached. It is understandable that 
RSAs contractor did not want to risk defective work, because of the possibility of damp in 
the property. As it would be responsible for putting right any problems.
I have not seen evidence that the contractor tried to avoid carrying out the work for other reasons, as suggested by Mrs G in her complaint. RSAs contractor relied on the information 
contained in the handover certificate. I dont dispute the differing views of the tradespeople 
involved here. However, it is clear why the decision was made not to carry out the work, 
given the risk of damp that had been identified. 
I do not consider it unreasonable for the contractor to rely on the drying companys report. 
Therefore, I dont think RSA acted unfairly in relation to this point.     
An initial mistake was made by RSAs agent, in not including all aspects of the damage in 
the cost estimate. Mrs G says this resulted in RSAs contractors being appointed in the first 
place. I understand the point being made. Particularly, as the work was ultimately refused 
because of the damp issue. But I do not think it is fair to link these two points. 
An initial mistake was made, which was subsequently rectified. I appreciate it may have 
delayed matters to arrange an alternative contractor at this point. But the decision was made 
to continue using RSAs contractor. What subsequently happened with respect to the render 
issue could not have reasonably been anticipated.
Shower pod   
A temporary shower pod was provided to Mrs G, to enable washing facilities to be available. 
Unfortunately, this was not fitted correctly, and a leak occurred. The pod was situated in front 
of where the electrical circuit breakers were housed. This prevented access, meaning the 
electricity supply could not be turned off when the leak was noticed.
Mrs G was understandably concerned by the risk this posed. She asked for the pod to be 
removed. Alternatives were then found for washing purposes including the use of a local 
hotel. Mrs G says when this option was no longer available, she made arrangements to use 
a relatives flat. Albeit this involved driving some distance each day.  
A degree of hassle and inconvenience has to be expected in situations such as this. 
However, the leaking shower pod added to this and created additional distress. I can 
understand Mrs Gs concerns as to the risk this posed, particularly as the circuit breakers 
couldnt be accessed. However, we cant award compensation for what might have 
happened in terms of electrocution, only the detriment actually suffered.
The cash settlement RSA provided, included a payment for £4,880.27 for the reinstatement 
costs. It also paid £1,001.81 for the cost of driving to use a relatives washing facilities, £310 
towards the electricity cost of the drying equipment, and a compensation payment for £500. 
Mrs G asks for return of the £350 excess payment, as well as additional compensation. As 
set out above, Mrs G and her husband had a poor experience. RSAs agents made errors 
that made a stressful situation worse. It is reasonable that compensation be provided to 
acknowledge the inconvenience, distress and the additional costs that occurred. 
However, I am satisfied that the payments RSA has already made, were fair in 
acknowledging this. The terms of the policy determine how much and when an excess 
payment is required. I am satisfied that RSA acted fairly in maintaining this payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman