DRN-3190670
The complaint
 Miss W complains that CARMONEY LIMITED misled her about the finance arrangements to
purchase a car.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have previously issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that I broadly agreed with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the
following reasons:
I noted Miss W agreed to buy a car at a price of £23,380 which was funded by a deposit of 
£4,000 and the balance by a conditional loan of £19,380 repayable with 60 monthly 
payments of £323. CARMONEY acted as broker and arranged the loan with a company I will 
call L. I noted it said the dealer was also a broker in this deal and it was a secondary broker.
Miss W said she was given to understand that the loan was interest free. However, she only
paid the dealer £15,039.69. In turn it has explained that 0% finance normally carries a 
subsidy for the broker/introducer in place of the commission that would normally be earned 
for introducing a customer.
It added that the dealer was aware of the subsidy and it would account for the subsidy,
presumably by charging the customer. The end result is that the dealer was left out of packet
and has been seeking payment from Miss W or return of the car. CARMONEY says that the
dealer was aware of the subsidy before the agreement was signed and has produced online
messages in support of this assertion.
It also says that Miss W was sent an initial disclosure agreement which referenced a subsidy
and information on how to request information on the exact amount of the commissions, but
she didnt take up this option.
I noted the invoice from the dealer was quite basic and showed the cost of £23,380 due less 
the deposit paid of £4,000. There was no reference to any subsidy.
I also read the finance agreement and it referred to the total amount of credit of £19,380. It
also stated that a deposit of £4,000 is due and the total payable is £23,380 with 0% interest.
There is no mention of any other sum being due from Miss W. Section 1.1 of the terms and
conditions of the finance agreement says: The amount of credit will be paid to the supplier of
the Goods / Services when both you and us have signed the Agreement.
It seemed to me that Miss W had every expectation that she had signed up to pay £323 for 
60 months and no more than that. Like our investigator I have seen nothing that shows Miss 
W was told that somebody would have to find some £4,000 and certainly nothing that would 
indicate she would have to pay this sum. The agreement referred to it being interest free and 
the monthly sums she agreed to pay meant that she would cover the capital so I could see 
that Miss W had no reason to think there was an additional sum to pay.
Miss W said she dealt with CARMONEY in respect of the finance and it arranged the loan. I
considered it was responsible for ensuring she was aware of the full terms of the financing of
the car acquisitions. I said she had been left in a situation whereby she is being pursued for 
some £4,000 she had not expected to have to pay. I considered that needed to be remedied.
I agreed with our investigator that the best method of resolving the matter would be for the 
agreement to be unwound. However, I was concerned that this may not be within the power 
of CARMONEY and so I issued a provisional decision to allow for an alternative solution. I 
thought that if the agreement couldnt be unwound then I considered CARMONEY should 
cover the shortfall rather than Miss W.
CARMONEY has not responded and Miss W said she agreed with my provisional decision. It 
follows that I have no reason to change my conclusion and so my provisional decision 
stands
Putting things right
 CARMONEY should do as directed below. I would expect this matter to be resolved without 
delay and if the agreement cannot be unwound within eight weeks of Miss Ws acceptance 
CARMONEY should fund the shortfall.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld and I direct CARMONEY LIMITED to:
Arrange for the agreement to be unwound, with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the deposit to be refunded, with 8% interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Pay £250 compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience that has been 
caused.
However, if this cannot be arranged then I direct CARMONEY LIMITED to fund the shortfall 
of £4,286.31 and pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman