DRN-3838743
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy how John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled her request 
for help to recover money following the cancellation of airline flights. 
What happened
In January 2020, Miss M paid £1,091.57 for some flights to and from Thailand. She used a 
travel provider to book the flights, who Ill refer to as G. The outbound flight was scheduled 
for the end of March 2020, with the return flight two weeks later. Miss M used her JLFS 
Partnership card to make the payment.
Three days before she was due to fly, Miss M received confirmation from the airline that her 
flights had been cancelled because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Miss M tried to get a refund 
from the airline, but they referred her back to G. G referred her to the airline, and Miss M 
wasnt getting any success when she tried to contact either of them.
Because of that, in July 2020 she asked JLFS for help to recover the money. JLFS didnt 
raise a chargeback claim, and in March 2021 they sent Miss M a response to say they 
couldnt consider a claim under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as there 
wasnt a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship in place as shed paid G to arrange 
the flights, but her contract was with the airline. 
Unhappy with this, Miss M contacted our service, and a complaint was raised for her. She 
wasnt happy with JLFSs response to her complaint and asked our service to look into 
things for her. Our investigator did and said that JLFS had enough information to raise a 
chargeback when Miss M first contacted them in July 2020. She said the chargeback was 
now out of time to be raised, so JLFS should refund Miss M the total amount of £1,091.57. 
She said JLFS should rework Miss Ms credit card account from the date they should have 
raised the dispute and if that results in a credit balance for Miss M, JLFS should pay 8% 
simple interest per year on that credit from the date it would have arisen to the date it ceased 
to exist. 
JLFS didnt agree with this. They said they couldnt raise the chargeback when Miss M first 
got in touch with them, and theyd asked her to provide the relevant terms and conditions. 
They said they never received them, so couldnt take a chargeback claim any further. 
As JLFS didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Mastercard. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for JLFS to ask for a payment Miss M made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under S75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
Its important to note that neither a chargeback nor S75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under 
S75. Usually, it wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as the 
bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds.
In Miss Ms case I dont think JLFS acted reasonably from the outset when they didnt raise a 
chargeback claim for her with the information she had provided to them. JLFS are bound by 
the scheme rules that apply. And each chargeback reason has a code attributed to it. In the 
Mastercard scheme rules I think there are a couple of chargeback reasons that could have 
been applied in this case, and I note that our investigator has mentioned the code for a credit 
not processed. I dont necessarily think that would have been the most appropriate 
chargeback code to use, but which code was applicable isnt material to my decision here 
that I dont think JLFS acted reasonably from the outset. 
However, just for clarity, Im more persuaded that, because Miss Ms flights had been 
cancelled, the code Goods or Services Not Provided would have been the most appropriate 
one for JLFS to pursue a chargeback against. The rules set out the supporting documents 
that would be needed from Miss M to allow a chargeback claim to be brought. In this case, it 
needed to be an email, letter, message, or Dispute Resolution Form that included a 
description of Miss Ms complaint in enough detail to enable all parties to understand the 
dispute. It also required a reasonably specific description of the goods/services purchased.
When Miss M first raised her dispute with JLFS, she provided them with a completed dispute 
resolution form outlining what her claim was for and that her flights had been cancelled. So, 
Im satisfied that was enough to meet the criteria for a chargeback claim to be at least 
raised, and JLFS should have done so at that point. In later correspondence with our service JLFS have also provided the terms and conditions from G  so I think its clear they had 
enough information to understand Miss Ms reasons for the dispute. 
Had JLFS acted as expected from the outset, I think the chargeback claim would have had a 
good chance of success, as it would have been difficult for G to provide a valid defence to 
the claim when the flights had clearly been cancelled, and not by Miss M. 
Because Im satisfied JLFS should have raised a chargeback claim, I havent gone on to 
consider S75 in this decision. 
As Im satisfied JLFS should have pursued the chargeback claim with the information they 
had, I would normally now ask JLFS to look at raising the chargeback, provided it was still 
within the time limits specified by the rules. But in this case, its now outside of those time 
limits. So, I think its fair to ask JLFS to refund the total amount of £1,091. 57 to Miss M. 
They should make this refund to her credit card at the time they declined her claim by 
reworking her account and paying 8% simple interest on any periods of positive balance that 
come about as a result of the rework of the account. JLFS should also explain their workings 
to Miss M when they confirm settlement to her in writing. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
must:
Refund Miss M the total amount of £1,091.57 for her cancelled flights.
Pay Miss M 8% simple interest on any periods of positive balance that come about 
as a result of the reworking of the account, as outlined above. 
*If John Lewis Financial Services Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss M how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman