DRN-4018034
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) dealt with his S75 
Consumer Credit Act claim about solar panels he bought partly through his Nat West credit 
card. Ultimately, Mr Z is unhappy that Nat West did not uphold his claim.
What happened
Mr Z used his Nat West credit card to partially fund the purchase of solar panels in 2011. Mr 
Z believes the benefits and costs of the solar panels were misrepresented to him as the 
panels are essentially not providing the cost savings that he says he was led to believe he 
would get. Mr Z is also unhappy about elements of the installation.
Mr Z submitted a claim to Nat West under S75 Consumer Credit Act as this does, in certain 
circumstances, give him an equal right to claim against the credit provider, rather than 
having to claim against the supplier of the solar panels. 
Nat West considered Mr Zs claim but explained that it felt the claim had been raised too 
late. So it did not ultimately uphold the claim. Mr Z was unhappy about this and after 
complaining to Nat West about this, he referred his complaint to our service. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who set out why they felt that Nat 
West did not act unreasonably when explaining Mr Zs claim had been raised too late. Mr Z 
responded to the investigator with further comments around why he felt he had been missold 
the solar panels. Mr Z also asked that his complaint is reconsidered, so it has been referred 
to me as the last stage in our process so I can issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might 
have under S75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Zs complaint, Ive taken 
S75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr Z pursued a claim for misrepresentation and or breach of 
contract. 
Our service is not a court but an alternative to the courts. Mr Zs complaint is essentially that 
Nat West hasnt properly exercised its duties under the finance agreement it had with him. 
Specifically, its duties under S75, which says: 
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Nat Wests stance is that any claim Mr Z had against the solar panels supplier is now time 
barred due to the Limitation Act 1980. Specifically, it relies on those provisions that say a 
cause of action, of the types complained about here, shall not be brought after the expiration 
of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Mr Zs issues relate to an 
alleged misrepresentation by the solar panel supplier.
The alleged misrepresentation relates to what Mr Z was told about the benefits of the solar 
panels. More specifically and amongst other things, this relates to the amount of energy 
savings the solar panels would produce and the overall cost of the solar panels when 
factoring in their cost against the savings. Mr Z also raises concerns about the quality of the 
installation, which could be considered to be a breach of contract when considering the 
requirements under the relevant legislation at the time that applies to supplying goods and 
services. 
Both the alleged misrepresentation and breach of contract took place around the time Mr Z 
took out the panels in November 2011. For Mr Z to be able to claim under S75 any claim 
would need to be made within 6 years of November 2011.
When considering whether Mr Z has a valid claim under S75, Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for Nat West to also consider the Limitations Act 1980 to decide whether the claim was 
raised in time. The Limitations Act 1980 essentially requires any claim to have been brought 
within 6 years of the event complained about, which here is the alleged misrepresentation 
and breach of contract in 2011. The 6 years can be extended but requires the claimant to 
have brought their claim within three years of being aware, or when they ought to have been 
aware, of cause for complaint. 
Ive not been presented with any evidence to show that Mr Z did actually bring a claim within 
6 years of 2011 and it appears the earliest any claim was raised was in March 2022, which is 
considerably more than 6 years later. I have also considered whether the claim period 
should be extended under the 3 year element of the rule but I dont find the claim period 
should be extended beyond the original 6 years. 
Mr Zs alleged misrepresentation relates to the solar panels, and associated benefits, not 
being in line with what he says he was led to believe by the salesman. Mr Z would have 
been receiving feed in tariff payments, electricity meter readings, plus other things that would 
have alerted him to the fact the solar panels were not producing the benefits Mr Z says he 
was told about. This should have been apparent within around a year of taking out the solar 
panels. And definitely within two years. Similarly, considering what Mr Z has said about the 
quality of the installation, the issue should have been apparent within a reasonably short 
period of time and withing 2 years of the installation. As Mr Z should have therefore 
reasonably had cause to raise his claim within 2 years of taking out the panels, this would 
not extend the 6 year part of the Limitations Act further. 
Having considered the specific circumstances here, it is likely that any claim in court that Mr 
Z would have against the solar panel provider would be considered to have been made out 
of time, in relation to the alleged misrepresentation and breach of contract. And 
consequently therefore, any like claim Mr Z may have had against Nat West would also be 
considered out of time. Having considered the implications of the Limitations Act 1980 
alongside S75 Consumer Credit Act, I dont consider Nat West acted unreasonably when 
deciding Mr Zs claim had been raised too late. 
I have noted the detailed submissions Mr Z made in response to the investigators view, but 
as the investigator has already explained, these issues relate to the merits of the claim 
rather than whether the claim was brought in time. As the claim has not been brought in 
time, these points are not something that I need to address here. I appreciate Mr Z will remain unhappy with what I have set out here and I have noted what 
he has said about other successful claims that our service has decided. But those cases are 
likely to be where the claim was raised within the required timescales, which is unfortunately 
for Mr Z not the case here. And whether Mr Z was actually misled at the time of the sale by 
the solar panel salesperson is not something I have actually considered as his claim has 
been raised too late.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc as I do not consider it has treated Mr Z unreasonably or unfairly when declining his claim 
under S75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman