DRN-3445233
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) registered a default against 
him for missed payments on his credit card.
What happened
Mr J took out a Barclaycard credit card in 2013. His credit limit was increased from £400 to 
£1,900 in 2016, but Mr J said he had a low income at the time, and was also suffering 
severely with his mental health. He says he informed Barclaycard of his financial difficulties 
in April 2017, but it wasnt considered, and further charges and interest were applied to his 
account. The account was defaulted, and this information was recorded on Mr Js credit file. 
Mr J says all these issues caused him to have a breakdown. He says his credit limit 
shouldnt have been increased and he would like the default marker removed from his record 
and the debt written off.
Barclaycard said Mr Js complaint regarding irresponsible lending had been referred to us 
too late and it didnt consent to us looking into it. 
Regarding the rest of Mr Js complaint, Barclaycard said Mr Js repayments became erratic 
and it closed his account in September 2017. It later registered a default on his credit file as 
an outstanding balance was still owed and payments were not being made. It said the 
information reported to the credit reference agencies was correct and cant be changed. But 
Barclaycard confirmed that all charges and interest had been refunded to Mr J for the period 
in which he was experiencing financial difficulty. Unhappy with the response, Mr J referred 
his complain to us. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the complaint 
about the increase to Mr Js credit limit was referred out of time. Regarding the other part of 
Mr Js complaint, she noted his statements showed arrears started to build in June 2017 and 
letters were subsequently sent to him advising hed missed his contractual minimum 
payments. And Mr J was sent a default notice in March 2018. As no payment was made, a 
default was registered in April 2018. She thought Barclaycard had acted fairly and recorded 
the default within a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr J doesnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He thought it was irresponsible 
lending and Barclaycard should have carried out more checks on its affordability as a 
minimum before it increased his credit limit. 
Another ombudsman concluded that Mr Js complaint about irresponsible lending was 
referred to us too late. So, this part of Mr Js complaint cant be revisited. But his complaint 
about financial difficulties leading to a default being registered has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr J but having thought about all thats been said, 
I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr J for sharing with us about the difficulties he has faced in recent 
years. I do appreciate its been a very difficult and challenging time for him. But I must put 
aside my feelings of empathy and look at this case impartially based on the evidence.
 
When a consumer is in financial hardship a lender is required to treat such circumstances 
positively and sympathetically. So, as mentioned above, in this decision Ive focused on 
Barclaycards actions after Mr J made it aware of his financial circumstances to see if it met 
those obligations.
 
Mr J says Barclaycard continued to apply interest and charges while he was in financial 
difficulty. Barclaycard recognised it could have done more to support him when it became 
aware of his circumstances. So, it has since refunded £555.91 to the account in 2019, 
reducing the amount Mr J owed. The refund covered all the interest and charges it applied 
from April 2017 until his account was closed. Barclaycard confirmed there were no further 
charges or fees applied to the account after this time. It also paid Mr J £75 in compensation. 
So, Ive thought about whether its done enough to put things right and if it treated Mr J fairly 
in recording the default against him. 
Interest charges and account fees
Ive looked at whether Mr Js account would have been in arrears if the interest and charges, 
which have now been refunded, hadnt been applied to the account in the first place, and if 
they ultimately caused the default. Barclaycards refund was used to offset the arrears, but I 
can see that there remained an outstanding balance on the account. This indicates there 
was already a balance owing on the account before Mr J made it aware of his circumstances 
in April 2017. I also note Mr J didnt make any payments to the account for several months 
prior to the default being recorded. So, I dont think Barclaycard was responsible for the 
arrears on the account or for Mr J defaulting. 
Default
Guidance set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is 
at least three months behind with their payments a default may be registered, and it would 
expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind on their 
contractual payment. Ive reviewed the information regarding the application of the default, 
Ive also looked at Mr Js credit card statements and I note there were no payments made to 
the account in the six months before the default notice was sent to him. Barclaycard has an 
obligation to register a default with the credit reference agencies when payments are 
continuously missed, so I dont think it did anything wrong by registering the default on Mr Js 
account.
I recognise in March 2018 Mr J informed Barclaycard he had made an application for 
bankruptcy, but I dont think it means it shouldnt have registered the default. It is required to 
record accurate information with the credit references agencies, and I think it did.
Mr J would like the outstanding arrears written off, but I dont think Barclaycard is obligated 
to do this. It asked Mr J to provide written confirmation of his condition from his doctor so it 
could consider clearing the remaining balance he owes on his account and I dont think 
thats an unreasonable request. If Mr J wants Barclaycard to consider this point further he 
will need to provide it with the medical evidence it has requested so it can assess whether 
Mr Js circumstances warrant writing off the debt he has accrued and had the benefit of. 
CompensationAs well as refunding the charges and fees, Barclaycard paid Mr J £75 in compensation prior 
to him raising this complaint and I think thats fair. As mentioned above, in circumstances like 
this, where a consumer informs a lender theyre having difficulty making their repayments, I 
would expect a lender to act sympathetically toward them and work with them to come to a 
suitable repayment agreement. However, I would also expect the consumer to cooperate 
with the lender. 
Barclaycards notes show it wrote to Mr J and asked him to contact its dedicated support line 
so it could assess his circumstances and provide appropriate support. It also placed a hold 
on Mr Js account for 30 days which meant it didnt contact him and didnt charge him 
interest during this period. However, I cant see that Mr J contacted Barclaycard as 
requested.
 
While I sympathise with Mr Js situation, I find Barclaycard made several attempts to provide 
additional support, but as he didnt contact its team, it made it difficult for it to do so. 
However, I appreciate it will have been distressing to find Barclaycard continued to charge 
him when he was struggling to make his repayments. I think £75 is fair compensation for the 
distress this will have caused, and I dont think it needs to do anything more than it already 
has.
 
Mr J says Barclaycard sold his debt and he is being harassed for payment by a third party, 
which he says he isnt in a financial position to make. Barclaycard confirmed the debt has 
not been sold on. Mr J will need to address the issue with Barclaycard and work with it to 
come to a suitable arrangement for the repayment.
My final decision
For the reason mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman