DRN-3396917
The complaint
Mr W, Mrs W and, their son, Mr W are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a 
claim made on their travel insurance policy.
As it was Mr and Mrs Ws son, Mr W, who had his trip cancelled, Ive referred to him 
throughout my decision for simplicity.  
What happened
Mr W had the benefit of an annual, premier, multi-trip travel insurance policy,
underwritten by Great Lakes (the policy). The policy was issued in August 2019 and 
covered the period 26 August 2019 to 25 August 2020.
At the start of March 2020, Mr W booked, and paid for, a trip to a country Ill call S - 
departing on 30 June and returning on 7 July 2020. He was due to travel with a group of 
friends. Flights and accommodation were booked separately with different providers. 
Around 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential travel to S due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. And around two days 
later, on 17 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but essential international travel to any 
destination. 
On 23 March 2020, the FCO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the UK 
and the government of England announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction 
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
Lockdown restrictions in England started to be lifted in phases from mid-May 2020. And on 1 
June 2020, the restriction on leaving home was replaced with a requirement to be home 
overnight, and people were permitted to meet outside in groups of up to six people.
On 9 June 2020 Mr Ws flights were cancelled by the airline. He was able to obtain a refund 
from the airline for the cost of the flights. However, he couldnt obtain a refund for his pre-
paid accommodation. 
Mr W made a claim on the policy for his share of the accommodation costs (around £400), 
which was declined by Great Lakes. Although, it provided different reasons for declining the 
claim, it ultimately concluded in its final response to Mr W dated 4 November 2020 that it 
was right to decline the claim because the reason which led to Mr Ws trip being cancelled 
wasnt listed as an insured peril covered under the cancellation section of the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Great Lakes also said that the policy didnt cover any claims relating 
to government regulations.
Mr W was unhappy that his claim had been declined so complained to our Service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly declined the 
claim.
Mr W disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim.
I know Mr W will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below Im satisfied Great 
Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, page 24 of the policy sets out the 
circumstances under which Great Lakes provides cover if a trip is cancelled (or cut short). 
These are accurately set out in our investigators view dated 22 March 2022. I dont think 
Great Lakes has unfairly concluded Mr Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any those reasons. This 
means his claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy.
But even if Im wrong on that point, the cancellation section of the policy sets out exclusions 
specifically relating to cancellation claims. And on page 26, clause (p), it expressly says Mr 
W isnt covered for:
prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of 
the booked Trip due to government action
Ill refer to this as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr Ws claim.
Like our investigator, I think a combination of factors  the prevalence of Covid-19, FCO 
advice and government restrictions both in the UK and S  are all likely to have impacted to 
some degree on his trip being cancelled.
But Im satisfied that the main reason for Mr Ws trip being cancelled was the government 
restrictions in both the UK and S. And Great Lakes has, ultimately, acted reasonably by 
relying on prohibitive regulations exclusion to decline the claim for the following reasons: 
At the time Mr Ws flights were cancelled, it was a requirement of Ss government 
that all international arrivals to S would need to self-isolate in their residence/hotel for 
14 days and movement was limited to essential trips. Im satisfied that this amounted 
to a prohibitive regulation made by Ss government. I accept what Mr W says about S 
opening its borders with some countries from 21 June 2020  which included 
welcoming passengers from the UK. But that was after his flights had already been 
cancelled by the airline. 
At the time Mr Ws flights were cancelled (9 June 2020), the government of England 
had started to loosen lockdown restrictions but the restriction of leaving home was 
only replaced with a requirement to be at home overnight, and people were only 
permitted to meet outside in groups of up to six people. Im satisfied that this 
amounted to a prohibitive regulation made by the government of England.
As of 9 June 2020, when the flights were cancelled, the FCO was still advising 
against all but essential international travel  including to S. And that advice still 
remained in place at the date on which Mr W was due to travel (30 June 2020). It wasnt until early July 2020 when the FCO announced exemptions to the FCO advice 
in respect of travel to certain countries, known as travel corridors. And a travel 
corridor wasnt put in place between the UK and S until 4 July 2020  after the date 
Mr W was due to travel. So, I think its reasonbale to conclude that the FCO advice in 
place on 9 June together with the lockdown restrictions (although gradually eased by 
this time) amount to a prohibitive regulation. 
I appreciate Mr W has been left out of pocket as a result of not being able to go on his trip 
through no fault of his own. But travel insurance policies dont cover every scenario. 
Although Mr W says the friends, who hed been due to travel to S with, all had their travel 
insurance claims accepted for their share of the pre-paid accommodation costs that point 
alone doesnt mean Great Lakes has unfairly declined Mr Ws claim. Travel insurance 
policies are different and often contain different terms depending on the risks each individual 
insurer wants to insure, and the level of cover purchased. Having considered the terms of 
the policy Mr W had the benefit of, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining his claim for the reasons set out above.
Further, I know that the investigator mentioned in his view the FCO exclusion which is 
contained at page 47 of the policy within the general exclusions. Mr W has raised some 
comments on that exclusion. But, ultimately, as I dont think it has any bearing on the 
outcome of the complaint, I havent gone into any further detail about the FCO exclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, Mrs W and 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman