DRN-3408717
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G isnt happy with the service it received from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding the administration and closing of its accounts.
Gs complaint is brought to this service by one of its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr H.
What happened
G held a Business Current Account (BCA) with Barclays, as well as a Business Loan 
Account (BLA) and a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
In August 2021, the BLA and the BBL were in a position of arrears. Barclays wrote to G 
about the outstanding arrears on the loans, and in September 2021, Mr H called Barclays 
and arranged a six-month payment holiday on the BBL as well as a 30-day breathing space 
hold on the BLA.
In January 2022, Mr H contacted Barclays to discuss Gs accounts, but was told that Gs 
BLA and BCA had been closed due to the outstanding arrears on the BLA and Gs failure to 
contact Barclays about the accounts. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint 
on Gs behalf.
Barclays looked at Gs complaint. They confirmed theyd attempted to contact G on several 
occasions following the end of the 30-day hold period on the BLA, but without success. 
Barclays also explained that this meant Gs BLA had then been administered in line with 
Barclays collections and recoveries process, which had resulted in the closure of both the 
BLA and BCA. Finally, Barclays confirmed to G that it didnt feel it had acted unfairly towards 
G by following that process. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred Gs 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Gs complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed the situation, and so it didnt uphold Gs complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that when Mr H spoke with Barclays in September 2021 and 
arranged the 30-day breathing space on the BLA that it was clearly explained to him at that 
time that the onus would be on G to contact Barclays when the 30-day hold expired the 
following month, in October 2021.
But Mr H didnt contact Barclays in October 2021 as was required, and indeed nobody from 
G contact Barclays for several months, until Mr H himself spoke with Barclays in January 
2022  approximately three months later than should have been the case.
This was despite it being made clear to Mr H that a representative of G would need to 
contact Barclays when the 30-day hold came to an end in October 2021, and despite a 
series of letters being sent to G by Barclays when the 30-day hold ended and with no-one 
from G having contacted Barclays as required. 
When the agreed 30-day hold ended on Gs BLA, the requirement for G to clear the arrears 
outstanding on the BLA at that time resumed. And given that G didnt clear those arrears or 
contact Barclays to update them as to Gs financial position, it seems fair to me that Barclays 
would then administer Gs BLA in line with its collections and recoveries process.
This process included the issuance in December 2021 of a formal demand notice by 
Barclays regarding Gs BLA and BCA. This notice was issued at a time when Gs BLA had 
fallen several months in arrears and when there continued to be no agreed plan in place in 
regard to those outstanding arrears. And so, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to have made the decision to begin the process to terminate Gs BLA and BCA 
agreements as it did at that time.
Mr H did contact Barclays on 11 January 2021. But Barclays have confirmed that a 
representative of G would have needed to have contacted and made agreeable repayment 
arrangements with Barclays in regard to the BLA arrears no later than 4 January 2022, in 
order to prevent the closure of the BLA and BCA.
But even when Mr H contacted Barclays on 11 January 2022, he doesnt appear to have 
called with the intention of resolving the outstanding arrears on Gs BLA, but rather wanted 
Barclays to release a payment that had been made into the BCA. And when members of the 
Barclays team which were now administering Gs BLA attempted to call Mr H back over the 
next several days to try to discuss the arrears, their calls werent answered by Mr H.
Mr H remains unhappy that Barclays wouldnt return the payment paid into Gs account in 
error. But given that G was in arrears with Barclays, as described, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Barclays to apply that received payment to reduce the balance outstanding 
that G owed to them, either on the BCA itself or using the right of off-set to reduce the 
balance on one of Gs other accounts. And I cant see that Mr H provided Barclays with any 
compelling reason why that shouldnt have been the case.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have done anything wrong here. 
Instead, I feel that Mr H, as a representative of G, didnt engage with Barclays as was 
required of him, despite being clearly advised by Barclays of the need to engage with them 
when the 30-day hold period on the BLA ended, and despite a series of letters and 
communication attempts made by Barclays following the end of that hold period. 
Ultimately, this led to Barclays following their collections and recoveries process which 
resulted in the termination of the BLA agreement and the closure of the BCA. And I dont feel 
that Barclays actions in this regard were unfair, given the many attempts that Barclays made 
to try to engage with G before taking those steps, as described above. 
Finally, while Barclays terminated the BLA agreement and closed the BCA, Gs BBL 
remained active, with Barclays informing G that it could continue to service the BBL via a 
non-Barclays bank account moving forwards. Its my understanding that the BBL currently 
sits in a position of arrears and that Barclays have recently issued a formal demand notice 
against it. Again, Barclays administration of this account seems fair to me, and I would 
encourage G to engage with Barclays about this account as soon as possible.
I realise this might not be the outcome G was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I trust that Mr H will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman