DRN-2882531
The complaint
Mr S complains about Covea Insurance plcs decision to change the underwriter of its travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr S had an annual travel insurance policy, which was provided by Covea and which was 
underwritten by an insurer Ill refer to as A. The policy formed part of an overall Executive 
Home package. The policy was due to renew on 30 June 2020. 
In December 2019, Covea decided to change the underwriter of its travel insurance policy to 
an underwriter Ill call M. Ms contract terms specifically excluded cover for epidemics or 
pandemics. 
Covea wrote to Mr S on 2 June 2020 to invite him to renew his insurance package. The 
renewal letter explained that Mr S would need to contact M to go through medical screening 
before a quote for travel insurance could be provided. The letter also explained that M 
excluded claims for epidemics and pandemics. This meant that Mr S would potentially be left 
without cover for Covid-19 related claims for holidays which hed booked to take place during 
the following policy year.
Mr S considered Coveas decision was unfair and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He considered Covea was 
entitled to make a business decision to change underwriter. He was satisfied that Covea had 
given Mr S clear information about the change to his policy in good time to enable him to 
choose whether or not to take up renewal. And he didnt think there was any evidence to 
suggest that Covea decision had led to Mr S suffering a material, financial loss.
Mr S disagreed. Ive summarised his response to our investigator. He said his complaint was 
that the policy Covea had offered at renewal didnt provide ongoing protection for holidays 
which had been booked during the previous policy year. He didnt consider that Covea had 
acted professionally as it hadnt taken responsibility for providing ongoing protection. He felt 
the reasons it hadnt taken on this liability were down to financial concerns. He maintained it 
was accepted practice and custom for a carrier which took on a portfolio of travel insurance 
to provide ongoing cancellation cover. He also argued that it was only down to his 
persistence that hed been able to mitigate some of his losses and there were several where 
he was unsure whether hed be able to recover other holiday outlays or move trip dates.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr S is unhappy broadly because he considers Covea failed to ensure that he would be 
provided with ongoing cancellation cover for Covid-19 related claims after it chose to change 
its insurance provider. As the investigator explained, were not the industry regulator. We 
have no power to tell a financial business we cover how to operate or what products it must 
offer. We also wont generally interfere with the legitimate exercise of a financial business 
commercial discretion, unless theres evidence that a policyholder has been singled out 
unfairly in any way. In this case, Covea has told us that it chose to switch underwriters in 
December 2019 following a tender process and because it felt Ms policy was more 
beneficial to its customers. Im satisfied that this was a commercial decision which Covea 
was entitled to make. There was no obligation on it to continue to place its book of business 
with A. As this change in underwriter affected all of Coveas customers in similar 
circumstances to Mr S, Im not persuaded its unfairly singled him out in any way.
Ive then turned to consider the relevant regulators rules  the Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). Mr S renewed his policy each year through Covea. At each 
renewal, Covea set out the applicable insurers terms and the price of the policy and Mr S 
was free to choose whether or not to take up the renewal offer through it. There is no 
requirement in ICOBS for an insurance broker to ensure it offers a customer the same level 
of cover at renewal. This means that Covea wasnt obliged to ensure that Ms contract 
mirrored the provision offered by As policy. ICOBS does set out Coveas obligations when 
providing a customer with information about a policy. ICOBS 6.1.5 (1) states:
A firm must ensure that a customer is given appropriate information about a policy in good 
time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed choice about 
the arrangements proposed. 
So Ive thought about whether Covea has met its obligations to provide Mr S with 
appropriate information in good time. The policy was due to renew on 30 June 2020. Covea 
sent its renewal offer on 2 June 2020  four weeks ahead of the planned renewal date. Im 
satisfied then that this constituted good time and gave Mr S 28 days to source alternative 
cover if he was unhappy with the cover offered by the new insurer.
Page two of the renewal schedule stated:
IMPORTANT - Please note that losses arising from pandemics are a general exclusion 
under the new Travel product, however, there are circumstances where the Travel providers 
are able to consider claims arising from the COVID-19 outbreak which are detailed in the link 
below:
If your (sic) renewing and you do not have any holidays booked in advance, you may wish to
reconsider whether this Travel product is currently suitable for your demands and needs.
In my view, Covea made it very clear in the renewal letter that M excluded claims arising 
from pandemics. So I think it gave Mr S clear and appropriate information on this point to 
allow him to make an informed choice about whether to proceed with renewal.  It also 
directed Mr S to consider whether the policy would still meet his needs. In totality then, Im satisfied that Covea met its regulatory requirement under ICOBS 6.1.5(1) to provide Mr S 
with appropriate information in good time.
Based on the information Mr S was given, it was then down to him to decide whether or not 
to take up the renewal offer through Covea, or to look elsewhere. He wasnt bound to renew 
through Covea and it was open to him to find a policy which didnt exclude claims arising 
from Covid-19.
I appreciate Mr S has referred to future potential losses, as well as losses hes mitigated. 
However, hes only provided a brief overview to suggest that potential future losses might 
arise. And I havent seen enough to show me that Mr S potential future losses are down to 
Coveas decision to change the underwriter of its travel insurance policies. So theres no 
basis on which I could reasonably make an award of compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that Covea was reasonably entitled to change its insurance provider 
and that it gave Mr S appropriate information about the upcoming change to his policy if he 
went ahead with renewal. So Im not directing Covea to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman