DRN-3856153
The complaint
Mr M complains that his Experian Limited credit score went down after he moved.
 
What happened
Mr M moved home in May 2022 and has told us he updated his details with banks, the 
council and his utility providers. But Mr M didnt update his address with Experian. When Mr 
M next checked his credit score, it had gone down by about 110 points. But when Mr M 
updated his address, his score only slightly increased and didnt go back up to its previous 
position. 
Experian responded to Mr Ms complaint and said there were various factors that had 
impacted his credit score. Experian said Mr M wasnt showing as registered on the electoral 
roll and that he had adverse information recorded from several years before. Experian also 
noted Mr M had a defaulted account which had been subject to missed payments. In 
addition, Experian said Mr M had two new utilities account that reduced the average age of 
accounts on his credit file. 
Experian added that its credit score isnt shared with lenders or other businesses and said 
its a guideline for customers to understand how lenders may view an applicants financial 
status. Experian said its credit score didnt affect lenders decisions. 
An investigator at this service looked at this service. In its file submission to this service, 
Experian advised Mr M had a default showing at a linked address that was also impacting Mr 
Ms credit file. The investigator thought Experian had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and 
said it would need to look at the linked default as a separate issue. 
Mr M asked to appeal and said that despite reporting a dispute about the default at a linked 
address the situation hadnt been dealt with. Mr M also said he thought the changes were 
unfair as hed taken steps to improve his circumstances but his score reduced. As Mr M 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complained that his credit score reduced after he changed address, despite updating 
his details with Experian. I understand why Mr M has raised concerns and asked for a more 
detailed explanation. Experians provided various details about factors impacting Mr Ms 
credit score, including adverse credit thats recorded from some years ago and a satisfied 
defaulted account. Experians also explained Mr M wasnt showing as registered on the 
electoral roll at his new address and that new utilities account had reduced the overall age of 
credit showing on his file. So whilst I understand Mr M feels the decrease in score is unfair, 
Im satisfied Experian has given details of the issues that have impacted it. I havent seen 
anything that shows Experian acted unfairly when giving the credit score. 
Mr Ms score reduced when he moved and only slightly increased once he updated his 
address with Experian. But, as Ive set out above, Experians confirmed there are several 
factors at play and advised that the credit score provided is correct. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr S, but Im satisfied the information available shows thats correct. 
I also think its fair to note that Experians confirmed Mr Ms credit score (the number if gives 
him) isnt shared with businesses or lenders when a credit search is completed. The credit 
score Experian provides is for the consumer only and is an indication of how lenders and 
businesses may view his credit file. So whilst I understand the score needs to be accurate, 
its not something that would directly impact a credit search carried out by a lender. 
Mr M has asked about a satisfied default. Once a default balance is repaid, the account is 
noted as satisfied with a £0 balance on a customers credit file. But the record itself will 
remain on file for six years from the date of default. I havent found that Experian made a 
mistake with the default entry Mr Ms raised. 
Mr Ms raised further concerns about a default showing at a linked address. As this didnt 
form part of Mr Ms original complaint to Experian, I cant deal with the issue as part of this 
decision. Our investigator is in contact with Mr M and Experian and will liaise with both 
parties so a separate complaint can be looked at. As this is a new issue, we cant look at it 
as part of this decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied Experian dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman