DRN-2926787
The complaint
 Mr H complains about his insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) and 
additional damage caused to his vehicle when it was returned to him following an accident.
References to Advantage also include their agents.
This decision relates solely to Mr Hs complaint to this service in September 2020 about 
additional damage to his car that he maintains was caused by Advantages salvage agent 
during the time that his vehicle was with them following the accident, which happened in 
January 2020. It does not cover other elements of complaint raised by Mr H to Advantage, 
which they responded to in their initial Final Response Letter of March 2020. Thats because 
Mr Hs complaint to this service was more than six months after the Final Response Letter, 
the period during which consumers can complain to this service if they are unhappy with a 
businesss response. There were no exceptional circumstances that would have enabled this 
service to decide to consider those elements of complaint brought outside the six month 
period.
 
What happened
 Mr Hs vehicle was involved in an accident in January 2020. He made a claim under his 
motor insurance policy with Advantage. Due to the extent of the damage, together with the 
age and mileage of his vehicle, Advantage considered his vehicle to be beyond economical 
repair on the basis of an engineer report on the damage. In February 2020 Advantage 
offered Mr H the estimated market value of the vehicle (£4,398), less his policy excess (£95) 
and less a salvage retention figure (£1,161). The latter figure reflected the fact that Mr H said 
that he wanted to keep the vehicle and represented the value that Advantage would have 
received had they sent the vehicle to auction. Mr H accepted the offer but said that he only 
wanted to be paid the sum after the return of his vehicle.
Mr Hs vehicle was delivered back to him by the salvage agent at the end of February 2020. 
But Mr H noticed additional damage to the front and rear bumpers that wasnt the result of 
the original accident (which was to the front passenger door and sill). There was also 
additional damage to the drivers door. Mr H maintains that he took photographs of the 
additional damage and complained to Advantage.
 
Advantage considered Mr Hs complaint but in their second Final Response Letter of June 
2020 they said that their salvage agent had stated that they had not caused any damage to 
Mr Hs vehicle that would not be expected when being stored at a vehicle salvage yard. 
Advantage added that they regretted any possible damage caused, but went on to say that 
they would not cover any additional damage given Mr H had chosen to keep the vehicle. 
Advantage also stated that they had reviewed the areas of [additional] damage alleged by 
Mr H and concluded that it was minor and could be repaired at minimal cost. 
Advantage also noted that they had, separately, provided Mr H with a hire car from the time 
of his complaint to their response on the understanding that it was the additional damage to 
the vehicle that had made it undriveable. Advantage added that they deemed the costs of 
extending a hire car (£1,876) would outweigh the costs needed to repair any additional 
damage, and therefore that they had proportionately compensated Mr H. They concluded 
that they would not take any further action.
From the evidence provided to this service during our investigation, Mr H then repaired the 
additional damage privately in July 2020 and told us that it cost him £850 to do so.
 
Mr H was unhappy at Advantages response to his complaint and complained to this service 
in September 2020. He asked to be reimbursed for the cost of repairs in respect of the 
damage to his vehicle that he maintains was caused by the salvage agent.
In responding to this services request for their complaint file in order to consider Mr Hs 
complaint, Advantage told us in January 2021 that having reviewed the complaint in full they 
had looked at the pictures of Mr Hs vehicle taken by the salvage agent after the accident 
alongside pictures of the vehicle taken by Mr H after it was returned to him. Advantage had 
concluded that there was additional damage to Mr Hs vehicle. In recognition of this 
Advantage offered to reduce the salvage retention figure for Mr Hs vehicle by £86. 
Advantage also offered to collect the vehicle back from Mr H and return to him the full 
salvage retention figure.
Our investigator concluded that Advantage hadnt treated Mr H fairly. The investigator 
concluded that Advantage should put things right by reimbursing the £850 that Mr H said it 
cost him to repair the additional damage. The investigator also concluded that Advantage 
had acted fairly in extending the period that they provided a hire car to Mr H.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators conclusions, arguing that they had fully 
indemnified Mr H by agreeing to pay him the salvage value of the vehicle. They added that 
any additional damage to the vehicle after this point was to a salvage vehicle, not a vehicle 
that was going to be repaired (by them). Therefore, any additional damage had no impact on 
the salvage value of the vehicle, and therefore they should not have to pay for any such 
damage. In other words, any additional damage did not alter the fact of it being a total loss.
 
They also argued that the documentation provided by Mr H to evidence the cost of repairs 
was not sufficient to provide proof that the repairs had actually been carried out (and that Mr 
H had incurred the cost he claimed).
Our investigator considered the points made by Advantage but maintained their view that 
they should reimburse Mr H for the cost of repairs in respect of the additional damage.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators second view and requested an Ombudsman 
review the decision. In doing so, Advantage also stated that in similar previous cases this 
service has accepted that any [additional] damage caused to a vehicle being treated as 
salvage cannot be treated in the same way as a vehicle that is not considered to be beyond 
economical repair. They argued that the damage caused in the original accident was 
sufficient to render Mr Hs vehicle beyond economical repair, so paying for repairs on the 
vehicle when they had settled the claim on the basis of the vehicle being a total loss wasnt 
appropriate.
In a provisional decision I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that Advantage should 
reimburse Mr H for the cost of repairs in respect of the additional damage. I noted that a 
single figure of £850 was provided, but not itemised or broken down into cost and any VAT 
element. I also wasnt persuaded that the degree of damage was consistent with the extent 
and cost of the repairs indicated by the invoice. While I concluded that Advantage needed to 
do more to put things right, I was persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for them to have 
to reimburse the full costs of the repairs that Mr H had carried out. In the circumstances, I 
considered that a fair and reasonable outcome was that £400 was a reasonable figure.Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Advantage has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The key issue in this complaint is, firstly, whether additional damage to Mr Hs vehicle 
was caused while it was in the possession of the salvage agent. Ive noted that 
Advantage initially rejected this point. But Ive also noted their more recent response 
that accepts additional damage was caused.
As its now agreed that additional damage was caused by Advantage, Ive gone on to 
consider the points raised by Advantage as to why they shouldnt have to pay for the 
damage.
The first point made by Advantage, in their Final Response Letter in June 2020, was 
that they provided a hire car to Mr H for periods following his complaint about the 
additional damage. But that they did so on the understanding that it was the 
additional damage that made Mr Hs vehicle undriveable  which was then found not 
to be the case. Having provided hire cars on this understanding, they didnt feel that 
they should make any further payment to Mr H.
Ive looked at the claim notes provided by Advantage, and I can see that there is a 
record stating that the hire car was extended due to the complaint from Mr H about 
additional damage and awaiting a response from the salvage agent. Theres also a 
further comment at the end of the hire period, following the outcome of Mr Hs 
complaint, that this should not have been done as Mr Hs vehicle was not undriveable 
because of the additional damage but because of the original accident damage.
 
However, it was Advantages decision to extend the hire car, and the comment above 
simply indicates that the decision was due to the complaint having been made. Ive 
also noted that it took three months for Advantage to consider the complaint before 
issuing their Final Response Letter. And given that they had photographic evidence 
from Mr H of the additional damage when the vehicle was returned to him  and that 
they subsequently stated that the damage was minimal  if there was an error made 
in extending the hire car, I think it was Advantages error and that they should have 
identified it sooner. So I dont think It would be reasonable to either seek repayment 
of the hire car costs from Mr H or to conclude that the costs should be weighed 
against the additional damage to Mr Hs vehicle. However, I would also acknowledge 
that Advantages response in extending the hire car while Mr Hs complaint was 
investigated was a positive action on their part.
The other point made by Advantage is that by agreeing a settlement for Mr Hs 
vehicle as a total loss (less a salvage retention figure) then they should not have any 
further liability in respect of the vehicle. And that any [additional] damage caused to a 
vehicle being treated as salvage cannot be treated in the same way as a vehicle that 
is not considered to be beyond economical repair. 
Ive considered these points carefully, but I dont agree. I can see that if a vehicle is 
being treated as salvage then additional damage wouldnt change the fact of it being 
salvage (other than potentially affecting the class of salvage, as Advantages 
response in January 2021 indicated). But I dont think thats the case where the 
vehicle is being kept by the policyholder with the intention of repairing it. In agreeing to keep the vehicle, Mr H was indicating that he was going to repair the vehicle for his 
own use, at his expense. While he would have had to pay for the accident damage to 
be repaired, the fact that additional damage was caused to the vehicle whilst it was 
with the salvage agent means that he would be faced with the cost of rectifying any 
such damage in addition to the accident damage. As this loss arose from damage 
while the vehicle was with the salvage agent, and that in agreeing to buy the vehicle 
it was Mr Hs property, then I think that Advantage should do more to put things right.
 
Ive considered that Advantage have offered to reduce the salvage retention value of 
the vehicle (by £86) and also that they have offered to buy back the vehicle at the full 
salvage figure. However, they have only done so after the vehicle has been repaired. 
Had the offer been made before Mr H incurred the cost of repairing the additional 
damage, then I think this offer might have been fair as Mr H wouldnt have incurred 
any loss. However, as he did incur a cost to repair the damage, then I dont think 
offering to buy back the vehicle is fair as Mr H would have incurred a loss from the 
cost of repair.
Having concluded that Advantage should have to pay for the damage to the vehicle 
while it was with their salvage agent Ive gone on to consider the impact and whether 
Mr H has lost out as a result. In principle, if a consumer has lost out as a result of the 
actions of a business, then we look to the business to put things right.
Mr H told us that he had the additional damage repaired privately in July 2020. Ive 
also considered the point made by Advantage in response to the investigators initial 
view, that Mr H had not provided sufficient evidence to prove that he had paid the 
sum that he said it cost him to have the repairs carried out. Mr H provided evidence 
to our investigator that he paid £850 to have the additional damage repaired in the 
form of a copy of an invoice dated July 2020 from a garage. Mr H told us that, as he 
was away at the time, a friend paid the garage and he in turn paid the friend. Mr H 
provided copies of bank statements and screenshots evidencing payment to the 
friend on the same date as the invoice.
Ive considered the issue carefully. Ive noted that the invoice refers to O/S Full 
respray, Front and Rear Bumper Respray and Labour. A single figure of £850 is 
set out. But it isnt itemised as to the specific work carried out, nor does it provide a 
breakdown of cost and any VAT element. Ive noted that Mr H told us that the repair 
involved having to remove both bumpers. But having looked at the pictures of the 
additional damage provided by Mr H, Im not persuaded that the degree of damage 
shown is consistent with the extent and cost of the repairs indicated by the invoice. 
While the lack of detail on the invoice creates uncertainty as to exactly what work 
was carried out (and why) the description (in particular) of O/S Full respray suggests 
extensive work on that side of the vehicle. Looking at the photographs of the damage 
in that area, its not obvious that the damage is so significant as to justify that amount 
of repair work.
 
Ive noted that Advantage stated that they thought that the cost or repair of the 
damage would be minimal. But they havent provided a more exact figure or 
estimate of how much they think the repair would have cost, which could have 
provided the basis for comparison with the cost from the invoice provided by Mr H. 
Ive also seen no evidence of different estimates having been sought by Mr H before 
the repairs were carried out, which I would have expected given that he had been 
told by Advantage that they would not be paying for repairs.
Ive concluded that Advantage needs to do more to put things right, for the reasons 
set out above. But Im currently not persuaded that its fair and reasonable for them to have to reimburse the full costs of the repairs that Mr H had carried out, given the 
conclusion Ive reached on their appropriateness. In the circumstances, as the 
repairs have already been carried out, and in the absence of an estimate from 
Advantage of what they consider it would have cost to repair the additional damage, 
Ive considered what would be a fair and reasonable outcome. Taking all the 
circumstances and considerations into account, I think that £400 is a reasonable 
figure.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision that I partially uphold Mr 
Hs complaint.
 
I intend to require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr H £400 in respect of the additional damage caused to his vehicle whilst in 
the possession of the salvage agent.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the costs within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr H accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the costs from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
 
Advantage didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision. The main elements of his response that I think 
are most relevant to my provisional decision were, firstly, that he went to the least expensive 
garage and that they only provided the summary invoice despite his asking for a more 
detailed, itemised invoice. Mr H also said that he rang several other garages and got verbal 
quotes. Mr H also maintained that the cost from the garage was reasonable for the work 
carried out on his vehicle, involving repair and respray of front and rear bumpers and two 
offside doors, including blending in the paintwork. Mr H also sent photographs of his repaired 
vehicle as well as further evidence of his being away at the time his vehicle was repaired 
and his consequently arranging for a friend to collect the vehicle and that Mr H paid his 
friend for the cost of repairs. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered carefully the response from Mr H. I appreciate his position and his 
unhappiness at the way that he feels he was unfairly treated by Advantage and the salvage 
agent. As I sought to explain in my provisional decision, I accept that Mr H had the repairs 
carried out  the photographs he has provided indicate thats the case  and paid for the 
repairs in the way set out and that he provided evidence of the payment.
 
I note what Mr H has told us about his obtaining [verbal] quotes from other garages. But the 
principal reason for my provisional decision was that I wasnt persuaded that the degree of 
the additional damage was consistent with the extent and cost of repairs indicated in the 
invoice. The representations from Mr H havent persuaded me that this isnt the case. 
So, for the reasons set out, above I havent changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr H £400 in respect of the additional damage caused to his vehicle whilst in the 
possession of the salvage agent.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the costs within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mr H accepts my final decision.  If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the costs from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman