DRN-2849191
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L have complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
a packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Bank of Scotland charged Mr L and Mrs L a monthly fee for the URCA and provided several 
potential benefits in return. They think it should refund them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest.  
What happened
Bank of Scotland has looked at its records for Mr L and Mrs L and told us that it sold them 
the URCA during a meeting in one if its branches during October 2008 and that they kept it 
until December 2015. I expect Bank of Scotlands records about this to be reliable, and I 
have taken this account history to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint and didnt think 
that Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to them. Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr L and Mrs Ls case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr L and Mrs L and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us 
about the complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment, but first I 
would like to clarify that although this is a joint account, some of the relevant events and 
correspondence may have only directly involved Mr L. However, for simplicity, I have 
referred to Mr L and Mrs L jointly throughout this decision. 
In 2008, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both 
situations, as well as giving Mr L and Mrs L a choice, I would have expected Bank of 
Scotland to tell them about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an 
advised sale, I would also have expected it to check their circumstances to see if they 
needed the benefits which the URCA could provide. 
Mr L and Mrs L have told us that Bank of Scotland recommended they should buy the URCA 
during the meeting, whereas bank of Scotland has said it sold the URCA to them on an 
information-only basis. Im aware that this was its usual practice in 2008 and I havent seen 
sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think it changed its procedures for Mr L and Mrs L. 
Indeed, they have also told us that it didnt check their circumstances. So, I have considered 
this case to be about a non-advised sale. 
One of the main points that Mr L and Mrs L have made is that they believe Bank of Scotland 
pressured them into buying the URCA. They have explained that they went into the branch 
on a separate matter, but a salesperson put them under duress to buy the URCA. 
Obviously,  I cant  tell exactly  what  Bank  of Scotland  said to Mr L and Mrs L during  the 
discussion.  I certainly  accept  that it may well have  spoken  positively  and encouragingly  
about  the URCA,  but Im not convinced  that it applied  pressure  or put Mr L and Mrs L 
under  duress.  At the time in question,  I understand  that they held (or had held)  a fee-
free account  with another  bank  and I havent  seen  anything  to make  me think  that Bank  
of Scotland  told them  they had to buy an URCA.  It seems  to me that they could  have  
dealt  with the separate  matter  and left without  the URCA.  I dont  think  that Bank  of 
Scotland  applied  undue  pressure  and Im satisfied  it gave  them  a choice.  
In 2008, the potential benefits of the URCA included use of a car breakdown service and 
insurance for mobile phones and for home emergencies. I think  its highly  likely  that Bank  
of Scotland  told Mr L and Mrs L about  these  benefits.  Afterall,  it was trying  to sell the 
URCA  to them  and it would  have  been  in its own interests  to tell them  what  the URCA  
offered.  Bank  of Scotland  has told us that Mr L and Mrs L went  on to register  mobile  
phones  for insurance,  call out the car breakdown  service  and make  a claim  on the home  
emergency.  So, it seems  to me they may have  found  these  benefits  attractive.  And there  
is no dispute  that Bank  of Scotland  told them  about  the monthly  fees.
Mr L and Mrs L have  made  two further  points  about  the car breakdown  cover.  Theyve  
told us that they already  had such  cover  through  other  vehicle  insurance,  so they had no 
need  for this benefit  from the URCA  as it duplicated  a service  they already  had. And 
they have  also mentioned  that when  they called  out the service  they thought  they were  
using  the other  insurance.  
With respect  to the first point,  as this was an information-only  sale,  Bank  of Scotland  did 
not have  check  into duplicated  cover.  And with respect  to the second,  as Bank  of 
Scotland  has records  of the call outs,  Im satisfied  that Mr L and Mrs L used  its service.  
However,  even  if they had used  an alternative  service,  as Bank  of Scotland  had told 
them  what  the URCA  offered,  it would  not follow  that it had mis-sold  them  the URCA.  
Mr L and Mrs L have  also told us that Bank  of Scotland  said that buying  an URCA  would  
improve  their credit  score,  which  they now believe  was wrong.  
Before  considering  what  discussions  may have  happened  over the credit  score,  I would  
like to confirm  for Mr L and Mrs L that that their current  belief  is correct.  While  managing  
a bank  account  well (for example,  by staying  in credit  or within  agreed  overdraft  limits)  
may improve  a credit  score,  the type of account  a customer  holds  is not usually  a factor.  
However,  I doubt  that Bank  of Scotland  misled  them  about  this.  I understand  that at 
times  Mr L and Mrs L have  used  an overdraft  quite  extensively.  One of the potential  
benefits  of the URCA  in 2008  was that depending  on how customers  used  a bank  
account,  overdrafts  could  be cheaper  with an URCA  than with a fee-free  account.  I think  
its highly  likely  that Bank  of Scotland  told Mr L and Mrs L about  this and may well also 
have  mentioned  that keeping  within  an overdraft  limit could  improve  a credit  score,  but 
as this would  have  been  true, it wouldnt  have  been  misleading.  
So, in summary,  I dont  think  that Bank  of Scotland  pressured  Mr L and Mrs L into 
buying  the URCA.  I think  it gave  them  a choice.  I dont  think  it misled  them  that buying  
the URCA  would  improve  their credit  score  and Im satisfied  that it told them  about  the URCAs  benefits  and cost.  I dont  think  that Bank  of Scotland  mis-sold  the URCA  to Mr L 
and Mrs L. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give them any money 
back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman