DRN-4178942
Complaint
Mrs W says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly recorded a default on her credit file 
as a result of the overdraft on a current account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ws concerns. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that an inhibit marker, preventing any further spending, 
was placed on the account Mrs W was a joint party in April 2022. It also appears clear that 
there was an existing outstanding balance to be repaid on the account at this stage. 
Ive seen copies of a number of correctly addressed letters informing Mrs W about the 
outstanding balance on the overdraft and that there was a need to make payment. And Ive 
seen no obvious reason why Mrs W wouldnt have received at least some of them  
especially as the vast majority of correctly addressed post is successfully delivered. 
Equally, while I appreciate that Mrs W says that she believed that the account was closed 
and she couldnt make any payments, the inhibit marker prevented further spending on the 
account it didnt prevent payments being made into it. I accept that Mrs W might have 
assumed the inhibit marker might have meant that the account was closed and that this 
prevented payments being made. But I dont think that this was reasonable for Mrs W to 
reach this conclusion given the sheer number of letters sent requesting payment.  
Furthermore, by September 2022, it was clear that Mrs W hadnt engaged with this debt for a 
number of months. I can appreciate why Mrs W is unhappy about the information HSBC has 
reported to credit reference agencies and I understand why she is concerned at this. But I 
dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for HSBC to continue 
ignoring this outstanding balance indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected HSBC 
to have taken corrective action in the way that it did. 
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt  for example it stops interest and further charges being added. 
And asking HSBC to remove the default here and record that Mrs W paid this debt when it 
was due when she didnt, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mrs Ws interests 
or that of any future lender.
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mrs Ws overdraft when it did. As this is 
the case and Mrs W didnt respond to HSBCs final demand (which was sent in October 
2022 and also correctly addressed using Mrs Ws address details) or take any steps to repay 
what was owed, Im satisfied that HSBC was entitled to register the default it did on her 
credit file. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs W. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman