DRN-3140840
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his previous motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it 
failed to correctly update the industry database for insurance history when it settled his claim 
made in 2017.
What happened
Mr M made a claim in 2017. It wasnt his fault. This service previously issued a view about 
how AXA had handled the issue of determining liability in the first few months of that claim. 
In November 2018 we noted that the third-party had accepted liability and agreed to raise a 
settlement cheque in April 2018. We said if AXA had been more proactive that matter would 
have been resolved sooner. 
In 2020 Mr M wrote to AXA as he noted that the industry database was showing that the 
2017 claim had been recorded as being a fault claim against him. Mr M had noted that his 
premiums had been more expensive in the years since the claim and he was disappointed 
that AXA had recorded incorrect information about him. AXA accepted the record was wrong 
and had likely been caused because it had closed and reopened his claim on more than one 
occasion. It said it had rectified the record, but didnt show proof of this to Mr M. It offered 
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mr M complained to us.
Our investigator contacted AXA and in March 2021 it said the industry database was still 
showing this was a fault claim against Mr M and it confirmed it would have that amended. 
Our investigator felt that, along with AXAs offer of £250 compensation that was fair and 
reasonable redress in the circumstances. She said if Mr M had concerns about the 
premiums hed been charged in the last few years, he should ask the relevant insurers to 
review the price of his cover in light of the amended record. Mr M felt that wasnt fair and 
was unlikely  if he did do that, to actually achieve anything for him.
Mr Ms complaint came to me for consideration. I was minded to uphold it. But I explained 
that any award I might make would depend upon Mr M providing this service with evidence 
of his reported loss. I explained:
From what my colleague found in Mr Ms previous complaint it seems that AXA should have 
done things better in respect of determining liability, and if it had the liability issue, and 
therefore the claim, would have resolved sooner. Once it did AXA should have correctly 
closed Mr Ms claim as one of non-fault and that would have generated a correct record on 
the industry database which would then have been considered by Mr Ms future insurers.  
But AXA didnt do that, so I need to decide what it must do to put that right.
Further taking account, for a minute, of my colleagues findings, whilst it was felt that the 
claim should have resolved sooner than it did, I note no specific period for resolution was put 
forwards. Only that once the third-party had been made aware of the loss, they accepted 
liability within around one month. And I note that it was felt that AXA had particularly failed 
Mr M in its handling of matters between December 2017 and January 2018. I further note 
that Mr Ms policy was due to renew in February 2018. So I think it isnt clear that if AXA had 
done things better, the matter would most likely have been resolved in time for the 2018 
renewal to be based on Mr Ms record including a closed, non-fault claim. A renewal based 
on a claim history which includes a recent, unresolved claim would always have had a 
negative impact on the premium Mr M was charged. So Im satisfied that any increase Mr M 
had to pay in 2018 was a natural result of the claim and not due to any failure by AXA. 
However, I dont think the same can necessarily, reasonably be said for Mr Ms renewals in 
2019, 2020 and 2021. Its clear to me that, between sometime in 2018 and March 2021, AXA 
allowed incorrect information to exist on Mr Ms insurance record. I think its reasonable to 
say that where Mr M has had a financial loss and/or been caused distress and 
inconvenience because of that, it should provide recompense. But, in respect of the financial 
loss, it isnt fair to place the onus on Mr M to attempt to remediate that by approaching his 
insurers. And Im mindful that even if he did do that its unlikely that his insurers would be 
either able or willing to cooperate in that respect. 
AXA has offered £250 to compensate Mr M for his distress and inconvenience. I think that is 
fair and reasonable. Particularly as Mr M didnt know there was a problem until 2020. So he 
wasnt suffering upset through all of those years. Therefore, Im not minded to say AXA 
should pay more to Mr M in this respect.
But AXA hasnt made any offer to Mr M in respect of addressing his likely financial loss 
caused by the effect of the record on the premiums he was charged. However, neither has 
Mr M evidenced what costs hes incurred, or even given any indication of the same  for 
example he hasnt shown that he was offered one price which was then increased by the 
insurer. So whilst Im prepared to accept that in theory its likely that Mr Ms premiums have 
been affected  because a fault claim can impact the premium charged  I cant be certain 
that is the case in practice. So I cant fairly make an award, even a provisional one, until 
I receive more evidence from Mr M. If Mr M provides me with evidence, Ill consider what, if 
any, extra costs I think AXA is liable for and let both parties know before I make a final 
decision. But if I dont receive this in response to this provisional decision, Ill likely issue a 
final decision which, whilst being an uphold, wont require AXA to do anything more.
Mr M said he was disappointed with my findings. He provided some detail to us in respect of 
his policies in previous years. And said he had just found out that the record of his claim on 
the industry database had still not been amended  it was still showing as a fault claim 
against him. I considered that evidence and issued some further findings to both parties. 
I said:
Mr M has now sent me some detail about the cost of his insurance in the years since the 
2017 claim. So Ive considered it and need to let the parties know my view on it before I 
make a final decision.
The detail Mr M has sent doesnt, in my view, show that the premiums he was charged were 
based on there being an open/fault claim on his record. Just because it was there doesnt 
mean that the insurer, when agreeing Mr Ms cover for the coming year, would automatically 
have known about it, factoring the risk it presented into the premium charged. And, 
importantly, regardless for the basis of the policy, from the detail Mr M has sent, I can see 
that the premiums hes been charged, across all his policies, in 2019  2021, has generally 
decreased. I appreciate that Mr M feels hes been disadvantaged by AXAs unfair action of 
not correctly updating his claim record in a timely manner. But, from the evidence Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded hes been charged more in premiums because of this failure. So Im not 
minded to make AXA do anything more in this respect.
I add though that whilst AXA told us in March 2021 that it was updating the industry 
database to ensure it showed a closed non-fault claim for Mr M, Mr M tells us that hasnt 
happened. Mr M says the industry database is still showing a fault claim against him. Id like AXA, in response to this email, to show me proof that it has sought to amend the database  
and what the database is now showing. And if Mr M wants to show me what hes seen, Ill 
take a look at that too.
The parties can now have a fortnight to consider my findings and respond to them. If either 
needs longer, if they have good reason for doing so, Ill consider extending the response 
deadline.
But whilst the parties were considering these findings from me, I made some enquiries with 
the industry database. The result of that enquiry caused me to issue the following findings: 
I write further to my updated findings shared by our investigator on 11 November 2021. 
Whilst waiting for the parties to show me what theyve done and or seen in respect of the 
CUE database, we made an enquiry to see what is currently recorded on there in respect of 
Mr Ms claim. Having got the results, I was disappointed to see that despite assuring this 
service that it had made updates to have the database amended, AXA has clearly not done 
that. The database still shows NCD: Disallowed. So the claim is still logged as a fault 
against Mr M. I understand why Mr M is frustrated with AXA and I appreciate he feels he can 
no longer trust it. I think AXA should compensate Mr M for the frustration and inconvenience 
its caused him by paying him £150. It should also write a letter which Mr M can show to his 
past, current and future insurers, should any need arise due to how this claim is or was 
recorded on the database. And Im also going to require AXA to amend the database within 
28 days of the date Mr M accepts my final decision, if he does.
AXA said it accepted what Id said, including the recommendations made. Mr M said he was 
still disappointed  in short, he thought my findings were unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M is frustrated because he feels let down by AXA and he believes his premium 
has been affected as a result of its failures. Mr M thinks I should just accept that and make 
an award to him that reflects his financial loss as well as the upset and inconvenience hes 
been caused  he says hed accept a total of £1,500 including AXAs proffered £250. But 
I cant just make an award on the basis of what Mr M believes has happened. Rather Mr M 
has to evidence his loss and/or I have to be satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, a 
loss most likely occurred.
The evidence Mr M provided of his premium charges showed that, in the main, his cost of 
cover had come down in the last few years despite the fault claim recorded on the industry 
database. I can assure Mr M that I do understand how insurers price premiums, and I accept 
that, overtime, costs can come down. But, what we often see, where a fault claim is recorded 
and taken into account by an insurer, is that the price of premiums increases, regardless of 
other factors that might otherwise cause the cost to decrease. 
But the pricing of premiums is an incredibly complex process, many factors are taken into 
account and often given different weightings and importance in the overall calculation. And 
what is taken into account, the weightings which are given to each factor and the importance 
they play in the overall calculation, varies between insurers. But, in theory, it could be 
possible for the price Mr M was charged to go down even though an insurer took into 
account the fault claim. And that would mean the cost he was charged would have been 
even less if the fault claim had not been a factor. If I were to issue any award based on that theory though Id have to be satisfied, at least on 
balance, that this is what is most likely to have happened for Mr M. And Im not. I dont even 
know that the insurers concerned did factor in the fault claim. Mr M seems to think that all 
insurers assess the industry database automatically when an application for cover is 
processed. But that isnt always the case. And the policy paperwork Mr M was able to 
provide to us didnt show that the policy, and therefore the premium, had been issued on the 
basis of a fault claim existing on Mr Ms record.
Further, Mr M believed, quite understandably, that this claim was non-fault. So it stands to 
reason that this is what he likely told each insurer when applying for or renewing his cover. 
And that would be the basis on which the premium would initially be calculated. If the insurer 
had then checked and found the claim was logged as one of fault against Mr M, it would 
have likely told Mr M hed need to pay a higher premium and if that were the case Mr M 
would have been sent a letter to explain the change in price. And even a past insurer, seeing 
as were only talking about cover dating back to 2019, would have a log of this type of 
activity. I did give Mr M leave to revert back to his previous insurers, but evidence like this 
hasnt been provided. I can only base my findings on what Ive seen. And having done that 
Im not persuaded that Mr M has most likely had a loss caused by AXAs failure to correctly 
update the industry database.
But, and as I said in my interim findings, I am disappointed to learn that as recently as 
November 2021, the industry database had still not been updated. And, whilst I havent seen 
evidence of an impact on Mr Ms cost of cover, Mr M believes his current renewals have 
been affected. I can fully understand the frustration he feels that despite all this time, despite 
AXA promising this would be done and despite it knowing this service expected this to be 
done, it still remains outstanding. And whether Mr M has evidenced the impact on his 
premiums or not  he believes there is one, so he is still being caused upset by AXAs 
failure. Im satisfied that fair and reasonable compensation for AXAs failures is a total of 
£400  being the £250 it originally offered and the £150 I said in my interim findings I felt was 
reasonably due. It will need to make sure the record is now amended as well, within 28 days 
of my decision.
I also remain satisfied that AXA should write a letter for Mr M to provide to his insurers. I do 
hope Mr M has no need to use this letter. But it is important AXA provides it. That is because 
its possible that an insurer, having offered or offering Mr M cover between 2019 and now, 
might note that the industry database has a fault claim against Mr M which he has not 
declared (because the record is wrong and it should be showing as a non-fault claim). If so, 
Mr M needs to be able to evidence to that insurer that the fault claim record exists only due 
to AXAs error. Mr M can use this decision for that purpose. But a letter from AXA will be 
more focused and to the point. 
I know Mr M would like compensation to make up for his time spent dealing with his 
complaint, including providing evidence to and communicating with this service. But that isnt 
something I award compensation for. Rather, Mr M had the right to complain and he chose 
to do so. That resulted in me finding that AXA had failed him and Ive made awards against 
it. So Mr M has received a benefit for the time and effort he put in. 
 
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Pay Mr M a total of £400 compensation, if £250 has been paid already then it now only 
needs to pay the £150 outstanding.Provide a letter to Mr M, explaining that it has caused a fault claim to show on Mr Ms 
record, which was, in fact, a non-fault incident. This should be a letter which he can show 
to his past, current and future insurers, should any need arise due to how this claim is or 
was recorded on the database.
Ensure the database is amended. At least within 28 days of the date Mr M accepts my 
final decision, if he does.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman