DRN-2689087
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as D have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
Mrs W, a director or D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf. 
What happened
D hold a business interruption insurance policy with Aviva. D claimed on their policy after 
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-
19 pandemic.  
  
Aviva turned down Ds claim as it said the policy covered business interruption due to 
damage to property or premises and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage as defined in the 
policy.  
 
Mrs W was unhappy with Avivas response and brought the complaint to our service. She 
said D had expected to be covered for interruption to their business.  
  
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
the policy covered Ds claim because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property or 
premises.  
  
Mrs W didnt think this was fair as she thought the policy should provide cover. She asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on D, but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ds claim.   
 
I dont think theres cover under Ds policy for closure due to the Government response to 
the national pandemic. However, I would like to explain why parts of the policy that look like 
they might be relevant, dont provide cover.  
 
Damage 
 
The business interruption section of Ds policy provides cover for interruption or interference 
to their business resulting from: 
 
Damage to property used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The Business occurring 
during the Period of Insurance caused by any of the following Contingencies 
 
The policy defines damage as Physical loss, destruction or damage.  
 
As this term would require physical loss, destruction or damage to property used by D at 
their business premises, I dont think it provides cover for Ds claim for closure as a result of 
the Governments response to the pandemic. Im not aware that Covid-19 
caused any damage to property used by D, as defined in the policy. 
 
Extensions for prevention of access and loss of attraction 
 
The policy also has extensions to the business interruption section, which covers Damage 
 
(1) at the premises or situations or  
(2) to the property  
 
described below by any Contingency as applying to such premises, situations or property, 
which results in interruption or interference with The Business.  
 
Prevention of access and loss of attraction are listed as contingencies, and provide cover, as 
set out above, for Damage to: 
 
Property within one mile of the boundary of The Premises which physically prevents or 
restricts access to or use of The Premises.  
 
Property or premises within one mile of the boundary of The Premises, which directly results 
in a reduction in the Turnover (or Revenue, Fees, or Rentals as insured by this Section) of 
The Business.  
 
These extensions would require there to have been damage to property or premises within 
one mile of Ds premises, and for that damage to have physically prevented or restricted 
access to Ds premises or resulted in a reduction in Ds turnover. Im not aware that Covid-
19 caused damage to property, as defined in the policy, to property or premises within one 
mile of Ds premises, and therefore I dont think this extension covers their claim. 
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs W was hoping for, but for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman