DRN-1695850
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited said at the end of her 12-
month policy term, that £236.10 was still owed.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs As partner set up a car insurance policy for her. The monthly payments were 
made by direct debit from Mr As bank account.
Hastings acknowledged that some of the problems with collecting the direct debits were 
down to it. But it also said that some of the problems were down to there not being sufficient 
funds in Mr As bank account. So, it believed the outstanding balance of £236.10 that it said 
was still owed, was correct.
Hastings also acknowledged that Mr A had been put to some inconvenience by it whilst 
trying to resolve the issue. And as a result of other administrative mistakes on its part, it paid 
Mr A £175 in total for the inconvenience he had incurred.
Mr As concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. In summary, she thought Mr A 
had paid what had been requested by Hastings, but she didn't think it was reasonable of it to 
ask him to pay the balance it said was still owing. She thought there had been an 
administrative error by Hastings which resulted in incorrect amounts being debited.
After discussing the case with Hastings, it agreed to write off the outstanding balance of 
£236.10. But due to further delays caused by Hastings in resolving the issue, she thought it 
should pay Mr A another £75 in addition to the £175 it had already paid him.
Hastings didn't agree, so the case has been passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 January 2020 setting out why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Mrs As complaint. I asked for responses by 1 March 2020.  
In response, Mr A said on behalf of Mrs A that the reason he was dealing with the complaint 
was because his wife was stressed with dealing with Hastings, as they'd found out they were 
uninsured for a period of a week, which they weren't aware of. No further submissions were 
received from Hastings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs A took out the insurance policy, the payments were made by Mr A not her. And 
although there were administrative problems with the payments taken from Mr As bank 
account, these were in respect of a policy that wasnt his. The policy was solely in Mrs As 
 name, and she was responsible for making sure the payments were made.So, although Hastings dealt directly with Mr A as a result of the direct debit payments 
coming from his bank account, Mrs A was its customer not Mr A. I understand that Mr A was 
representing Mrs A.
I can only consider the impact on Mrs A as a result of whats gone on. Hastings has now 
agreed to write off the balance that it said was owed by Mr A (which Mrs A was ultimately 
responsible for). So, that aspect of the complaint has now been resolved.
So, the issue outstanding that I need to consider is the inconvenience caused as a result of 
Hastings administrative errors. But, as Mr A has been dealing with the administration of the 
account, the impact has been on him and not Mrs A.
Hastings has paid Mr A £175 for the inconvenience he has been caused. And our 
investigator suggested a further £75 to compensate Mr A for the further inconvenience he 
had been caused.
Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision that Mrs A was stressed when dealing 
with Hastings as a result of finding out that she was uninsured for a week.  I accept that 
might have been the case, but I think the £175 already paid by Hastings is enough 
compensation for the administrative errors caused by it and any inconvenience and upset 
Mrs A may have suffered. As a result, I dont think Hastings needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman