DRN-2582024
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about a mortgage they held with Santander UK Plc. Their 
complaint can be broken down into four broad areas:
Their title deeds.
The lack of correspondence when they repaid the mortgage.
The delay in receiving back the overpayment they made.
How they were treated when the mortgage term came to an end in 2017.
Any reference to Santander in this decision should be taken to mean the previous name the 
lender used where appropriate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out this mortgage in 2007 on an interest-only basis. They applied for the 
mortgage through an independent mortgage broker and appointed an independent solicitor 
(rather than using one appointed by the lender) to carry out the legal work.
In 2017 the term came to an end and Mr and Mrs D had no way of repaying it other than 
selling one of the investment properties they owned. The sale of the investment property 
went through and Mr and Mrs D repaid their Santander mortgage on 11 October 2019.
As the redemption went through at a similar time to a normal monthly mortgage payment 
being made, the mortgage account was left in credit by just under £200. That amount was 
refunded to Mr and Mrs D on 21 October 2019. Mr and Mrs D asked for their deeds back 
and complained when they were told Santander had never had them.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Any reference to Santander in 
this decision should be taken to mean the previous lender name where appropriate.
Title Deeds
For almost 80 years after the passing into law of the Law of Property Act 1925 and the 
Land Registration Act 1925, conveyancing was done on paper with processes and 
practices that were the same for decades. Property titles were registered in documents 
which were held by the owners or mortgagees. But since 2003 scanning and subsequent 
destruction (known as dematerialisation) of documents became the required practice, as a 
result of the Land Registration Act 2002, which came into force on 13 October 2003.  
Rule 203(6), Land Registration Rules 2003, makes provision for the destruction of original 
documents; an electronic image is deemed a sufficient copy and is used to produce official 
copies. This means that paper documents are obsolete and are no longer evidence of title. 
This mortgage was taken out in 2007 and by that time lenders, including Santander, didnt 
take the original deeds when they granted a mortgage over a property. Any solicitor that 
dealt with conveyancing work would be aware of that and had the deeds been sent to 
Santander by Mr and Mrs Ds appointed solicitor  and there is no evidence they were  they 
would have been immediately returned. I cant hold Santander liable for not having the 
deeds and not being able to tell Mr and Mrs D where they are.
Mr and Mrs Ds evidence has changed about what happened in 2007. Throughout the whole 
time this complaint has been running  which has been since October 2019 - Mr and Mrs D 
said in 2007 Mrs D delivered a letter to a branch requesting the deeds be returned at the end 
of the mortgage, without reply. They said had they received a reply telling them Santander 
didnt have the deeds then they could have looked into where they were at the time:
Shortly after the start of the mortgage in October 2007 a letter had been taken into 
Branch by [Mrs D] requesting that they be returned at the end of the mortgage.
Had we been notified, as Santander said we should have been, we could have 
traced our Title Deeds
We feel that had Santander informed us that they did not hold our Title Deeds we 
could have been able to locate them at the time
Obviously had we had this information at the time of my letter requesting the Title 
Deeds be returned to us on redemption of the mortgage I may have had more luck in 
tracing them.
I also advised Santander that we would require the Title Deeds to our property 
returned to us once the mortgage had been paid in full by letter to the Branch for 
forwarding to Head Office. Why then was we not informed that Santander did not 
have them at the time?
It was only recently, after our investigator rejected the complaint, that Mr and Mrs D changed 
their submissions to:
Santander confirmed shortly after taking out the mortgage with them in September 
2007 that they had our Title Deeds
We generally find in cases like this that the first recollections are the more reliable, and the 
first recollections were also repeated quite a few times by Mr and Mrs D. I would have 
thought if Mr and Mrs D had been told by Santander in 2007 that it held the deeds then this 
would have been the focus of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, not a letter they say Mrs D dropped into a branch that Santander has no trace of. For that reason, Im not persuaded  on 
balance  that Santander told Mr and Mrs D in 2007 that it held their deeds.
Mr and Mrs D have said a letter was dropped into a branch requesting the deeds be returned 
at the end of the term. It was obviously something that was important to them if they went to 
the effort of writing and delivering a letter about it, so it is unfortunate they then didnt follow 
things up with Santander when they didnt receive a reply. Santander has no record of 
receiving that letter and I cant hold it liable for not replying to a letter it has no record of 
receiving.
For the reasons given I cant uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Lack of correspondence
Mr and Mrs D have said they didnt receive a redemption statement or a closure letter, 
confirming their mortgage had been repaid.
A redemption statement wasnt posted to Mr and Mrs D as the notes indicate Mr D phoned 
Santander on the afternoon of 9 October 2019 to request a redemption figure for just two 
days later. There would have been no time for a redemption statement to be generated, 
printed and posted so that it would reach Mr and Mrs D in time for them to make that 
payment, so the figure was just given over the phone.
Santander doesnt automatically send a letter to its customers when their mortgages are 
repaid. Were not the regulator and its not our role to comment on how businesses choose 
to do business generally. Theres no regulatory requirement for Santander to send a letter to 
Mr and Mrs D to confirm the mortgage had been repaid.
Santander did nothing wrong in not sending the redemption statement to Mr and Mrs D in 
the post or in not automatically sending them a letter confirming the mortgage was repaid. 
For that reason, I cant uphold this part of their complaint.
The overpayment
Mr D requested a redemption figure on 9 October for a redemption date of 11 October. 
Redemption figures cant take into account transactions that havent yet happened, so the 
figure given didnt take into account that Mr and Mrs D went on to make their normal monthly 
payment on 10 October. The reason redemption statements dont take that into account is 
that there is a risk the payment either wont be made, or if it is a direct debit that the amount 
will be recalled, and that would then leave a shortfall upon redemption. Instead lenders 
generally assume no further transactions will occur and then they refund any overpayments 
after redemption; thats completely normal.
Santander told Mr D that it would take up to 13 working days for the closure to be processed 
and the refund be made, and in fact the overpayment was refunded six working days after 
redemption on 21 October. The reason the refund cant be made immediately is that the 
lender has to ensure the payment has cleared, and not been recalled, before the funds can 
be returned.
Having considered everything, Santander did nothing wrong here so I cant uphold this part 
of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The mortgage term endMr and Mrs D have been very open with us about how this has affected them, and I thank 
them for their honesty.
Things cant have been easy for them, worrying about how theyd repay this mortgage 
without selling any of their investment properties or their home. In the end they had to sell 
one of the investment properties, and I can see this took over two years from when their 
mortgage term had ended with Santander.
Mr and Mrs D have said that Mr D had to phone Santander every month, sometimes every 
fortnight (they later changed their recollections to the calls being fortnightly, sometimes 
weekly, but that isnt right), during that two-year period. Whilst I understand how difficult that 
was for Mr D, I must also keep in mind that Santander was owed a significant sum of money 
that hadnt been repaid on time. It had the right to want to keep in touch with Mr and Mrs D 
to find out what was happening.
Whilst Im sure it wouldnt have been the case here, we see it often where lenders dont keep 
in touch on such a regular basis and then things are drawn out for an even longer period, 
potentially leading to litigation with the extra costs that brings, and thereafter the possibility of 
repossession. By keeping in touch so regularly Santander could know what was happening 
and adapt accordingly.
I understand Mr and Mrs D found it intrusive, but I cant hold Santander liable for that as it 
had the right to want to be kept informed and having considered the contact notes from the 
time I dont think the level of contact Santander wanted was excessive. It didnt have to liaise 
with Mr and Mrs Ds solicitor or their estate agent as Mr and Mrs D offered instead as 
Mr and Mrs D were its customers. 
Mr and Mrs D have said that Mr D was told the house could be repossessed, but that was 
correct. Santander had a duty to remind Mr and Mrs D of the consequences of the mortgage 
debt being overdue, and that was that the property could be repossessed. In fact, Santander 
could have taken matters to court to seek possession in 2017 on the grounds the mortgage 
contract had been breached the moment Mr and Mrs D didnt repay the debt at the end of 
the term. It didnt have to allow Mr and Mrs D a further two years and I cant blame it for 
wanting to keep in regular contact to ensure things were kept moving in that time.
Having considered everything, I cant uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint however 
much they may want me to as Santander didnt act inappropriately in wanting to keep in 
regular contact with Mr and Mrs D in the two-year period their mortgage debt was overdue.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.  
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman