DRN-1661837
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc initially gave him an incorrect currency conversion 
rate for an international transfer, which was subsequently corrected to a less favourable rate.
What happened
On 15 July 2019 Mr R telephone HSBC to enquire about the rate it would use to transfer 
around $25000 abroad. During that call Mr R was initially advised if he wanted the recipient 
of the funds to receive $25000 hed have to transfer the equivalent of £19345. Mr R said he 
checked this rate with the call handler three times and they confirmed if was correct.  
Because that call handler couldnt process the international transfer for Mr R he was 
transferred to a second call handler. This second call handler corrected the information Mr R 
had been provided with by the previous call handler, which they said was wrong. They told 
him the exact rate it would use when processing his payment and said hed have to transfer 
the equivalent of £20502.42. Mr R queried why the rate had changed so dramatically. But he 
agreed to the rate and his payment was sent. 
Mr R wasnt happy that it had cost him more to make the payment transfer. So he asked it to 
honour the initial currency conversion rate he was quoted. But HSBC declined to do so 
because it said this rate was incorrect. So, Mr R would never have been able to take 
advantage of it. It did, however, agree to waive its usual £9 transfer fee. And it offered to 
compensate him £50 for the poor service hed received in being given incorrect information. 
Mr R wasnt happy with HSBCs response to his complaint and referred it to our service. Our 
investigator empathised with Mr R, but thought HSBC had given him enough information 
about the exchange rate it would use before he agreed to make his transfer. Overall, they 
thought HSBC had dealt with his complaint fairly. They also thought the compensation it had 
already offered was fair  so it didnt need to do anything more. But Mr R disagreed and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr R is frustrated by the exchange rate HSBC applied to 
his transfer, Im not persuaded to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC is unable to provide call recordings from 15 July 2019 that our service is able to listen 
to. So this evidence cant be considered. However, I dont think this has impeded our 
investigators ability to assess Mr Rs complaint or my ability to give a final decision here.
I say this because HSBC has accepted it gave Mr R incorrect information about the 
exchange rate it would use. And it hasnt disputed what hes said about being reassured 
about the incorrect exchange rate having clarified it three times with the first call handler. So, 
theres no dispute that HSBC made an error in informing Mr R of the exchange rate it would use during his conversation with the first call handler. Theres also no disagreement that 
HSBC corrected that information before Mr R chose to proceed with his payment transfer.
I can appreciate how frustrating that was to Mr R to have been given incorrect information by 
HSBC. It ought to have been able to inform him correctly about the exchange rate it would 
use. Im pleased to see its recognised its shortcomings here by offering to provide feedback 
to the call handler which made the error. I think thats a sensible approach for HSBC to take 
here. And Im satisfied that this will reduce the risk of this happening in the future.
As our investigator explained we arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, 
Id have asked HSBC to make an appropriate award of compensation to reflect the poor 
service Mr R received during his conversation with the first call handler.
Its clear that Mr R wants HSBC to make up the difference between the rate he was quoted 
initially and the actual rate that it applied. But Im not persuaded that wouldnt be fair here. I 
say this because, before Mr R instructed HSBC to make his money transfer, he was given 
sufficient and clear information by the second call handler about what exchange rate HSBC 
would apply to his transfer. He chose to proceed with his money transfer having been that 
given that information. It follows that Im satisfied he made an informed choice to proceed 
with his transfer on the basis of the corrected rate being applied. 
Mr R says he suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. But he had the choice 
of using HSBC to proceed with his money transfer or using the services of another bank. Mr 
R has told our service that this transaction was time sensitive. But I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for any time constraints that may have applied to this transaction. I say this 
because HSBC corrected the information Mr R had been given about the exchange rate 
during the same telephone call. So, it didnt cause a delay here. And I also think, because 
HSBC corrected its error so quickly, Mr R had opportunity to transfer his funds using an 
alternative provider that might have been able to give him a better rate. He chose to use 
HSBC, however.
HSBC chose to waive its usual £9 international transfer fee here. I think this demonstrates it 
was acting fairly because Mr R chose to proceed even after HSBC had corrected the 
information it had previously given him about the exchange rate. It isnt something Id have 
told HSBC to do as part of my decision.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, HSBC acknowledged that Mr R received 
poor service from the first call handler he spoke with. And it offered him £50 compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset he was caused. While Mr R may disagree with me, Im 
satisfied this is a reasonable amount. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios  so I 
wont be ordering HSBC to increase that amount. 
I havent seen any evidence confirming that this sum has been paid to Mr R. So, in the event 
that it hasnt been paid yet, Mr R should contact HSBC directly should he wish to accept this 
amount. The same applies if HSBC hasnt already credited Mr R with the £9 international 
transfer fee it agreed to waive.
I know that Mr R will be disappointed by this decision. And, while I appreciate the reasons 
why he brought his complaint to our service, Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably in dealing with his complaint. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything more. This 
now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Rs dispute with HSBC informally, can 
do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr R any further with this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman