DRN-2538547
The complaint
Mrs S complained because TSB Bank plc blocked her account, and she couldnt make an 
investment she wanted to. She says she lost money as a result. Mrs S was also unhappy 
with the way TSB dealt with the issue.
What happened
On 5 April 2020, Mrs S wanted to transfer a large sum of money out of her TSB account, to 
buy shares. When she was trying to do the transfer, she got a message account under 
review and her account was blocked.
Mrs S tried to ring TSB, but she waited a long time and then got cut off. She didnt get 
through to anyone until her third attempt, when she said that someone at TSB should have 
contacted her about the message. She said she could then have provided extra security 
information and the transaction could have gone ahead. TSB asked Mrs S to provide 
photographic identification. But Mrs S said a family member had covid symptoms, so she 
couldnt go to a branch. So TSB asked Mrs S to email a copy of her passport, which she did.
Mrs S rang TSB again over the next few days, and was told the passport hadnt been clear. 
TSB asked her to try again. Mrs S thought TSB should have contacted her to tell her this. 
She sent another copy, but said the stress was making her unwell so she had to rest. She 
thought her account would be unlocked in the meantime. But it wasnt, and after another 
long phone call, Mrs S went into a branch on 17 April with her identification. She said she 
had a long wait in the branch, but TSB then unblocked her account.
In its reply to Mrs Ss complaint, TSB said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that it appreciated 
security checks arent always convenient. It pointed out that there was a balance between 
unrestricted access to an account, and ensuring the account is protected. It said that 
payments were sometimes referred or blocked for additional security checks. TSB said 
couldnt provide details of the security checks on Mrs Ss account, but the block had been in 
line with procedures.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She set out what had happened and 
said TSB hadnt helped sort out her account. It had been left to her to chase them, spending 
hours waiting for calls to be connected. She said that as she didnt have any source of 
income, she bought and sold shares to receive income. TSBs actions meant she had lost 
her only source of income, and she wanted compensation for this, and for the time and cost 
of calls, and stress.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. He appreciated that Mrs S was frustrated, 
but said he couldnt conclude the issues were a result of TSB error.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied. She said TSB could easily have phoned her for more security 
information, and then unlocked her account. She said TSB had shown no remorse. And she 
felt the investigator hadnt taken into account her stress and family circumstances with a 
member of her family having mild symptoms of covid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs S was frustrated at not being able to carry out her transaction. And 
having to make multiple calls to get through to TSB would have been frustrating. I note that 
Mrs S says that a member of her family was showing mild covid symptoms, and Im sure that 
would have been worrying.
But my job is to determine whether or not TSB made any errors in the way it dealt with this 
issue.
Banks have a responsibility to protect their customers accounts. Sometimes this does 
involve blocking an account, in order to make security checks. I realise its frustrating when 
this happens, particularly because banks cant give customers the details about why a 
security issue has been triggered, or what the problem is. But its essential that banks have 
the power to conduct these checks, for the security of their customers money. This ability to 
block a customers accounts was set out in the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss account, to 
which she signed up when she opened the account.
Mrs S has said she believes TSB should have phoned her to ask her more security 
questions, which she said would have meant she could have carried on with her transaction. 
But in conducting its checks, TSB had decided it had to have photographic identification, not 
just security questions. It was entitled to come to that decision. 
I consider TSB showed flexibility when it suggested that Mrs S should email a copy of her 
passport, when she said her family situation meant she couldnt go to a branch. But when 
the emailed copy wasnt clear, I find that it was fair for TSB to say that it had to see the 
photographic identification clearly.
Mrs S is also unhappy about the difficulty she had in getting through to TSB. I can 
understand that, and we all find such situations stressful and difficult. But Ive borne in mind 
that this happened in April 2020, when the covid pandemic was causing multiple problems. 
At that time, many banks and other organisations werent able to provide their normal phone 
services, because of staff being off work, and the increased volume of calls. So I dont find 
that TSB was at fault for the difficulties which Mrs S had in trying to contact the bank.
So I find that TSB didnt do anything wrong, and I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman