DRN-3997341
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Miss O had a current account with Santander. In July 2020, she opened a savings account 
too. In August 2020, Miss Os savings account received around £900 from a victim of fraud, 
which was then transferred to her current account and into a cryptocurrency account of hers.
Miss O told Santander the funds were from a friend of a friend for cryptocurrency, shed 
made the onward payments herself, and no one else had access to her account. She said 
shed provide proof she was entitled to the money, but later said the friend had blocked her.
Santander closed Miss Os accounts and registered a marker against her at CIFAS. They 
contacted the cryptocurrency platform to try to recover the funds, but the platform said the 
funds had since been spent.
In 2022, Miss O came to our service. She explained that what shed told Santander was a lie 
her boyfriend had told her to tell. He was helping to support her, and he regularly sent her 
money. She was having some financial difficulties, and hed asked for control of her account 
so he could help her clear her overdraft. She gave him her login details and let him use her 
account for one day. She didnt know what he was doing, nor that he was committing fraud. 
She trusted him and thought it was OK to give him access. Shed since split up with him. 
She didnt realise the seriousness of the incident until she discovered the CIFAS marker. 
Miss O confirmed the cryptocurrency account was hers, but shed lost her details and 
couldnt access that account anymore. So shed lost the money and couldnt evidence what 
shed done with it. She also couldnt provide evidence of any contact with the ex-partner 
about this.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss O 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss O and Santander a provisional decision on 14 February 2023, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Santander were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Miss O had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that shed misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and 
which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I currently think Santander did have sufficient grounds to 
register this marker. Ill explain why.
Santander received an official fraud report showing that the money Miss O received was 
taken from the victim of fraud. And its confirmed that she kept the money in her own 
cryptocurrency account, aside from some which was used to clear her overdraft.
This is important, as Im not persuaded itd make sense for a fraudster to organise a highly 
complex crime, harm the victim, and risk significant prison time, just to give it away to help 
someone with their money troubles. Not least since as soon as the fraud was inevitably 
found out, the recipients account would get blocked anyway and theyd be in trouble. So the 
fraudster would be taking large and unnecessary risks, with no real benefit to themselves, 
and with little overall benefit to the person theyre supposed to be helping.
On the other hand, its a common practice for fraudsters to use money mules. Thats where 
they send someone the proceeds of fraud, and use their account to forward the money on so 
it cant be recovered  often involving the use of cryptocurrency. Im afraid that possibility fits 
very well with what happened here.
From what Miss Os told us, she gave her login details and access to her tablet device to her 
ex-partner. But the onward payments also used one-time passcodes that were sent to 
Miss Os mobile, at the same number she still uses now. She would have needed to give 
these passcodes to her partner to help him move the fraudulent funds. While this is a more 
minor point, this suggests Miss O was at least partially involved in sending on the funds, as 
opposed to being unaware of how her account was being used. 
More importantly, its Miss O who profited from the fraud. The fraudulent funds were used to 
clear her overdraft, then sent on to her own cryptocurrency account. Shes confirmed this 
was her cryptocurrency account, and I can see she was making payments to it with her own 
money before this. Indeed, it looks like Miss O was the only person who profited from the 
fraud  the money was paid either to her overdraft debt or her cryptocurrency account. And it 
doesnt seem likely or plausible that Miss O was an unwitting participant in the fraud if she 
was the sole  or at least the main  beneficiary of it.
We asked for evidence of what the boyfriend had discussed with Miss O. But Miss O said 
she had none at all  shed only spoken to her ex in person or on the phone. Im afraid 
I dont find that to be plausible. Miss O told us they were in a relationship and he was 
supporting her, so Id expect them to have had a very substantial message history. And 
since this ex apparently caused Miss O to be put on the fraud database and have her 
accounts closed, Id expect her to have at least some messages with him about it. Miss O 
did forward some messages with an unregistered number, where she complained her ex had 
got her accounts closed. But Im afraid this doesnt show that she was unwitting or what the 
ex told her. Really, we have nothing which substantiates what Miss O says the ex told her  
even though if they were in a relationship there would have been a long message history.
Miss O says she also cant show us what she did with the fraudulent funds next, as she left 
them in the cryptocurrency account and then lost access. But Im afraid I dont find this to be 
plausible either. The platform has a robust account recovery process even if one forgets 
ones details. And even if Miss O did still have problems getting access, Id think she would 
have contacted the company urgently to sort that out, rather than leaving hundreds of 
pounds in there for well over two years while she was in financial difficulties.Indeed, while Miss O says she left the money in her cryptocurrency account, the platform 
found they couldnt recover the fraudulent funds as no funds remained. So contrary to what 
Miss O has told us, it seems she did in fact spend or otherwise move on the money. Im 
afraid this substantially undermines her latest testimony.
There are other points where Miss Os testimony has been inconsistent, too. For example, 
she said her boyfriend regularly sent her payments. But looking at her historic statements, 
I cant see any instances of him sending her money, let alone regularly. And Miss O has 
already admitted that the things she repeatedly told Santander were in fact fabricated. Im 
afraid that it does make it very difficult for me to rely on her testimony.
It's also worth noting that Miss O opened her savings account some time before the fraud, 
but never used it for anything else. Essentially, she opened it, never paid any savings into it, 
then it received and passed on fraudulent funds. This would be unusual for an account 
opened for genuine use  but it does fit very well with how being a money mule works.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss O 
couldve knowingly and willingly helped to receive and pass on the fraudulent funds.
In summary, Miss O received fraudulent funds and her account was used to pass them on. 
The onward payments needed passcodes Miss O was personally sent. Miss O was the main 
person who benefitted from the fraud, and it wouldnt make sense for someone else to do 
this without her consent just to help her out. Miss O has accepted her previous testimony 
was false. Her latest testimony is also inconsistent or implausible at points, and shes been 
unable to evidence what shes told us even when she should be able to. Her actions dont fit 
well with her being an unwitting participant, but do fit well with the actions of a money mule. 
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I think its fair that Santander closed Miss Os 
accounts and registered a marker at CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and 
I know its a difficult message for Miss O to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im currently unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
28 February 2023. Santander didnt add anything further. Miss O got back to us, and Ill 
talk through her submissions below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered everything that Miss O sent us in response to the provisional 
decision  though Ill focus on what I found to be the key points.Miss O said that she really had lost access to her cryptocurrency account. She provided 
some emails. In one email, from 9 August 2020, Miss O asked the platform about accessing 
a particular wallet. But even if she was having some trouble back then, I can see she 
regained access to the account after that, as its the account she received the fraudulent 
funds into on 20 August 2020. And the other email she provided also confirms she was using 
the account on 20 August 2020, as she made a withdrawal then. The third email does not 
appear to be relevant. Miss O sent an extract from a transaction history, but this only shows 
what happened before the fraud, and doesnt show what happened during the period of the 
fraud or afterwards. 
Miss O also sent us a video showing a temporary text and voice note from her ex-boyfriend. 
But Im afraid they dont substantiate what shes told us. Essentially, the ex just said Miss O 
knew what she was doing, he couldnt give her what she was asking for, and she should just 
forget about it. Its not clear what this is referring to  Im not sure it even relates to this 
incident. And even if I assume it did, it does not show or reasonably imply that Miss O was 
an unwitting participant in the fraud.
Miss O explained that she only spoke to her ex on Snapchat or in person, so she couldnt 
provide any other messages. I do understand that people often use apps which auto-delete 
messages. But people normally talk using other messaging systems as well  for example, 
Miss O also confirmed she uses WhatsApp. Im afraid I simply dont find it credible that 
Miss O would have absolutely no message history with someone who she was in a 
relationship with and who was supporting her, and no emails, texts, social media messages 
and so on discussing what was a very important incident for her. I should also point out that 
Miss O was previously clear that she only spoke to her ex over phone calls or in person  
not by Snapchat. So her testimony has been inconsistent again.
Miss O explained that her testimony has been inconsistent because she couldnt remember 
things. But while I can certainly sympathise with that to some degree, I dont think this level 
of inconsistency can be explained by memory fading over time. For example, as I mentioned 
before, Miss O told us her ex-boyfriend regularly sent her payments. But he doesnt seem to 
have sent her any payments at all.
Miss O explained she opened the savings account to be smarter with money. But the fact 
remains that she never used it for anything like that. She opened it, never paid any savings 
into it, then it was used to receive and pass on fraudulent funds. Thats not usual for a 
genuine account, but fits well with the possibility that she was involved in the fraud.
Miss O accepted shed been negligent, but reiterated she was an unwitting participant in the 
fraud. And again, I have thought very carefully about that possibility. But Im afraid it remains 
the case that:
Miss O was the main  and seemingly only  person who benefitted from the fraud
Its not plausible that someone else would carry all this out just to benefit Miss O 
without her knowledge or consent
Miss O appears to have been at least partly involved in sending on the fraudulent 
funds
The account used to receive the fraudulent funds was not used for anything else, and 
was opened in advance by Miss O
Miss Os testimony has been inconsistent and implausible
Miss O has not provided any substantial evidence to back up her testimony, even 
when such evidence should be available to her The circumstances of the incident do not fit well with Miss Os testimony, but do fit 
well with the possibility that she was either willingly taking part in the fraud itself or 
willingly acting as a money mule
Ive not found any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss O 
couldve knowingly and willingly helped to receive and pass on the fraudulent funds
So taking everything into account, Ive still found that it was fair Santander registered this 
CIFAS marker. I know this will come as a serious disappointment for Miss O, though it is not 
my intention to disappoint her. But based on the evidence and circumstances of the case, 
Im unable to reasonably reach any other decision.
Miss O made some comments about the other people involved in the fraud, such as her ex. 
I understand she feels they should face consequences more than her, and I do appreciate 
her point of view. I should explain that in this decision, I can only consider the dispute 
between Miss O and Santander, about whether they should have registered this marker 
against her or not. I cant consider what should or shouldnt happen to anyone else. It may 
well be the case that other people should have CIFAS markers or face other repercussions. 
But in this decision, I can only consider Miss Os marker in particular. And Ive found that 
marker to be fair.
Lastly, Miss O explained that the marker was having a large impact on her. And Im sorry to 
hear about the difficulties shes facing. But since Ive found that Santander registered the 
marker fairly, I cant reasonably tell them to remove it. The marker lasts for six years, so it 
wont be forever, and after that period it will go away. If Miss O does not take part in any 
other incidents like this again, then she shouldnt face any such markers again.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman