DRN-4193551
The complaint
Ms H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) is refusing to refund her the 
amount she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Ms H was called from a number she recognised to be that of another bank she 
also had an account with. Ms H had previously received a text message where she was 
asked to pay £1,99 for postage of a covid test, so the caller had Ms Hs personal details.
The scammer (X) told Ms H that her computer and phone were vulnerable as she had 
clicked on a link. On Xs instruction Ms H downloaded a screen sharing application and 
logged into each of the accounts she held at different banks. Then behind a blank screen X 
made payments from Ms Hs accounts that she was not aware of.
One of the payments X made was from another account held in Ms Hs name at another 
bank to her Tesco account. Ms H was then asked to move these funds and other funds to a 
fake safe account that Ms H believed had been set up in her name but in fact the payment 
went to X.
Ms H has been able to recover other payments that were sent as part of the scam although 
this payment of £5,500 has not yet been recovered.
Our Investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. They said 
that Tesco and the bank the payment was sent from should share responsibility for the loss 
and both refund Ms H 50%.
Tesco disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Ms H has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Ms H and Tesco sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Tesco 
should refund any of the money Ms H lost due to the scam.
Should Tesco have reasonably prevented the payment Ms H made?
Two other payments were made from Ms Hs Tesco account as part of this scam before the 
£5,500 payment was made by Ms H as shown below:
Date Payment Method Amount
8 July 2022 Transfer £10,000.00
8 July 2022 Transfer £7,538.54
I understand Tesco has refunded the above two payments but holds Ms Hs other bank 
responsible for the payment of £5,500.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Tesco should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
and questioned Ms H about the payments she was making. And if it had questioned Ms H 
would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
The first payment made from Ms Hs account of £10,000 was out of character for her 
account and the second payment was made the same day for another large amount. I think 
these payments should have triggered Tescos fraud prevention systems prompting it to step 
in and question the payments that were being made. 
Had Tesco stepped in when it should have and asked Ms H appropriate questions about the 
payments, I think its likely Tesco would have been able to uncover the scam and prevented 
the payments from being made. I say this because this is a common scam, I would have 
expected Tesco to have experience with at the time. Ms H was not coached on what to say 
to Tesco had she been asked about the payments and there appears to be no reason for her 
to have given Tesco dishonest answers. 
However, I also acknowledge that the payment was originally made from Ms Hs account at 
another bank, and this was an unauthorised payment, so it is equally responsible for Ms Hs 
loss. So, for this reason I only require Tesco to refund 50% of the loss Ms H has suffered as 
a result of the £5,500 payment being made from her account. 
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000).
Ive thought about whether Ms H should bear some responsibility for this loss by way of 
contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). However, in this 
case, I dont think this would be fair. On balance, I dont think Ms H was careless in this 
case, but simply tricked by resourceful and clever scammers who managed to successfully 
impersonate her bank.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should refund Ms H 50% of the £5,500 payment (£2,750) that 
has been disputed. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also add 8% simple interest to this 
payment from the date of the payment to the date of the settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC should put things right by 
doing what Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman