DRN-2736844
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice by St. James's Place 
Wealth Management Plc, referred to as SJP. 
What happened
In early 2019, a complaint about the investment was upheld by SJP. In short, it conceded 
that investing in a single fund (the UK High Income Trust Fund) didnt represent 
diversification. In due course, SJP paid Mrs B £3,400 compensation (including £250 for 
distress and inconvenience caused) in full and final settlement, which Mrs B accepted. 
SJP also recommended that Mrs B switch funds and diversify her investment and offered to 
help her, through its practice partner, a third-party business. SJP says that it also re-
highlighted the risks associated with her investment and offered to arrange a meeting to 
discuss her requirements. 
In March 2020, Mrs B, without consulting SJP, surrendered the investment and then 
complained. I note she received £10,441. She says that since December 2019, the value of 
her investment fell by £3,000 which shes unhappy about.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The risks were made reasonably clear to Mrs B, initially when the investment was 
taken out in 2011, and subsequently after her (2019) complaint was upheld on the 
basis that the recommendation lacked diversification. Mrs B therefore knew (or ought 
reasonably to have known) the risks of continuing to hold her investment in a single 
fund. 
She was given the opportunity to sell her investment or diversify her holdings  to 
lower the risk, but she didnt get in touch or respond to the business. 
In March 2020, Mrs B chose to surrender the investment, she did so of her own 
volition and without advice, therefore SJP cant be responsible for any loss suffered 
by her. 
In 2019, Mrs B accepted SJPs offer to uphold her (previous) complaint and pay 
compensation, however despite SJP making clear that the investment lacked 
diversification, she made no changes to her investment moving forward.  
SJPs partner business confirmed that it attempted to arrange meetings (since mid-
2019) to discuss Mrs Bs requirements, but she didnt take up the offer or respond. 
An email was sent May 2021  confirming that a telephone meeting had been set up 
for 23 May 2021, which Mrs B didnt attend.   
Mrs B cant continue to hold the investment when it was doing well  knowing it 
lacked diversification  and then complain to SJP when it wasnt doing well and 
expect it to cover any losses. Its not how the process worked. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs B chose (without financial advice) to surrender her 
investment in March 2020, when the markets were weak  due to the global 
pandemic  but that doesnt mean that SJP is at fault. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
The 2019 complaint has nothing to do with the current complaint. 
She doesnt understand the £3,000 loss or who benefitted from it. 
She wants to see evidence of SJP trying to set up meetings with her.  
She needed SJP to support her with her investments and explain the risk reduction, 
but it didnt. 
It was for SJP to reduce her risk rating, without having to consult her.  
 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
SJP provided the following information:
oThe email dated 21 May 2019 which confirmed the appointment arranged for 
23 May 2019. 
oCopies of previous letters  dated 11 August 2017 and 6 November 2018, 
which show that SJP attempted to conduct a financial review with Mrs B.   
SJP said that it was due to try and arrange an annual review in 2020, but Mrs B had 
already surrendered her investment. 
Mrs B was given the option to sell her holdings or diversify, but she did neither. 
SJP gave Mrs B all the support and guidance she needed, but it wasnt permitted to 
take measures into its own hands without her authorisation. In other words, it couldnt 
sell or diversify the funds on her behalf without obtaining her authority first.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what she says, Im satisfied that Mrs B 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the general risks involved in 
investing in the stockmarket.
On balance, I think its more likely than not she was provided with policy documentation that 
made reasonably clear that her investment can go up as well as down, and that she might 
not get back as much as she put in. By 2019, when a previous complaint about her 
investment was upheld  based on lack of diversification  I think Mrs B knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that she was continuing to hold an investment that wasnt 
suitable for her at the time. 
Im mindful that Mrs B thinks SJP shouldve implemented changes to her investment without 
consulting her, but despite what she says I dont think it was able to do so without her 
permission, and probably not without reviewing her requirements. Therefore, despite SJP 
upholding the previous complaint, and paying redress, the investment still belonged to Mrs B 
and only she had authority to make changes. 
In other words, SJP couldnt act on her behalf  even if it wanted to  without her authority. 
So, I dont think it has done anything wrong by not implementing changes automatically after upholding the initial complaint on the basis that the fund lacked diversification. It was Mrs Bs 
choice to continue with the investment as it was. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that SJP took reasonable steps to 
contact Mrs B to try and arrange a review, even though the onus was on her to seek advice 
if she was still unhappy with the investment. 
Instead Mrs B decided to surrender the investment without any advice or consultation from 
SJP. Whilst I appreciate that she was entitled to do that, it doesnt mean SJPs at fault or 
responsible for any losses. 
Whilst Mrs B is free to continue to hold the investment when its doing well  knowing it 
lacked diversification  she cant then complain when its not doing well and expect SJP to 
pay for any losses. I agree with the investigator that this isnt how this process works. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the onus was on Mrs B to respond and arrange 
a meeting, and not just for SJP to keep pursuing her indefinitely. There was nothing stopping 
Mrs B, even up until the point before surrender, from contacting SJP (or its partner firm) to 
express her concerns and seek advice about her investment.  
In conclusion, I dont think SJP is responsible for the actions of Mrs B, and the loss she 
suffered by continuing to hold the investment after her 2019 complaint was upheld before 
surrendering it  during the height of a global pandemic  and without any financial advice or 
assistance from SJP.   
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this complaint and give her what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman