DRN-1844166
The complaint
A is a limited company and complains about the increased premium BUPA Insurance 
Limited asked it to pay in February 2019 in relation to its group, private medical insurance 
policy. Mr G is pursuing the complaint on behalf of the directors of A.
What happened
A had a group medical insurance policy with BUPA for many years. In recent years, the 
members of the group are Mr G and Mrs G.
In February 2019, BUPA sent A a renewal quote showing an annual premium of over 
£19,500. The annual premium for the previous two policy years were around £8,800 each 
year. A didnt renew the policy with BUPA.
Mr G says that the main issue is that the premiums have increased progressively to recover 
claims paid by BUPA, which makes the insurance pointless. He says that the principle of 
insurance is that policy holders pay premiums which are invested to provide a fund to 
indemnify policy holders who need to make claims, thereby spreading the risk, but he says 
thats not whats happened here. Mr G says that if A had been told about the methodology 
BUPA uses and the potential level of increases, it would have paid the medical costs 
directly. Mr G says that BUPA mis-sold the policy to A.
Mr G says that he obtained a quote from another insurer for similar cover for a premium of 
just under £5,000, but which doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. He wants BUPA to 
provide A with cover at a premium in line with the quote received from another insurer, or for 
BUPA to underwrite pre-existing conditions. 
In response to As complaint, BUPA says that it takes into consideration the groups claims, 
healthcare costs, and the demographic factors of the groups members. It says that its not 
increasing the premium to recoup claim costs and that recent premiums wouldnt cover what 
its paid out in recent years. BUPA said that theres a large increase at renewal because A 
had previously had a two-year fixed price which had come to an end. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that BUPA had 
treated A unfairly. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that BUPA had progressively increased the 
premiums in recent years to cover the claims that had been made against the policy. Mr G 
said that if hed known the effect claims would have on the premium, he wouldnt have 
proceeded. He feels that the policy was mis-sold, as BUPA should have been clear about 
the extent claims increase the future premium. 
Mr G asked whether the fund for the cover was supported by subscriptions from A, rather 
than spread over a much larger BUPA fund. If so, A shouldnt have been sold the policy as, 
due to the size of the company, the risk isnt adequately spread. 
Mr G asked that an ombudsman considers the complaint, so it was passed to me. 
A had previously made a complaint about increase in premium and the information BUPA 
made available. An ombudsman issued a final decision in that case in 2016. In this decision, 
Im dealing with As complaint about the February 2019 renewal premium. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct BUPA generally about how it conducts its 
business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has treated A fairly. I think it has 
and Ill explain why. 
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of 
factors. BUPA has said that those factors include the groups claims, healthcare 
costs and the demographic factors of the groups members. Its not down to me to tell 
BUPA what factors it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go 
about its assessment. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a 
risk and the extent of that risk. Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgement 
and not something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere.
BUPA has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain 
how it calculated the renewal quote it sent to A in 2019. Im afraid I cant share that 
information with A, but Ive considered it carefully. Im satisfied the premium A was 
quoted in 2019 was calculated correctly and that all of BUPAs customers in As 
position will have been charged a similar premium. So, I dont think that BUPA has 
treated A unfairly. 
Mr G asks whether the fund for As cover was supported only by As subscriptions. 
Ive seen no evidence that was the case. Whilst BUPA takes into account recent 
claims by the group, it doesnt calculate the premium on the basis of recouping the 
cost of previous claims. As BUPA said, the recent premiums wouldnt cover the 
recent claims. 
One of the reasons for the increase in premium in 2019 was that As premiums for 
2017 and 2018 were fixed for two years. The 2019 quote was also fixed for two years 
and would have been slightly lower if it hadnt been fixed. 
I dont think that BUPA is obliged to give A information about exactly how it calculates 
premiums: thats commercially sensitive. In the 2019 renewal letter it explained that 
the age of the groups members and the number of claims affect the premium. I think 
that BUPA gave A enough information about how it works out the premium.  
I can quite understand why the 2019 renewal quote wasnt acceptable to A. As Mr G 
is  aware, it was open to A to decline the renewal quote and search the market for 
another provider. 
Considering everything, I dont think that BUPA treated A unfairly in calculating the 
2019 renewal premium or in the information it provided. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman