DRN-4382297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
avoided their home insurance policy and declined their claim.
Red Sands is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agents. As Red Sands has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Red Sands includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr and Mrs K made a claim under their home insurance policy with Red 
Sands after discovering an escape of water had caused significant damage to their property.
In March 2023, Mrs K raised a complaint with Red Sands about the delay in progressing her 
claim. Red Sands hadnt made a decision about whether or not it would accept liability for 
the claim.
Red Sands didnt provide a response to Mrs K within the necessary timescale, so she 
referred the matter to our service. 
In June 2023, Red Sands told Mrs K it was treating her policy as null and void because it 
was not satisfied with the information shed provided to support her use and occupancy of 
the property as her joint primary residence. It responded to Mrs Ks complaint shortly 
afterwards, confirming its position.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Red Sands 
had demonstrated that Mr and Mrs K gave false information. She concluded that it wasnt 
reasonable for it to avoid the policy and decline the claim. She recommended Red Sands 
reinstate the policy and reassess the claim. She also recommended it pay Mr and Mrs K 
£350 for distress and inconvenience and remove information relating to the policy being 
avoided or cancelled from the Claims Underwriting Exchange database.
Red Sands disagreed with our investigators outcome. It made a number of legal arguments 
and quoted case law it considered to be relevant. It felt that our investigator had disregarded 
the fraud report it had provided and referred to an article about the use of technology in 
insurance fraud prevention. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Red Sands says the declinature of Mr and Mrs Ks claim was due to policy avoidance. Its 
told us that its decision was exclusively based on an objective assessment from a 
professional screening firm who interviewed Mrs K. It says based on the screening firms 
report, it determined that the claim, as submitted, demonstrated fraudulent behaviour.
Its important to explain that it isnt for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs K acted 
fraudulently. Instead, Ive needed to consider if Red Sands decision to avoid their policy and 
decline their claim was reasonable. Its for Red Sands to show that Mr and Mrs K acted 
dishonestly, and did so with the view to gaining something they werent otherwise entitled to 
under the policy, if it wants to decline their claim on the basis of fraud.
The report from the loss adjuster who visited Mr and Mrs Ks property a couple of weeks 
after they made their claim says:
we found the house generally in need of a complete refurbishment and there were no 
immediate signs that anyone had been living in the house with the exception of a wireless 
internet router.
It also says that Mr and Mrs K advised that one of them had been staying over in the house, 
sleeping on the front room floor on a mattress, while the other lived with their children at their 
parents home. It says they gave the reason for this as being concerned about squatters 
and the implications of insuring an unoccupied property. 
The loss adjuster noted: we would not consider this to be the Insured permanently residing 
at the risk address. He also noted that hed obtained utility bills showing electricity usage 
from 1 October to 30 November was very low and there had been no gas usage in two 
months.
Red Sands later appointed another loss adjuster to deal with Mr and Mrs Ks claim. He 
visited the property in late March. I can see he was also concerned that Mr and Mrs K had 
given inaccurate information about the property being their main home when they took out 
the policy. 
The loss adjuster suggested that a pipe froze and burst during a period of sub-zero 
temperature in December, and the water escaped after a rise in temperature allowed a thaw.
Red Sands instructed a screening firm to investigate its concerns that Mr and Mrs K hadnt 
given accurate information about their living circumstances.
Mrs K was asked to take part in an online test which required her to answer a number of 
questions. According to the screening firms report, Mrs K was given an overall evaluation of 
high risk to the questions:
Did you purposely provide any incorrect information in the insurance claim you 
submitted?
Did you purposely falsify your insurance claim in any way?
Following this, Mrs K was interviewed by the screening firm over the phone.
The report says:
We advised that our role during this call was to find the cause that produced the above 
alerts without judgement.We explained that the technology is objective and measures the same aspects of speech in 
all people. Every human has these same aspects, just like a heartbeat. The technology 
serves to fast-track claims that present no risk, and to advise insurers to those that should 
receive further follow up.
It seems from the above, that the evaluation of Mrs Ks answers in the online test as high 
risk wasnt enough to conclude she was being dishonest. Further follow up was required. 
The screening firm then interviewed Mrs K over the phone and recommended Mr and       
Mrs Ks claim be declined. The report says:
It is our recommendation the claim is declined due to the residence by way of behaviours 
not being used as the main residence. 
Having carefully considered the information in the report, Im not persuaded that this shows 
Mrs K was being dishonest. I appreciate there were concerns about things such as a lack of 
furniture and clothing in the property, low energy consumption and her parents address 
being used for correspondence. However, Mrs K has given explanations for all of these 
things and her answers have been consistent throughout the claim. 
Mrs K says her husband would sleep at the property most nights and she would sometimes 
join him. Their energy usage was low because they mainly only went to the property to 
sleep. They didnt use the central heating because they didnt want to heat the whole house. 
They slept on a mattress on the floor in a room downstairs, with an oil heater. 
The report says:
At the time of the incident with the policy address being less than 3 miles away. Mr K had 
not returned for 17 days. We would reasonably think he would have had to return to the main 
residence for clothing and personal belongings. He has not had to do so although they only 
expected to be away for 1 night.
However, it also says that both Mr and Mrs K eat and shower at her parents address. So, I 
think its likely that clothing and personal effects were kept at Mrs Ks parents home. 
Mrs K also explained that correspondence was still being sent to her parents address 
because they hadnt got around to updating their contact details. This wasnt a priority as 
they have access and always pass by there.
The first loss adjuster who visited noted the presence of a wireless internet router, and Mrs K 
has provided broadband bills to show this was there prior to the escape of water event. Ive 
also seen evidence to show that Mr Ks bank statements were being sent to the property 
address for several months prior to the insured incident. So, while some of the evidence 
arguably supports Red Sands concerns about occupancy, theres also some evidence to 
support Mr and Mrs Ks testimony that they considered the property to be their joint main 
residence.
Ultimately, the screening firms report, which appears to be the primary evidence Red Sands 
is relying on, doesnt seem to conclude that Mrs K was lying. It says Mr and Mrs Ks 
behaviour does not support the property being their main residence.
I appreciate Red Sands might not agree that the insured property should be considered     
Mr and Mrs Ks main residence, given what theyve said about their living arrangements. But 
Im not satisfied, from what Ive seen, that Red Sands has done enough to show that Mrs K 
acted fraudulently. Red Sands has suggested that the Financial Ombudsman Service should independently 
question Mr K as to whether he occupied the insured property in quite the manner his wife 
suggests. To be clear, it isnt our services role to carry out a fraud investigation. Its for Red 
Sands to show that a consumer has committed fraud if it wants to rely on this to decline their 
claim. 
Red Sands has suggested Mrs K is trying to claim over £250,000 she isnt entitled to from 
the alleged fraudulent act. However, I can see from Red Sands notes that it had considered 
whether it should settle the claim proportionately on the basis that the property was 
unoccupied. An internal email says: Ive requoted risk as unoccupied, and the premium 
difference is circa 2%. We wouldnt look to adjust settlement given minor difference. This 
suggests that even if it could be shown that Mrs K was lying about the propertys occupancy, 
which Im not persuaded that Red Sands has sufficiently evidenced, she wasnt claiming for 
more than she was entitled to under the policy.
Having carefully considered all of the information provided by both parties, Im not 
persuaded that Red Sands has shown that Mr and Mrs Ks claim was fraudulent. I dont think 
its done enough to show that Mr and Mrs K lied or that the alleged lie was made to gain 
something they wouldnt have otherwise been entitled to under the policy. It follows that I 
dont think it was fair to avoid their policy and decline their claim on the basis that their claim 
was fraudulent.
In its letter advising Mr and Mrs K of its decision to decline their claim, Red Sands also 
referred to a term in its policy which says:
It is also only valid if You ensure the building is properly maintained. This means the roof 
should be watertight, gutters clear and working and the walls straight with any brick or 
blockwork fully pointed. This also means You will need to pay for any wear and tear and 
specifically anything that causes damage over a period greater than 7 days. You should take 
care to prevent or minimise any loss, damage or injury.
Red Sands said the policy could not provide liability due to Mr and Mrs Ks failure to address 
the onset and development of such a degree of mould at the insured address as to 
jeopardise the level of maintenance it requires for any property it insures.
I appreciate Red Sands doesnt believe that Mr and Mrs K did enough to mitigate their loss. 
However, their claim relates to the insured peril of water escaping from pipes, tanks or 
appliances, including finding and accessing the leak causing the damage. The proximate 
cause of the damage Mr and Mrs K are claiming for appears to be the burst pipe, which was 
a sudden and unexpected event. Red Sands letter refers to the growth of mould in the 
property, which seems to have happened after the escape of water incident. It hasnt 
suggested that the pipe burst due to a lack of maintenance. So, I dont think it would be fair 
for Red Sands to decline Mr and Mrs Ks claim based on this exclusion.
Mr and Mrs K also complained about the delay in Red Sands progression of their claim. 
They were worried about further damage and said it was impacting their mental health. I 
think Red Sands decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ks claim and the length of time it took to do 
so has caused them unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So, I think it would be fair for 
Red Sands to pay Mr and Mrs K the £350 our investigator recommended.
Putting things right
Red Sands should:Reinstate the policy and reassess the claim, in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs K £350 for distress and inconvenience.
Remove any information reported to the Claims Underwriting Exchange relating to 
the policy being avoided or cancelled.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and direct Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman