DRN-1951694
The complaint
Mr W complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his claim following a 
motorbike breakdown in Italy. Mr W was touring Italy with his wife and shortly after he left his 
hotel, the motorbike caught fire while he was driving it.
IPA, who provided Mr Ws breakdown cover, arranged for the bike to be taken to a local 
recovery yard, where Mr W says he was left for over nine hours in the heat with no access to 
food, drink or any facilities. He is unhappy that the motorbike was taken to a yard rather than 
a local official manufacturers garage. And he is unhappy that IPA has refused to pay his out-
of-pocket costs of returning home early, which were around £1,000.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Policies like this arent intended to cover every eventuality, so I have considered what 
the policy says it covered. The policy covers breakdowns, which it defines as being 
where the insured vehicle cannot be driven due to an electrical or mechanical 
fault.
 
Having considered this, I think IPA acted fairly in declining this claim. I say this 
because the motorbike couldnt be driven as a result of a fire, which isnt an electrical 
or mechanical fault.
 
Mr W says that the fire must have happened as a result of an electrical or mechanical 
fault, but Ive seen no evidence of that. And even if that were the case, the electrical 
or mechanical fault wouldnt have been the issue that caused the motorbike to be 
unable to be driven as Mr W told IPA he was driving it when it caught alight  from 
the evidence Ive seen, it was specifically the fire that prevented Mr W being able to 
drive the motorbike.
 
Mr W has said that fire is not specifically excluded but these policies dont exclude 
every eventuality. And I dont think the circumstances of this incident are covered 
under the terms that the policy does cover.
 
Mr W has raised concerns that the motorbike wasnt taken to an official 
manufacturers garage, which he says was closer than the yard. It isnt clear why this 
didnt happen at the time or whether that would have been possible. But IPA says it later arranged for the motorbike to be moved to that garage. And in any event, the 
motorbike was unable to be repaired, so I don't think IPA's agent's decision to take 
the motorbike to a yard had any impact on the claim or the outcome for the 
motorbike, although I accept that Mr W may have been more comfortable at the 
garage.
 
IPA provided Mr W with three nights accommodation as a gesture of goodwill and 
£100 compensation for the delay and his having been stuck at the recovery yard, 
which I consider to be reasonable given that the incident wasnt covered under the 
policy.
 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ws frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman