DRN-3696087
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society placed on block on his account and with 
the service he received from Nationwide when trying to have the block removed.
What happened
Nationwides fraud prevention system placed a block on Mr Fs account. This meant Mr F 
couldnt make some purchases he wanted to, and he wasnt happy with the service he 
received from Nationwide when trying to have the block removed. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Fs complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr F by 
blocking the account, or in how theyd tried to contact Mr F about the block. Mr F wasnt 
satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Mr F feels very strongly about this complaint, and I dont 
dispute that Mr F has been inconvenienced by what happened here. However, it can 
unfortunately be the case that the use of automated fraud prevention systems, such as was 
the case here, can sometimes lead to a necessary degree of unavoidable inconvenience for 
an account holder. And while the timing of such inconvenience means that it can often be 
unfortunate, its not necessarily the case that it should also be thought of as being unfair.
Businesses such as Nationwide have an obligation to protect their account holders money, 
and fraud prevention systems are commonly used by these businesses to meet this 
obligation. Additionally, its incumbent on businesses to employ these systems with a degree 
of vigilance  to err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there 
will be instances where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud 
prevention systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance.
Mr F said that he made the transaction that was flagged by Nationwides system in the early 
hours of the morning, and that he then went to bed. Mr F has also said that when he awoke, 
he had one message asking him to contact Nationwide received sometime after 7 am.
This corresponds, to a degree, with the information provided to this service by Nationwide, 
which shows that a transaction was flagged for further review at 5:20 am, and that following 
that further review a call was made to Mr F by Nationwides fraud team at 7:22 am, which 
resulted in a message been left on Mr Fs phone. However, Nationwides contact notes also 
show that further attempts were made to call Mr F at 9:17 and 11:40 am, and that the block 
on Mr Fs account was removed when Mr F later called Nationwide at 3:48 pm.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Nationwide did make reasonable attempts at regular 
intervals to contact Mr F about the flagged transaction following their review of the 
transaction after it was flagged by their automated fraud prevention system.
Nationwides actions here seem fair to me and are in line with what Id expect Nationwide to 
have done to try to enable the block on Mr Fs account to be be removed as quickly as 
possible. And while I can appreciate that Mr F may have been asleep when Nationwide were 
trying to contact him throughout that morning, given that hed gone to bed following making 
the transaction around 5:20 am, I feel that this was unfortunate, rather than it being unfair.
Mr F has said that Nationwide didnt unblock his account quickly following his contacting 
them to verify the transaction, and that he continues to have trouble making transactions to 
this day. However, Nationwide have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that they 
did remove the block on Mr Fs account at the time that he contacted them, and theres no 
evidence of any further declined attempted transactions on Mr Fs account from that point. 
Additionally, Mr F has explained that the continuing issues he has all relate to one specific 
merchant. This suggests to me that its an issue with that merchants payment system that 
Mr F is experiencing, and this is because if there was a continuing issue with Nationwide 
then Mr F would encounter that issue with all merchants, and not just one.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Nationwides fraud prevention system to 
have flagged the transaction as it did, and which led to Mr Fs account being blocked. And 
Im also satisfied that Nationwide did attempt to contact Mr F to enable him to unblock the 
account repeatedly throughout that morning, but that unfortunately Mr F wasnt able to 
respond to Nationwides contact attempts.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly 
towards Mr F as he contends here. Instead, I feel that Mr F has unfortunately experienced a 
degree of inconvenience that can be necessary because of the use of automated fraud 
prevention systems. And while I acknowledge that Mr F was inconvenienced by what took 
place here, and that he wasnt able to make some transactions that he wanted to, I dont feel 
that Nationwide should reasonably be instructed to compensate Mr F for this, given that Im 
satisfied that Nationwide didnt act in an unfair manner. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting here, but it follows from all the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I 
hope that Mr F will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman