DRN-3771742
The complaint
Mr L complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product and the credit facility used to pay 
for it. The credit facility was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades 
as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. 
Mr L is represented by a claims management business, which Ill call F. Where I refer to his 
submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr L had been a member of Club Infiniti, a timeshare and holiday club business, since 2010. 
In September 2011 he says that he attended a presentation as he wanted to look into the 
possibility of buying an interest in an apartment at one of the clubs resorts. He says he was 
told that, to be eligible to purchase, he would need to buy 110,000 Club Infiniti Points, which 
he did  at a cost of £11,000. To finance the purchase, he took out a loan with BPF. 
Over subsequent years, Mr L bought further points using finance from other providers. He 
was also gifted some points by a friend. 
In February 2018 Mr L complained to BPF. He said that he been misled about what he was 
buying and that he had not received the benefits he had been promised. He said that, 
because BPF had financed the purchase of the Club Infiniti points, it was equally liable with 
the seller. He also said that the actions of the seller meant that the loan agreement created 
an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.    
BPF responded to say, in summary, that it was too late for Mr L to bring a claim that he was 
misled in September 2011. It said too that there was no reason to think that the loan created 
an unfair relationship. 
Mr L referred the matter to this service, but our investigators assessment was broadly in line 
with that of BPF.  Mr L did not accept that assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is not disputed that the loan from BPF financed the purchase of the Club Infiniti points in 
September 2011. It does not appear to be in dispute either that the loan was provided to Mr 
L under pre-existing arrangements between the seller, Leisure Dimensions Limited, and 
BPF.  
Where a claim is made under section 75, a lender can seek to defend it in the same way as 
a supplier. I have therefore considered what the position might be if Mrs S were to bring a 
claim against Leisure Dimensions. 
Misrepresentation
Mr L says that he was misled about what he was buying in September 2011. He says he 
was misled on later occasions too, but subsequent sales did not involve BPF, so I make no 
comment on them. 
Mr L has not really expanded on what he says he was told, and he has provided only very 
limited evidence and information  largely comprising compliance statements which he 
signed. But his claim is the timeshare product was misrepresented to him.  
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr L into the timeshare 
contract were made on or before 12 September 2011. Mr L did not however raise any 
complaint with BPF until February 2018, more than six years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside 
the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was. 
Mr L has said too that the club did not provide what it had agreed to provide. On the face of 
it, that might give rise to a claim for breach of contract. The time limit for bringing a claim for 
breach of contract is six years from the date of the breach. Mr L has not however provided 
any further information about any breach, or any supporting evidence. I do not believe 
therefore that I can fairly conclude that he has any such claim or that a court would make a 
finding in his favour, were he to bring an action against the seller.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In deciding whether to make an order, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement; in this case, that could include the agreement for the 
sale of the timeshare product.As I have indicated, there is very little evidence in this case to support what Mr L has said 
about events in and after September 2011. He has not referred to any particular provision of 
the loan agreement or of the sale agreement which might make the former unfair. His 
statements about what happened at the point of sale and  subsequently are lacking in detail 
and are largely unsupported.   
I have no power to make an order under section 140B, and it is not for me to say whether a 
court would make an order if invited to do so. In the circumstances, however, I think that 
BPFs response to this part of the claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything further to resolve Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman