DRN-2978983
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about his home emergency insurance policy sold to him by Esure 
Services Limited.
What happened
Mr M held a home insurance policy with esure, which included optional home emergency 
cover, since 2018. The home emergency insurance cover is provided by another separate 
underwriter.
In April 2021, esure sent Mr M a renewal invitation. Mr M discussed the renewal price and 
some policy details with esure during a few telephone conversations, which took place over 
the following week or so. Mr M subsequently went ahead with the renewal of the policy. 
However, he is unhappy as he has since found out that the home emergency section of 
cover now includes a £25 excess to be paid in the event of any claim. He says he was not 
told of this change to the home emergency policy terms during any of those telephone 
conversations and says he was informed during a call on 28 April 2021 that all terms of his 
cover were the same as the previous years. Mr M wants the excess removed from the policy 
terms. 
esure said that the renewal invitation it sent to Mr M set out that a £25 excess would be 
applied per claim and details all the changes to cover from the policy renewal date; and that 
any change became part of the terms and conditions of the new annual contract when he 
renewed the policy. esure also says that during the call on 28 April 2021, Mr M was asked to 
confirm that all his details were the same and if the optional cover still met his needs, and he 
confirmed it did. It says Mr M was not told the cover was the same as the previous years. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill esure offered Mr M £25 compensation as he was 
unhappy with the change in terms.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she thought esure had done what it needed to in order to inform Mr M of the 
introduction of the excess. 
Mr M doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
He says the offer of compensation means esure knows it acted wrongly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Esure doesnt provide the home emergency insurance, so the decision to add this excess 
was not made by esure (and it has no power to remove this from the policy either). It did 
however sell the policy to Mr M. Those selling insurance policies, including at renewal, are 
required to provide the consumer with information about the policy that is clear, fair and not 
misleading so that they are in a position to make an informed decision about whether or not 
to buy it. That doesnt necessarily mean explaining every detail and aspect of cover, but it 
would mean making any significant or unusual restrictions to the cover sufficiently clear. And 
at renewal that might mean drawing attention to any significant changes. This can be done in 
writing or verbally.
There was no excess previously, so while the excess is relatively low at £25, it would 
amount to a significant change that Mr M would need to have been made aware of.  The 
renewal documents sent to Mr M included a renewal update the first page of which says: 
We will make these changes to your cover from your policy renewal date
Changes to policy excesses
We have revised the way we apply our policy excesses in the event of a claim. Please refer 
to the enclosed documentation and policy schedule for full details that will apply from the 
renewal date. 
Please also note, if you have Home Emergency cover; We have introduced an excess of 
£25 for each claim made under this cover.
I consider this to be sufficiently clear and was enough to notify Mr M of the introduction of the 
excess. 
Mr M contacted esure a couple of days after receiving the renewal documents to discuss the 
policy, so Ive also considered the calls that took place. 
In the first call, esures representative discussed with Mr M trying to reduce the premium. 
The representative advised Mr M to make sure he read the renewal documents and details 
of the cover being offered. There were further calls on 27 and 28 April 2021 and Mr M took 
the policy out in the last call. During these calls it was mainly the buildings and contents 
sections of cover that were discussed and Mr M confirmed he had read the policy 
documents and there was no change in relation to the requirements for the main household 
cover. Mr M then asked if he still had the optional home emergency and legal cover. The 
representative confirmed he did and asked Mr M if they still met his needs. Mr M confirmed 
they did and the policy was renewed with the changes in place. 
I am not persuaded that Mr M was misled during these calls into thinking the terms of the 
home emergency cover had not changed. Esure didnt mention the changes to the home 
emergency excess in these calls, and I agree with the investigator that it wasnt obliged to do 
so. This change had been clearly set out in the renewal documentation and I do not think it 
was so significant or unusual that it needed to be specifically drawn to his attention verbally 
as well as in writing.  Mr M has said the renewal documents had a different price than he 
eventually paid (as he obtained a reduction when he discussed it over the phone with esure). 
However, this doesnt change the fact that he was informed of the terms of the cover in 
those documents.
In addition, even if I thought it had not been made sufficiently clear that there was going to 
be an excess to pay, or if Mr M had been told the terms of the home emergency cover was 
the same as in previous years, I am not convinced it would have made any difference to     
Mr Ms decision to take out the home insurance or the additional home emergency cover. I 
say this because most, if not all, such policies have an excess and this one is relatively low, 
so it is unlikely hed have got another policy without the excess. I also note that esure offered 
to cancel the home emergency cover and provide Mr M with a full refund, which he declined. 
Overall, I think it likely Mr M would still have taken the cover anyway and so even if esure 
should have done more (which I dont think it did for the reasons given above) I dont think Mr M would be in any different position now. Given this, I think the offer of £25 compensation 
was reasonable and I dont think any additional payment or other action is required. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman