DRN-3212639
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund several transactions that he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr B has explained that on a night out, his Santander debit card and the Subscriber Identity 
Module (SIM) from his phone were stolen. He says that an unknown third party took his 
wallet and removed the card before returning it to his pocket and then took his phone and 
removed the SIM card before returning it. 
Mr B said he kept the Personal Identification Number (PIN) for his Santander card in the 
Notes section of the phone and the person who stole his items must have obtained the PIN 
from there. A series of transactions using the card and PIN were then made without Mr B 
realising as hed returned home from the night out and was asleep. Some of those 
transactions used Mr Bs overdraft. The next day he noticed his phone had a message 
saying there was no SIM card and he went online to check his account and cancelled his 
card once he realised his money was gone. 
Mr B then called Santander who looked into the matter and said theyd sent several texts 
during the period Mr B said his phone had been stolen and because theyd received a 
positive response, the transactions were completed. Mr B denied it was him who carried this 
out. Santander continued to investigate and called Mr B a few weeks after the disputed 
transactions, he told the call handler that someone had asked to borrow his card after he left 
a club early in the morning and he believes thats when his SIM was taken and the PIN 
copied from his Notes. He also believed that person took his wallet and removed the card 
before returning the wallet to him. In two earlier calls to Santander, this possibility hadnt 
been mentioned. Mr B later denied saying this.
Santander couldnt understand how this had happened and they couldnt establish a point of 
compromise for the card and PIN. Santander declined to refund Mr B and he made a 
complaint. Santander again looked into how theyd handled the matter but didnt change 
their position. 
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review 
where it was looked into by one of our investigators. She spoke at length with Mr B and he 
said he thought his debit card and SIM were taken from his jacket in a club and denied 
telling Santander that hed loaned it to someone, although he said hed blocked some of the 
memories from that evening. Mr B said his phone was protected by a PIN despite telling 
Santander it wasnt in an earlier conversation with them. Our investigator thought there were 
several inconsistencies with Mr Bs version of the events. She thought it was reasonable for 
Santander to hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint which has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Santander can hold Mr B liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Santander have supplied evidence that shows the genuine card and PIN were used to make 
the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Santander and Mr B agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the card and PIN together, Santander agree to 
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another 
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the 
genuine card and the correct PIN, so Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed 
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Santander to hold Mr B, for example if the card was used without his permission.
Mr B has described being on a night out with friends and remembers using his card just after 
midnight in a bar. He explained that someone took his debit card from his wallet and then 
removed the SIM card from his phone before returning it to his pocket without him noticing it. 
He first told Santander that his PIN was kept on the SIM card which is how the transactions 
were able to take place. The transactions were in the same city that Mr B was in and then 
later that morning another series of transactions took place in another city.
Santander pointed out to Mr B that the SIM wouldnt contain the PIN, that if it was recorded, 
it would be within the phone. Santander conducted their investigation and called Mr B a few 
weeks later when he changed his story to say that he remembered someone asking to 
borrow his phone after he left a club which he now believes was when his phones SIM and 
debit card were taken and the Notes part of his phone opened to reveal the PIN.
Mr B told Santander that his phone wasnt protected by any PIN, but later told our 
investigator that it was. Once Mr B started discussing what happened with our service, he 
denied telling Santander that someone had asked to borrow his phone, although he said 
hed blocked out some of the events from his memory. Mr B said that he thought he lost his 
items from his jacket when he was in a club with his friends.
Mr Bs version of events have been inconsistent throughout his complaint. I can understand 
that some details would change, particularly when hed been in a club with friends, although 
he did confirm he hadnt had much to drink. Mr B has given two conflicting stories of what 
happened that night, one that someone took his items in a club and second that it was 
carried out when someone asked to borrow his phone.
Looking at the first scenario, Mr B told our investigator that his phone was locked with a PIN 
 so I cant see how anyone but him could open it to access the Notes section of his phone 
to obtain the cards PIN. I think he could well have had his items stolen, even had the SIM 
card removed, but the majority of the disputed transactions used the correct PIN and it 
doesnt seem likely that a thief could bypass the phones PIN to gain access to Mr Bs 
phone. So, I dont think this is the likely explanation.
Coming to Mr Bs second scenario, which he later denied saying, he described a person in 
the street asking to use his phone, which is when the SIM was taken. The Notes on his phone were opened to obtain the PIN and the card was stolen. I can understand how Mr B 
could lend his phone to someone to use, which he would have to open with his own PIN 
before handing it to them. And I can see how someone might be able to obtain the PIN if 
they knew it was stored in the Notes section of the phone, but I cant see them removing the 
SIM card whilst next to Mr B as hes unlikely to let a stranger move away from him with his 
phone, particularly so early in the morning in a city environment. 
Also, the thief would need to obtain Mr Bs card from his wallet and then return the wallet 
without him being aware. I just dont think this is plausible when standing in the street. Of 
course, Mr Bs card could have been stolen earlier  but that would indicate the thief knew it 
was Mr Bs card and that he could obtain the PIN that was stored in his phone. Im unsure 
why a thief would automatically assume the PIN was stored in the phone and then risk trying 
to obtain it by asking to borrow it. If theyd taken it earlier or found it, they could have simply 
used it to make contactless purchases  whilst less profitable, it would have been with much 
less risk to use it that way.
By removing the SIM from the phone, whoever was using the card planned to be able to deal 
with potential security texts from Santander and knew it was likely the PIN was kept in the 
phone  as there doesnt appear to be any other reason for obtaining the SIM or returning 
the phone. I think there are too many steps required to explain how someone essentially 
targeted Mr B and his inconsistent testimony makes it difficult to understand what actually 
happened that night.
Ive looked at the way the card was used and it does have the hallmarks of how a stolen 
card may be used, including attempts to use it for a short while after it was reported stolen. 
But, without a plausible explanation of how, in particular, the PIN was obtained, I cant 
uphold this complaint.
Mr B thought that Santander could have done more because the pattern of spending was 
unusual. The evidence indicates that they sent fraud alert messages out for some of the 
payments and because they received confirmation responses, the transactions were allowed 
to go through. Santander sent these messages to the registered number they had for Mr Bs 
account, and whilst I understand he said his SIM was taken, Santander were unaware of this 
and I dont think they needed to do anything different once they received a positive response 
from the message they sent out.
I think its implausible to conclude these transactions werent authorised by Mr B without 
stronger evidence to the contrary. That means I think its more likely than not that Mr B 
carried out these transactions himself  or that someone else with consent did so and I dont 
uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman