DRN-3299138
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) failed to refund money he 
lost as part of a scam.
What happened
Mr C had historically purchased Bitcoin from a company called Plusoptions, who ceased 
trading in March 2019 following a warning that was published by the FCA. Mr C was later 
contacted in September 2019 by a scammer claiming to be from Plusoptions, who said he 
could help recover his funds following the companys liquidation. 
Mr C was told that the refund was to be made by way of a cryptocurrency exchange. 
However, in order to receive the refund, he was told he would have to pay a withholding tax 
to BTCBIT (a legitimate cryptocurrency trading platform), where he was told he would then 
receive around £15,000 in return. Mr C then made the following transactions from his online 
account, debit card and credit card:
Date Recipient Payment method Amount
4 September 2019 CH Hannah International 
Transfer£1,450.75
4 September 2019 BTCBIT Debit card £3,000
4 September 2019 BTCBIT Debit card £1,000
4 September 2019 BTCBIT Credit card £850 *(payment 
initially blocked by 
First Direct)
10 September 2019 CH Hannah International 
Transfer£1,001
12 September 2019 BTCBIT International Debit 
card£2,864.56 (plus
£78.77 non-sterling 
fee)
12 September 2019 BTCBIT Credit card £390
12 September 2019 BTCBIT Credit card £1,000
12 September 2019 BTCBIT Credit card £150
24 September 2019 BTCBIT International Debit 
card£885.54 (plus
£24.35 non-sterling 
fee)
4 October 2019 BTCBIT Debit card £3,000
Total disputed 
amount£15,694.97
Mr C eventually realised he had been scammed as all the funds he had paid to BTCBIT had 
been siphoned off by the scammer. He reported the fraud to First Direct, who declined to 
refund any of the money he had lost as he had authorised the transactions. Unhappy with 
this, Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He noted that First Direct had blocked one 
of Mr Cs debit card payments, where he spoke to it on the phone in order to unblock the 
payment. However, he didnt think that any further probing questions on First Directs part 
would have unearthed the scam Mr C was in the process of falling victim to, such that any 
intervention would have prevented his loss. Mr C disagreed, so the matter was escalated to 
me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr C for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time. 
This is because they were made by him using the legitimate security credentials 
provided to him by First Direct. These must be regarded as authorised payments 
even if Mr C believes he was the victim of a sophisticated scam. The fact that some 
of the payments took him over his credit and or overdraft limit also does not mean 
they were not authorised.
As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their customers 
instructions. Banks have a duty to make payments or accommodate cash withdrawal 
requests correctly and promptly so that legitimate payments are made correctly. So, 
consumers who authorise a payment, even where that turns out to be fraud related or 
they were tricked into doing so, start off on the back-foot when it comes to getting 
that payment returned to them because the bank was following a valid instruction.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something 
wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the 
transaction before making the payment. So, Ive looked into what this means for this 
case and whether the bank should have done more here to prevent the payments in 
dispute.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Having considered this together with the particular circumstances of this case, I am 
satisfied there were reasonable grounds for First Direct to suspect fraud or a scam, 
and therefore justify an intervention. In light of the frequency of the payments and 
sums involved in relation to how Mr C normally operated his account, I think that First 
Direct ought to have identified the risk of harm. In other words, this was a highly 
unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for Mr C due to multiple payments 
being made to a cryptocurrency exchange in quick succession  which indicated that 
something untoward might be happening.  I do not consider that the first three payments listed in the above table would have 
been enough to trigger First Directs fraud detection systems alone, as they were not 
for an overly significant amount, so I dont think they would have appeared unusual 
when compared to Mr Cs usual account activity. But by the time a third transaction 
attempt had been made to the same merchant in quick succession (i.e. BTCBIT), this 
should have flagged on First Directs systems, which indeed it did, as the payment 
was blocked. 
Overall, it would have been reasonable for First Direct to have properly questioned 
Mr C before processing the third payment of £850 he made to BTCBIT in order to 
satisfy itself that all was well. It is common ground that there were fraud triggers in 
this case because First Direct did in fact intervene by blocking the payment. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank did enough in all the 
circumstances with that intervention.
First Directs systems blocked the payment of £850, which led to Mr C having to call 
the bank on five separate occasions on 4 September 2019 in order to get the 
payment to go through. So there were several opportunities in which it could have 
asked him about the payment he was trying to make, but the bank didnt ask anything 
in relation to the nature of the payment, and simply lifted the block because Mr C had 
requested it. 
Had the bank asked relevant questions of Mr C during any of the calls he made that 
day, Im satisfied it would have been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. In 
other words, but for the banks failure to make further enquiries, it would have been 
on actual notice that the Mr C was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. 
If First Direct had asked Mr C what the payments to BTCBIT were for and the basic 
surrounding context, it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and 
that everything had originated from a third party purporting to be from an 
unauthorised company that was no longer trading. 
During one of the phone calls Mr C had with First Direct on 4 September 2019, he 
said he was trying to pay a cryptocurrency firm and when asked if he had spoken to 
BTCBIT, he said he was in touch with a third party and was dealing with them. Im 
satisfied this ought to have raised concerns with First Direct or have at least 
prompted it to probe further into who the third party was, as well as what the 
payments were for. If it had done so, it would have discovered that he was being 
asked to pay money into a crypto exchange as a form of tax in order to receive a 
refund from a supposedly defunct company (which also had FCA warnings in place). 
All the circumstances of the payments Mr C was seeking to make indicated that he 
was at risk of losing his money to a scam.
I appreciate that BTCBIT is a legitimate crypto trader. But I think First Direct still 
should have provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to banks 
about the increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency. 
After all, at the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought 
to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks 
associated with crypto trading, including many warnings of potential fraud. For 
example, the FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams 
in mid-2018. Regulated businesses ought reasonably to take notice of such insight. 
By the time Mr C made these payments, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in 
frequency and its reasonable to conclude that banks, such as First Direct, had also 
had time to digest these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and 
prevent this type of fraud. 
Even if an intervention by the bank wouldve identified that the payment was going to the consumers own account with BTCBIT, the conversation should not have stopped 
only on the basis that the money appeared to be going somewhere safe and within 
the consumers control.  
I say this because, by the time Mr C made these payments, I think First Direct had or 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked to have 
been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the consumer often 
first purchases a crypto asset or sends money to a platform where the money is 
subsequently moved on to or taken by the fraudster.
With this in mind, I would have expected First Direct to have asked questions about 
the context and true purpose of the payments Mr C was making. While it is not up to 
our service to dictate which questions a bank should ask, First Direct couldve, for 
example, asked how Mr C had been contacted, whether he had parted with personal 
details in order to open a trading account, and how he came to be making the crypto 
payment. Im satisfied this forms part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a 
consumer from the potential risk of a prominent type of scam. 
Although there is no reason to doubt that Mr C would have explained what he was 
doing, I accept it was possible that he might not have revealed enough information to 
lead the bank to understand whether he was at risk of financial harm from this 
particular type of fraud (or any type for that matter). I cant know for certain what 
wouldve happened. However, I reach my conclusions not based on mere 
possibilities, but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the 
circumstances. And on balance, Im satisfied Mr C wouldve likely shared information 
which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that he was coached to tell the bank a certain story, or that he had any reason to be 
secretive about what he was doing, because he was under the impression he was 
receiving a refund. 
In light of this, I think Mr Cs losses were foreseeable to First Direct despite the 
payment on the face of it not leaving the consumers control. And Im satisfied that 
had the bank (having identified the third payment to BTCBIT as unusual and 
suspicious) asked relevant questions of Mr C when he called, it would have been 
apparent that he was falling victim to a form of cryptocurrency scam. In other words, 
but for First Directs failure to make further enquiries, it would have been on actual 
notice that Mr C was going to suffer financial harm from fraud.  
Further, even if Mr C had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a 
warning would have alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to 
cryptocurrency scams. Which, in turn, would probably have led him to second guess 
the supposed third partys credentials, i.e. whether they were in fact professionally 
linked to anything to do with the distribution of Plusoptions assets. The result of 
which, would likely have stopped Mr C in his tracks from making any further 
payments.
So, in any case, Mr Cs losses, though not arising from the initial transfers, ought to 
have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, First Direct. Therefore, 
and taking into account whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, Im 
satisfied the bank can be held responsible for the loss Mr C has suffered from the 
payment of £850 on 4 September 2019 onwards, as I think it could have ultimately 
prevented the £850 and all subsequent scam payments (totaling £10,141.10, not 
including fees) from being made. I appreciate it may come as a disappointment to 
Mr C for this not to include the prior payments he made. But for the reasons already 
stated, Im not persuaded that First Direct wouldve had sufficient cause for concern 
or reason to intervene prior to the third payment being made to BTCBIT.I accept that, when simply executing authorised payments, banks such as First Direct 
do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment 
advice. However, the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute 
unauthorised investment advice  so I do not think the bank wouldve acted out of 
line, had it warned Mr C along the lines that Ive described.
Contributory negligence
Notwithstanding the above, I do think that Mr C was partly to blame for what 
happened. Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for 
their decisions, and Mr C has also accepted that he is partly to blame for his loss. In 
the circumstances, I think he did foresee the risk of some sort of harm of this nature  
but he still went ahead nonetheless and did not take sufficient measures to avert it.
For example, Mr C contacted First Direct as he had concerns that he had possibly 
been the victim of a scam, which led to the bank issuing him a new debit card. 
However, despite these concerns, he continued to make further payments on his 
newly issued debit card. I also think Mr C ought to have carried out further checks 
into the third party that was claiming to be distributing Plusoptions assets after it 
ceased trading, and I think it shouldve also given him cause for concern that he was 
being asked to pay a form of tax payment into a crypto exchange.  
Mr C considers it would be fair for his compensation to be reduced by 50% as a 
result of his contributory negligence. And I agree that this represents a fair and 
reasonable deduction in order for him to share some blame for what happened. 
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr C responded accepting my 
provisional decision; First Direct did not respond with any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has put forward any further comments or evidence for consideration, 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading 
as First Direct) to:
Refund Mr C 50% of the stolen payments (including any fees and charges) starting 
from (and including) the £850 payment made to BTCBIT on 4 September 2019 
onwards. For any payments made from Mr Cs debit card/current account, First 
Direct should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% simple 
interest per year from the respective date of loss to the date of the refund.
For any payments made from Mr Cs credit card, First Direct should return the credit 
card account into the position it would have been in had the disputed transactions not 
taken place (including refunding any fees and charges levied as a result of the 
disputed payments).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 Jack Ferris
Ombudsman