DRN-3803527
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from Secure Trust Bank Plc surrounding their 
verification of a new account he opened with a third-party bank.
What happened
Mr L had opened a new account with a third-party bank and wanted to update Secure Trust 
with the new account details. Secure Trust told Mr L they needed a bank statement for the 
new account in order to verify it. Mr L didnt have such a statement as the account had only 
just opened and he wanted Secure Trust to accept an account opening letter instead. But 
Secure Trust confirmed they required a bank statement and that an account opening letter 
wouldnt suffice. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Secure Trust looked at Mr Ls complaint. They confirmed that a statement had been 
required, and they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mr L by requiring one. Mr L wasnt 
satisfied with Secure Trusts response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Secure Trust had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Secure Trust confirm that when a customer seeks to update their nominated bank details, as 
Mr L did, theyll first attempt to verify that new account electronically. Unfortunately, in this 
instance, Secure Trusts attempt to verify the account electronically wasnt successful, and 
so they asked Mr L for a bank statement for the new account so that the account could be 
verified to their satisfaction by that statement and from the information present on it. 
This all seems reasonable to me. Mr L didnt have an account statement for the new bank 
account and wanted Secure Trust to verify his account using an account opening letter 
instead, rather than him having to request an account opening statement from his new bank 
and then forward that on to Secure Trust. 
I can understand why Mr L might have wanted to avoid the inconvenience of requesting an 
account opening statement, especially as the account opening letter he wanted Secure Trust 
to accept included all the information needed by Secure Trust to verify that account.  
But Im satisfied that Secure Trust, as a financial institution operating in a highly monitored 
and regulated industry, were entitled to set their own requirements as to how they verify an 
account. And so I feel it was incumbent on Mr L to have met Secure Trusts requirements  
which I dont feel were unreasonable  to Secure Trusts satisfaction, rather than Secure 
Trust being expected to adjust their verification requirements inline with Mr Ls preferences. 
I also dont feel that Secure Trusts requirement for an account statement resulted in Mr L 
being asked to perform an unreasonable task here. This is because it can be the case that a 
necessary degree of inconvenience  such as requesting an account opening statement  
can occur if a customer needs to take action to meet the reasonable requirements of a 
business. And Im satisfied that this is the case in this instance.
Ultimately, Secure Trusts insistence that Mr Ls new account be verified via an account 
statement and not via an account opening letter doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and so I 
dont feel that Mr L being compelled to obtain one from his new bank by Secure Trust was 
unfair or that it resulted in any degree unreasonable inconvenience for Mr L.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Secure Trust to 
take any further action here. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but I trust 
hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman