DRN-2838842
The complaint
Miss M complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, applied a default to her credit file 
when it shouldnt have. She said it failed to update her address so she did not receive the 
notice of default. She also complains about the customer service she received when she 
complained.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and the investigator has set 
them out in detail in his view, so I wont repeat them here. Instead Ill focus on the reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will be partially upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
Change of address:
Ive listened to two phone calls from 12 August 2019 when Miss M attempted to 
make a payment to her credit card to pay off her outstanding balance. She said she 
also wanted to close the account. Miss M couldnt make the payment during either of 
these calls. The operator told Miss M that the address of her credit card with Halifax 
did not match the address of the debit card she would be using to make the payment 
so he couldnt go ahead with the payment. 
Miss M said in July or August she visited a local branch and handed in a change of 
address letter. She said nothing happened, so she emailed Halifax customer service 
team to chase the letter. Halifax said that it had no record of the letter and that email 
is not a verified method of contact for it to make changes. It said it cant arrange call 
backs from emails. Ive no reason to doubt Miss M when she said she gave a letter to 
the branch and it does appear the letter wasnt processed.  
During her complaint call with Halifax the operator said that in a separate complaint 
call in July 2019 Miss M was told that Halifax could update the address by phone for 
the complaint but not the account profile. She said Miss M had known in July and 
October that the address was wrong. I can see why Miss M would email Halifax but it 
was incumbent on Miss M, as part of the account terms and conditions, to make sure 
Halifax had the correct address. I do understand that Miss M had a new baby around 
this time but I believe she shouldve followed up her letter and emails with phone 
calls or another visit to the branch. 
I also agree with the investigator that Halifax could have acknowledged Miss Ms 
emails even if this meant telling her it couldnt action her request by email. It also 
failed to process the change of address letter. So I think £50 in compensation to Miss 
M for the inconvenience is fair and reasonable. 
Default notice:
During both calls on 12 August Halifax told Miss M her outstanding balance of 
£2,323.85. So, Im satisfied that on 12 August she was aware of this figure. 
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ms credit card statements. I can see a payment of £2,000 
was received by Halifax and the payment cleared on 13 August 2019. Although 
Halifax and Miss M disagree about how the payment was made  in branch or online 
 its not disputed that she paid £2,000 towards her outstanding balance either on the 
same day as the phone calls or the day after.  
Miss Ms intention during the phone calls was to pay the full balance but she went on 
to make a payment of only £2,000, leaving a remaining balance of £323.85. I note 
from her statements up to January 2021 that no further payments were sent, and 
interest accrued on the outstanding amount. 
Miss M said she didnt receive letters or a default notice. Halifax has said this is 
because they were sent to the address it had on file which is different to Miss Ms 
new address. Miss M only had a mail forwarding service for three months. Even 
though Miss M did not receive these letters Im satisfied that Miss M was aware or 
ought reasonably to have been aware that the balance owing on her credit card was 
at least £323.85 from August 2019. And although she didnt receive the letters 
interest was still accruing and payments were still due as per the account terms and 
conditions. So, I wont be asking Halifax to remove the default. 
Complaint handling:
Miss M has said she was laughed at over the phone when she called to complain. 
The rules under which Im obliged to operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) Rules published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook. Complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity. 
I can consider a complaint about the manner in which Halifax has administered its 
business, provided that the business is an activity that is subject to our jurisdiction.
Ive listened to the complaint call between Miss M and Halifax. Im satisfied the 
operator handled the call professionally and did not laugh.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, must pay Miss M £50 in 
compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman