DRN-2807444
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(Argos) mishandled her account when it went into arrears and unfairly recorded a 
default notice on her credit record.
  
What happened
Mrs C had a store card with Argos. She received monthly statements for her account 
and was also able to manage her account via the internet and an app.
Unfortunately, at the start of 2019 Mrs C began to have some financial difficulties due to 
a change in her circumstances. In April 2019 Mrs C stopped making the minimum 
payments on her account.
Mrs C says she tried to contact Argos via the phone but couldnt get through to tell it 
what had happened. Argos continued to send Mrs C her monthly statements showing 
that her account was in arrears and that £12 late fee charges were being added for 
each missed payment. In addition, it sent Mrs C a total of five letters between April and 
June 2019 warning that her account was in arrears. Mrs C says she didnt receive any 
of this correspondence.
Due to the number of missed payments Argos sent Mrs C a default notice in July 2019. 
This notice gave Mrs C 28 days to clear the arrears and if she didnt further action would 
be taken. The letter listed the further action such as terminating the agreement and 
requiring full payment of any outstanding debt.
In August 2019 Mrs C responded to a missed call on her mobile and spoke to Argos. The 
agent informed Mrs C she was in arrears and she acknowledged that she hadnt been 
making her minimum payments due to financial difficulties. Mrs C said she would be 
clearing the arrears over the next two weeks. The agent checked that Mrs C was able to 
pay her priority bills and that the account was affordable, and Mrs C said it was and that 
she was waiting for some money to arrive once she had sold a property. The agent told 
Mrs C she needed to pay the arrears in full by a set date in August.
Mrs C paid the arrears two days after the expiry date of the default notice. As Mrs C then 
did not make any further minimum payments towards her account as required for August 
or September 2019 Argos passed the account to a third-party collection agency and 
closed the account. It recorded that the account had been defaulted on Mrs Cs credit 
record.
Mrs C complained to Argos that she hadnt been told during the phone call in August that 
a default notice had been sent to her and that if she didnt pay by a set date then her 
account would be defaulted. She said if shed have known, she would have borrowed the 
money and paid it. Mrs C said she hadnt received any of the statements or letters about 
her account.
Argos didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had written to Mrs C on several occasions 
about her account, but she hadnt responded. The default notice had been issued due to 
the level of arrears that had built up and was in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions.
Argos said it had reviewed the call between Mrs C and its agent in August 2019 during 
which the account and the arrears had been discussed. A payment had then been 
received via the app two days after the expiry date of the default notice. The payment app 
was clear that two days had to be allowed for payments to clear. It said it hadnt acted 
unfairly.
Mrs C was unhappy at Argos response and complained to this service. She said that the 
default notice should be removed from her credit file and she should be paid 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Argos handling of her 
account. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. 
She said she didnt think Argos had acted unfairly.
The investigator said she didnt know why Mrs C hadnt received the various letters and 
the default notice as they had all been correctly addressed, but it wouldnt be fair for Argos 
to be considered responsible for their non-delivery. And as Mrs C had other ways of 
accessing her account, she should have been aware of the arrears building up.
Our investigator said that listening to the call that had taken place in August 2019, this 
had been centred around the arrears and the default notice hadnt been raised 
However, she didnt think that even if the default notice had been discussed during the 
call that Mrs C wouldnt have still missed her payment defaulted. And as Argos was 
obliged to record accurate information on a consumers credit file, she didnt think it was 
unfair of Argos to have recorded that the account had been defaulted.
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view and the complaint was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
It wasnt disputed that from April 2019 Mrs C failed to make payments on her account as 
she should have done in accordance with the cards terms and conditions. And while I 
appreciated Mrs C said she tried to contact Argos, she didnt speak to them until August 
2019 following a missed call on her mobile.
Mrs C said she didnt get any statements or letters from Argos including the default notice 
sent in July. Id seen all the correspondence was correctly addressed so I didnt know 
why this post hadnt arrived, but I agreed with the view of our investigator that I couldnt 
reasonably say Argos hadnt tried to keep her informed about her account. And Mrs C 
had known she wasnt paying as she should, had access to her account via the internet 
and app and appeared, as shown by her conversation with Argos in August, to have been 
aware that late fees were being incurred. So, Mrs C understood that arrears were building 
up and she wasnt keeping to the cards terms and conditions. I thought it was reasonable 
to say Mrs C should have expected that some action would have been taken by Argos.
I thought in the circumstances that Argos was entitled to issue the default notice when it 
had, as by then Mrs C had made no attempt to pay and hadnt contacted Argos to explain 
what her difficulties were for over three months. I thought it was fair to say that Mrs C 
should have taken more action to manage her account.
Id listened to the phone call between Mrs C and Argos in August 2019, and in that call 
Mrs C had acknowledged shed missed payments and incurred late charges. Mrs C 
explained she wanted to clear the arrears off in a lump sum payment and had been 
holding off until she could do so. The agent had asked her, as I would expect them to, 
about affordability and her priority bills. However, the agent didnt raise the default notice at any point nor the consequences of not making the payment to clear the arrears by the 
set date in August. And I didnt think that was helpful or fair to Mrs C. As the agent had 
referred to the date set by the default notice to clear the arrears as the payment date, then 
I thought it was likely there was some information on the account that the agent was 
looking at which showed this was an important date.
As Mrs C cleared the outstanding amount two days after the date set by the default 
notice, then I thought if she had been told about the consequences of not paying by a 
particular date then it was likely she would have paid those arrears off before she had. 
She said she could have accessed the money earlier if she had needed to.
So, I thought Argos could have provided more help to Mrs C in the August 2019 phone call 
than it had. And if it had, then Mrs C could have avoided defaulting on her agreement. Id 
seen the account was now terminated and Mrs C was content with that.
Id also seen that Mrs Cs account had been passed to a third-party company to be 
managed and again I didnt think Argos had acted unfairly in taking that action. Mrs C had 
missed a number of further payments by this time.
I thought in these circumstances it would be fair for Argos to remove the default notice 
from Mrs Cs account and credit file although any other adverse information about missed 
payments should remain. However, I wasnt intending to ask Argos to pay Mrs C 
compensation as I thought she could have done more in the circumstances to manage her 
account. She had been aware the account was several months in arrears and I didnt think 
she was as active as I would have reasonably expected in dealing with the situation with 
Argos. Contact had been made in August 2019 but only after Argos had called her.
So, for the reasons given above I was intending to partially uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Argos has agreed with my provisional decision and has acted to remove the default from Mrs 
Cs account and credit file. Mrs C says that having the default removed is what she really 
wanted as an outcome for her complaint due to its impact on other financial agreements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has asked me to reconsider any part of my provisional decision and so, after 
reviewing the evidence again, I havent changed my view. I still think it would have been fair 
for Argos to have told Mrs C about the default notice and the consequences of not paying by 
the set date when shed phoned it in August 2019. And by not doing so, I think registering 
the default on Mrs C account and credit record was unfair as Im satisfied that had Mrs C 
been aware of the default notices existence, she would have taken steps to ensure the 
arrears were paid off before it expired.
However, I still think its fair and reasonable for the missed payments to be recorded on Mrs 
Cs credit file as this is an accurate record of how she managed her account. So, Im not 
asking Argos to remove this adverse information.
Putting things right
Im asking Argos to remove the default notice from Mrs Cs account and credit file. And I understand that it has already taken steps to do so.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Im asking Home 
Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card to remove the default notice 
from Mrs Cs account and credit file. I understand that it has already taken steps to 
remove this information.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman