DRN-4364863
The complaint
Mrs K complains Revolut Ltd blocked her account following a review and returned an 
incoming payment to source. She adds that the returned payment has been substantively 
delayed in reaching the remitting account. 
To put things right, Mrs K wants Revolut to pay her £1000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused.   
What happened
In April 2023, Revolut asked Mrs K to provide it with information regarding the source of her 
funds and entitlement to it through its mobile app. Mrs K says she didnt want to provide this 
information as it was unnecessary, not mandatory, highly intrusive, and a breach of her 
privacy.  
In May 2023, following a review, Revolut blocked Mrs Ks account. Mrs K was expecting a 
substantive payment from a company she had done some work for. This payment was 
returned to source  that is, to the account it was sent from.
Mrs K was told by Revolut that the source account should receive the payment within five 
days. But this didnt happen. Following Mrs Ks initial complaint, Revolut unblocked the 
account. 
Mrs K chased Revolut for nearly six weeks about where this payment had gone. Throughout 
this time Revolut said it had sent the payment, but the delays were caused because it had to 
go through the same chain of two banks it was processed through. 
The source account received the payment in early July 2023. 
Mrs K complained separately about the block and payment being returned, and later the 
delays in the funds being returned to source. Revolut sent two complaint responses, one in 
May 2023 and one in June 2023. 
In summary, Revolut said: 
May 2023 response
- Revolut has strict legal and regulatory obligations it must meet which affect its ability 
to make and receive payments. The incoming payment was reverted by Revoluts 
automated security system
- Mrs K was asked to provide information to Revolut as part of its verification process 
as its needs to comply with strict anti-money laundering and fraud laws and 
regulations. So that is why it needs to ask its customers for information regarding 
their source of funds and identity 
- Once the restriction of the account was passed manually to the verification team, it 
was lifted by them 
- Revolut acted in line with its terms and policies, but because it caused Mrs K 
inconvenience, it upheld her complaint. Revolut credited Mrs Ks account with £50 
compensation because of this 
June 2023 response  
- In the event of a reverted transfer from Revolut, it takes up to five working days to 
arrive at the sending bank. But its possible the return transfer gets stuck somewhere 
during this process. So contacting Revoluts banking partner(s) to investigate can 
take longer as it goes through many layers 
- Revolut has shown Mrs K that the transfer of the funds was done successfully from 
its end. And when Mrs K told it the payment had not been received, the payments 
team took immediate action and sent a trace request to its banking partner to locate it 
- When processing SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial 
Telecommunication) many banks are involved. Revolut provided Mrs K with evidence 
of the SWIFT routing action it had taken
- Revolut explained that it has no influence on this process as every transfer is subject 
to that banks, or other third-partys, processes as they are independent from it 
- Revoluts payments team had given Mrs K the correct information when she asked 
about the funds. And it contacted these partners repeatedly throughout to guarantee 
the funds arrived as soon as possible 
- Though Revolut cant control how quickly any banking partners, or third parties, 
handles each case, it has a responsibility and commitment to provide its customers 
with quick and efficient solutions to issues that arise 
- Despite Revolut acting in line with its terms and policies, to acknowledge the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs K, it would uphold the complaint. To compensate 
Mrs K, Revolut credited her account with £150
Mrs K remained unhappy with Revolut, so she referred her complaint to this service. Mrs K 
said that it took Revolut six weeks to get the funds properly returned to the source account. 
The impact of which has been devastating on her, and the way the matter has been handled 
is off-hand and shabby. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mrs K complaint and informed her that Revolut was 
offering a further £300 compensation as a proactive settlement to resolve her complaint. 
Mrs K did not accept this. She said Revolut should pay her a further £800 which would be 
reasonable and proportionate compensation. Some of the key points she made are:  
- The loss of substantial money over six weeks has caused her considerable anguish, 
mental and emotional break down, loss of sleep and the inability to focus on anything 
including work 
- Revolut rejected the payment without cause and failed to communicate with her 
about this 
- Revolut repeatedly misinformed her and sent confusing and contradictory messages 
on its chat function regarding reversing the payment
- Revolut failed to take ownership of the problem by being irresponsible, slow, elusive, and ambiguous. Revolut were unprofessional and provided poor customer service 
- Its not relevant that she was able to continue paying her bills and financial 
commitments 
Our Investigator then sent Mrs K their recommended outcome. In short, they said: 
- Revolut acted within its legal and regulatory obligations, and in line with the terms 
and conditions when restricting Mrs Ks account and reverting the incoming payment. 
Revolut has withdrawn the extra £300 compensation offer  and its not required to do 
more 
- When Mrs K didnt supply the compliance information, Revolut acted reasonably by 
blocking her account, as was its decision to later unblock it
- Revoluts terms confirm it cant make an inbound or outbound payment when the 
account has been blocked. So the payment was correctly reverted 
- The evidence shows Revolut acted promptly, and the payment was delayed because 
of the processing times of other third-party organisations. So Revolut isnt liable for 
any delay
Mrs K did not agree with what our Investigator said. She says the outcome is full of factual 
inaccuracies and omissions  and fails to fully represent the nature of her complaint. 
Because Mrs K didnt agree, her complaint has now been passed to me  an ombudsman  
to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I know she feels strongly 
about it, so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mrs K and Revolut have 
said before reaching my decision. Id also add that Ive very carefully reviewed all the 
technical evidence provided to me  which includes Revoluts internal notes, and transcripts 
of the in-app chats.
Electronic Money Institutions (EMI) in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must 
take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That 
sometimes means EMIs need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers 
accounts.
These obligations generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD). Its worth noting these checks include 
not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
Revolut asked Mrs K for information relating to the origin of her funds and account activity. 
Mrs K says she found this request unnecessary, intrusive and a breach of her privacy. I note 
too that Revolut gave her an explanation in its complaint response as to why it needs to 
carry out such an exercise. This included, that it must meet strict regulatory requirements 
and gathering such information helps it better combat fraud and money laundering. 
As a result of not receiving this information, Revolut restricted Mrs Ks account. In turn this 
led to a substantive payment being reverted to the source account. Firstly, Im satisfied that 
Revolut has done nothing wrong when restricting Mrs Ks account  even if it was an 
automated response from its systems. After all, regulated businesses like Revolut attempt to 
build online systems to help them meet their legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mrs K argues that the request for this information was unnecessary and a breach of her 
privacy. But Revolut must meet its legal and regulatory obligations  and that is what it was 
trying to do here. 
When an account is blocked in this way, it can mean payments both inbound and outbound 
are not permitted. Revoluts terms of account also say it can refuse inbound and outbound 
payments if legal and regulatory requirements prevent it from doing. Id add too that if a 
regulated financial business has concerns, it must mitigate any risk against failing to meet its 
obligations. 
So, Im satisfied Revolut did nothing wrong in not permitting the incoming payment to credit 
Mrs Ks account  and by returning it to source when the restriction was in place. I note 
Mrs K would like a more detailed explanation for Revoluts actions here, but it is under no 
obligation, that Im aware of, to do so. 
Mrs K says that Revolut is liable for around six weeks worth of delay in the payment being 
returned to the source account. And that Revolut provided sub-standard customer service 
and communication when she contacted it about this. 
Revolut has given me detailed technical evidence to show what was happening, and what it 
was doing to support the payment being returned. Im satisfied that the SWIFT return 
process involved several financial third parties for whom Revolut are not responsible for. 
Im also satisfied Revolut acted as quickly as it could, and at reasonably regular intervals, to 
locate and enquire with these third parties to help the funds move onto the source account. 
As I said earlier, Ive also read the in-app messages between Mrs K and Revolut, and overall 
I dont think Revolut has failed to exercise its responsibility to provide good customer service 
and communication. I accept however that at times certain communication couldve been 
better  but not so much that I think Revolut has acted improperly. 
Mrs K says this matter has caused her significant trouble and upset. I do appreciate, and 
dont undervalue, that it wouldve caused her some difficulty and distress. But having looked 
at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an 
award against Revolut given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures 
and obligations.  
So Im not going to ask Revolut to do any more than that which it has already done. I note 
Revolut withdrew its offer of £300 to proactively resolve the complaint. Having carefully considered this, I dont think it needs to revive this offer. Thats because I dont think its 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman