DRN-2350804
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as
American Express (AMEX) failed to properly deal with a false transaction that appeared on
Mr Ws account.
To put things right, Mr W wants AMEX to pay him compensation in recognition of its failings.
What happened
On 13 January 2020, Mr W contacted AMEX to report a transaction on his account he says
didnt authorise. The transaction was for £89 and was in addition to a genuine payment Mr
W did authorise of £88 to the same merchant, in respect of a hotel stay.
AMEX logged the transaction as a dispute and contacted the merchant to raise it. It removed
the charge from Mr Ws account while it investigated. The merchant replied with a document
that stated the payment had been keyed and gave Mr Ws card number.
AMEX accepted that as evidence that Mr W had authorised the payment, closed the dispute
on 16 January 2020, and re-applied the payment to Mr Ws account. AMEX says it wrote to
Mr W to confirm the position, but Mr W says he didnt receive the letter.
Mr W says AMEX was wrong to close the dispute as it wasnt resolved, and he says he had
to resolve the matter himself with the merchant. Mr W says it took him numerous phone calls
to get the issue resolved and that he expected AMEX to deal with the matter for him.
Mr W also says he was deprived of the benefit of the £89 until March because he paid his
credit card balance, including the £89, at the end of January, which included the disputed
payment.
AMEX issued a final response to Mr Ws complaint on 27 January 2020. It said it wasnt
responsible for the charges applied to Mr Ws account and that it had no way of knowing that
the charge was incorrect.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our Service. Our investigator didnt
uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said there was no financial loss and that AMEX had resolved
the issue within the given timescales.
Mr W rejected our investigators findings. He said AMEX had done nothing to resolve the
issue and that he had been left to deal with it himself. He asked for an ombudsman to review
the matter afresh.
On 28 October 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require financial institutions to refund
customers if they didnt make or authorise transactions themselves. So, my primary concern
is to decide whether or not I think Mr W authorised the payment from his account. And
whether AMEX acted accordingly.
Mr W has provided me with emails from the merchant, acknowledging the mistake and
confirming the payment would be refunded. And I can see that AMEX had those emails on
its file. So there doesnt appear to be any doubt that Mr W did not authorise the payment of
£89.
But AMEX closed Mr Ws case when it received a note from the merchant, confirming it had
his card details. AMEX has told me that, at that point Mr W could have got back to AMEX if
he had any further questions. But that misses the point. Mr W had previously told AMEX hed
authorised one payment with the merchant. So, the fact that the merchant had Mr Ws card
details didnt change anything. It wasnt evidence that Mr W had authorised the 2nd
transaction, it was just evidence that Mr W had authorised a transaction. Which is something
Mr W had already told AMEX he had done.
So, I dont think it was fair for AMEX to close Mr Ws dispute at that point  it wasnt resolved
and AMEX had insufficient evidence to demonstrate he had authorised the payment in
question. That meant Mr W had to resolve the matter himself with the merchant.
Fortunately, he was able to put things right himself, so he suffered no financial loss as a
result. But Mr Ws journey to achieving that resolution was not straightforward and involved
him having to make several phone calls and meant this matter was on his mind for a number
of weeks. And Im satisfied that would have caused Mr W distress and inconvenience.
Mr W says he didnt receive AMEXs letter dated 16 January 2020, confirming his dispute
was closed. And that he only found out AMEX had closed his dispute when he called at a
later date. AMEX has provided with a copy of the letter it says it sent. It was addressed
correctly, to the same address we have on file. So, while I accept Mr W may not have
received it (and I have no reason to doubt what Mr W says), I cant hold AMEX responsible
for that as it appears to have dispatched the letter.
Mr W has also said he was unhappy AMEX chose to email him with some communications
and post him others. AMEX says it chooses to send letters when it has sensitive information
to communicate. And, while I think it is debatable whether the declination of a disputed
transaction is sensitive, I cant reasonably say AMEX acted unfairly in issuing the closure
letter to Mr W by post. I appreciate Mr Ws frustrations at the mixed communication methods,
but I accept that is a commercial decision for AMEX to make. So I dont consider it would be
appropriate for me to interfere with that decision.
Mr W also says he was deprived of the £89 from January to March, because he paid his
card balance including the disputed charge. Ive looked at Mr Ws statement and I can see
the £89 was credited to his account on 28 January 2020, six days before his monthly
payment left his account.
So, on the face of it, it seems that Mr Ws payment did not include the disputed amount. But,
if, in response to this provisional decision, Mr W can show me that the payment made on 3
February 2020 was calculated at a time when the £89 did show on his account, I will
reconsider the point. And it might be that I ask AMEX to pay Mr W interest at the rate of 8%
on the £89, for the period Mr W was deprived of it.
Having looked at the evidence provided to me by both parties, Im not satisfied that AMEX
treated Mr W fairly when it closed his dispute. It didnt have sufficient evidence to show Mr W
had authorised the transaction, so it wasnt entitled to charge his account.
While I accept Mr W doesnt seem to have suffered a financial loss as a result, that is only
because he took it upon himself to resolve the matter. Something he shouldnt have had todo. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im minded to tell AMEX to pay Mr W £100 to
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
I asked both Mr W and AMEX to provide any further submissions or evidence by 13 
November 2020. Mr W responded saying he accepted my findings, but AMEX didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AMEX didnt offer any further representations, and because Mr W accepted my 
provisional finding, I see no reason to alter my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express must pay Mr W £100, to compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman