DRN-2437512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the charges Mortgage Express have applied to their 
mortgage.
What happened
On 16 July 2019 Mr and Mrs R complained to Mortgage Express about all the charges itd 
applied to their mortgage account. They said the charges were unfair, so should be refunded 
all of them.
Mortgage Express replied to the complaint in August 2019. It said it couldnt consider any 
charges before July 2013 because of the complaint handling rules known as the Dispute 
Resolution, or DISP, rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And it said 
since July 2013 only two charges had been applied - £54 for a field agent fee on 23 March 
2016, and £40 for an arrears management fee on 30 November 2016. Mortgage Express 
said these werent penalty charges, but charges to cover their costs for managing Mr and 
Mrs Rs arrears. And, in any event, it either only received part payment, or no payment, of 
the fees. So, it didnt agree to refund anything.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs R asked us to look into things. One of our investigators 
explained its very likely we couldnt consider any charges over six years old due to the rules 
we have to apply  which Mr and Mrs R initially accepted. Our investigator then considered 
the remaining two charges  and felt theyd been applied fairly.
In response, Mr and Mrs R said if you dont know you can complain about charges, its unfair 
to apply the six year limit. So, that complaint was passed to me to decide.
I addressed Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about the time limits in a separate decision and 
concluded I could only consider the two charges for £54, and £40. This decision only deals 
with those two charges we can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the statements Mortgage Express have provided which covers the years I can 
consider charges for  and the two charges mentioned above are the only two on the 
statements.
Mr and Mrs R have argued these charges are unfair, so Ive looked at both charges to 
determine whether I agree.
The first charge is for £54, is called a field agent fee, and was applied on 23 March 2016. 
This fee is included in the tariff of charges, and I can see one of the situations in which a 
field agent may be instructed is if theres issues with Mr and Mrs R keeping up repayments 
on the mortgage. The mortgage statements show Mr and Mrs R made payments less than 
the amount owing on the mortgage in this month. 
The second charge is for £40, is called an arrears fee, and was applied on 
30 November 2016. The tariff of charges says this fee will be applied if, amongst other 
things, Mr and Mrs R fall behind in paying their mortgage. I can see from their statements no 
payment was made to the mortgage for the payment due in November. And Mortgage 
Express have also provided a copy of the letter it sent to Mr and Mrs R saying no payment 
had been made, and a £40 arrears fee may be applied.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied the fees have been applied fairly and in line 
with the tariff of charges which were applicable to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman