DRN-3210878
The complaint
Mr K and Mr Ks complaint is about charges theyve been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K and Mr K acquired their car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held them responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. They would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA).
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement.
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to be 
mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection 
after the car was collected.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present 
when vehicles are collected. That was the case here, but the consumers werent given an 
opportunity to be present for the second inspection.
I dont think they were disadvantaged by that as I think the damage to both areas was most 
probably visible at the time of the first inspection.
The bumper damage
MBFS charged over £1,000 to replace the bumper they say was misaligned. The final 
inspection clearly shows that misalignment and, having considered the photographs taken 
when the car was collected I think there is evidence of misalignment as the right-hand side 
looks different to the left. The wheel arch liner has come adrift, and the bumper is not lined 
up with the wheel arch.
Ive considered the charge that MBFS applied but I dont think the amount being charged is 
excessive and therefore unfair, its broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen raised by 
MBFSs competitors.
The gouged tyre
The evidence gathered on collection and the photographs taken by Mr K and Mr K are 
inconclusive, but the second inspection clearly shows that damage and the BVRLA guidance 
says gouges are no acceptable.
I dont therefore think MBFS were wrong to make that charge and overall, Im not persuaded 
they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman