DRN-3589982
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (OFSL). 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with OFSL. 
The car was registered in March 2017, which means it was about five years old, and had 
travelled 41,860 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was £21,000. Mr 
M part exchanged a vehicle which had some outstanding finance on it, he also paid a cash 
deposit of £1,000 which meant that the total amount financed on this agreement was 
£20,000 payable over 60 months.
Mr M said that when he collected the car from the dealer, he noticed scratches on the wheel 
and bumper which he raised with the dealer and accepted a set of car mats to the value of 
£200 as a goodwill gesture. Mr M also explained that he had to have the locking wheel nut 
replaced which cost him £88. However, Mr S says that he also noticed the headlights and 
front grill werent aligned correctly. Mr M brought the car to a mechanic who noted the 
following issues:
water ingress to both front headlamps, nearside headlamp does not fit in correct position 
with wing and bumper, new panels, fan and housing fitted and overspray of paint on various 
areas under bonnet
Mr M said he believed the car had suffered damaged which the dealer hadnt told him about. 
Mr M said he accepted the goodwill gesture for the scratches and not for the other issues 
identified. Mr M complained to OFSL and provided them with the list of issues he received 
from the mechanic. Mr M said OFSL arranged an independent inspection of the car and was 
told that theyd provisionally agreed to reject the car and have it returned to the dealer.
Mr M said the whole situation has left him feeling stressed, as he doesnt feel safe driving 
the car and has lost out financially from the inspections and repairs to the car. 
In March 2022 OFSL provided Mr M with their final response to his complaint. OFSL didnt 
uphold the complaint. They confirmed Mr M complained in January 2022 about the issues 
with his car and had provided them with evidence of the problem.
They confirmed that they arranged for the car to be independently inspected in February 
2022. They said whilst the report advised the car was fit for purpose it also highlighted 
issues with the cars headlight and window operation.
OFSL said they attempted to negotiate a rejection with the dealer, but the dealer said the 
price had been reduced due to some issues. OFSL concluded that as a pre-sale inspection 
of the car hadnt identified any issues, and a reduction in price was offered due to its 
condition, a rejection wouldnt be reasonable as they believe the issues were brought to Mr 
Ms attention at the point of sale.
Unhappy with their decision, in March 2022 Mr M brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. In April 2022 OFSL advised our investigator that they stood by their decision 
not to uphold the complaint but offered to make a contribution towards the repair for the 
headlamps and window operation. 
Mr M also advised our investigator that hed arranged a further inspection of the car and 
provided a copy of the findings which Ive set out below:
2 run flat tyres and 2 none run flat tyres fitted
N/S front door damaged (dent repaired)
N/S/F headlamp poor fitment
Poor bonnet alignment
Front bumper damage underside
Overspray off both front inner wings
O/S front window fault
Noisy front shocks
Engine misfire
Following the inspection, Mr M provided us with evidence that hed had the engine misfire 
and window operation repaired by a mechanic.
Our investigator gave their view that OFSL hadnt acted fairly in the circumstances, however 
as Mr M had a successful repair carried out on the issues he complained about, a rejection 
of the car wouldnt be fair in the circumstances. So, our investigator recommended that 
OFSL reimburse to Mr M the costs for the repairs to the window operation and the 
replacement locking wheel nut, and to pay for the repairs to the headlamp. Our investigator 
also recommended OFSL pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Unhappy with our investigators view, Mr M felt he should be allowed to reject the car as 
there were issues outstanding that were identified on the mechanics report, so he asked 
that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. OFSL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that OFSL supplied Mr M with a used car that had travelled 41,860 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at £21,000 
which isnt insignificant. So, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could be used free from any major issues for a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from the findings of the independent inspection report arranged by OFSL and the 
letter from the mechanic confirming the issues with the window operation and the misaligned 
headlamps. OFSL have also acknowledged in their final response that issues existed but 
considered them to be minor and that a rejection of the car would be disproportionate. 
The CRA says that the quality of goods include their state and condition and freedom from 
minor defects. So, as the issues have been confirmed by more than one expert and neither 
party disputes that there are issues with the car, and considering Mr M reported the issues 
within a month of supply, Im satisfied that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr M. 
OFSL system notes have recorded that Mr M complained about the following:
Wheels need refurbing
Scratches on bumper
Drivers window not fully closing
The notes also state that Mr M raised concerns about the car having different features than 
what was advertised, as well as feeling pressured into the sale. However, I havent looked 
into these concerns because Ive seen no evidence that Mr M had taken them up with OFSL 
or that OFSL has commented on then in their final response. Even had I looked further into 
them Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest that the car was not as advertised 
or that Mr M was pressured into the sale.
Mr M confirmed that he accepted a £200 goodwill price reduction for the scratches and the 
damage to the bumper. Considering the age and mileage of the car, Im satisfied that its 
reasonable to expect the car wouldnt be supplied with the same quality as if it were new, 
and without seeing evidence of the extent of the scratches or wheel damage I think the 
goodwill offer was likely to be fair in the circumstances, and in particular Mr M hasnt 
disputed the offer made.
The independent inspection report arranged by OFSL, identified issues that would benefit 
from repair which OFSL acknowledged and later offered to make a contribution towards. 
These were the window operation and the headlamp alignment. It also confirmed there was 
fogging in the headlamp.
On the complaint form provided to OFSL Mr M said he believed the car was subject to a 
previous accident. However, the report confirmed there to be no evidence of impact damage 
affecting the cars structural integrity. The report commented on the overspray and the engine bay and the specification of the 
tyres which it says Mr M raised at the time of inspection, however it confirmed there were no 
issues with these areas. The independent inspection arrange by OFSL was carried out by a 
professional vehicle inspection specialist. So, Ive no reason to doubt their expertise and so 
Im satisfied their findings are a true representation of the condition of the car. 
And in consideration of the evidence provided Im satisfied that the outstanding issues 
following the inspection were:
The fogging and misalignment of the headlamps and the failing window operation. 
Mr M provided us with evidence that hed had the window operation repaired by his third-
party mechanic, and from what Ive seen Ive been given no reason to suggest that those 
repairs werent successful. 
Mr M also provided us with evidence that he had to pay for a replacement wheel locking nut 
which hadnt been provided with the car. 
So, with all things considered, Im satisfied that the issues raised by Mr M in his complaint 
besides the issue with the headlamp have all been addressed. Theyve either been 
successfully repaired or resolved through an offer of goodwill which Ive considered to be 
reasonable. 
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform, which includes the right to repair or replacement. So, in relation to the 
headlamp Ill be instructing OFSL to pay for those repairs.
I acknowledge that Mr M asked for a rejection of the car soon after acquiring it, however in 
the circumstances of this complaint I find the fairest outcome is to instruct OFSL to 
reimburse Mr M for any costs hes incurred as a result of the issues identified which Ive 
considered were present at the point of supply, and to pay for the repair of the issues with 
the headlamp. I consider this to be in line with the CRA and so I wont be asking OFSL to 
facilitate a rejection of the car. 
Putting things right
Mr M has provided us with evidence that he paid for the repair to the operation of the window 
and the wheel locking nut. So, Ill be instructing OFSL to reimburse these costs to Mr M. 
From the invoices provided, Mr M paid £125 for the window repair and £34.65 for the locking 
wheel nut set. However, as the issues with the headlamp is outstanding, Ill be instructing 
OFSL to pay for these repairs.
I acknowledged the inconvenience Mr M would have experienced having to arrange for the 
repairs, and having to sort things out, so Im in agreement with our investigator that £150 
compensation is fair in the circumstances. The car was always driveable and fit for purpose 
as confirmed by the inspection report so Im satisfied that a misaligned headlamp and faulty 
window wouldnt impact the driving experience to the extent of requiring further 
compensation.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Oodle Financial Services Limited trading 
as Oodle Car Finance to:
Reimburse to Mr M the cost of the wheel locking nut and the repair to the window 
operation and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement
Pay to repair the fogging and misalignment of the headlamps
Pay Mr M £150 in compensation for the distress or inconvenience caused
If Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it 
should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman