DRN-2636942
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited was responsible for him 
receiving inappropriate advice in 1989 regarding the transfer of his pension benefits from an 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan.
What happened
The advice Mr W received, and the personal pension plan he was sold, were provided by 
Legal and General (L&G). It was L&G that originally answered this complaint. But recently 
L&G has sold that part of its business to ReAssure. So it is that firm that is now responsible 
for this complaint. But since L&G has been responsible for this matter until very recently, 
I will generally refer to that firm throughout this decision.
Sadly Mr W died in 2018. So it is Mrs W, in her capacity as executor of Mr Ws estate that 
has made this complaint. Mrs W has been assisted in making the complaint by a claims 
management company. But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all 
communication as having been with, and from, Mrs W herself.
Mr W held pension benefits with an occupational pension scheme. He received advice from 
L&G in May 1989 that suggested he should move those benefits from the occupational 
scheme to a pension plan provided by L&G. Following that advice Mr W did indeed transfer 
his pension benefits.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests of 
consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had previously been 
provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect advice to 
transfer benefits.
In March 1999 L&G offered Mr W a review of the advice it had given to him. Mr W accepted 
the offer of a review, and the review concluded that Mr W had lost out because of the advice 
hed received to transfer his pension benefits. So, in July 2000, L&G offered Mr W 
compensation that it would add to his pension savings. Mr W accepted L&Gs offer in 
August 2000. Compensation of £11,539.97 was paid to Mr Ws pension plan later that year. 
Recently Mrs W has been made aware that her late husband might have been much better 
off remaining as a member of his occupational pension scheme. So she asked L&G to 
reconsider whether the advice it had given to Mr W in 1989 had been appropriate. L&G 
explained that the pensions review exercise was intended to be a one-off and so it wasnt 
appropriate for it to reconsider whether the advice it had given in 1989 was in Mr Ws best 
interests.
Mrs W brought the complaint to this Service. The complaint has been assessed by one of 
our investigators. He said that he hadnt seen anything to suggest L&G had failed to carry 
out the review in line with the regulators guidance. And since he agreed with L&G that the 
review had been designed as a one-off exercise he didnt think L&G needed to do anything 
further. 
Mrs W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made on behalf of the late Mr W and by L&G. Having done so I dont think I need 
to consider whether the advice Mr W was given by L&G in 1989 was suitable as I will explain 
below.
The review that L&G offered to Mr W in 1999 was part of a large industry wide exercise 
supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases it wouldnt be 
possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational pension schemes they had 
been advised to leave. So the aim of the review was to check whether the value of the 
pension investments Mr W held with L&G would provide similar benefits to those hed have 
received from his occupation scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr W, there was a lengthy period left before their expected retirement date. 
So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary because 
of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 2000. So although the review suggested the compensation that 
was being offered would mean the pension savings Mr W held would be expected to at least 
match the benefits he would have received from the occupational scheme at retirement, 
circumstances have meant that this isnt now the case.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
L&G carried out the review of Mr Ws situation as it was required to. L&G has provided us 
with copies of its file from the time the review was completed. In order to undertake the 
review L&G needed to gather some detailed information both about Mr W and about the 
benefits he would have been paid by the occupational scheme. It seems to me that the 
information L&G gathered was sufficient for it to make those calculations. And I havent seen 
anything that makes me think there were material errors in the information that L&G used at 
the time. 
I do understand why Mrs W is unhappy that her late husbands pension benefits were less 
than he might have received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then regulators 
decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this Service 
should now challenge or ignore.
I appreciate that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mrs W. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, Mr W would have received 
pension benefits that were significantly less than hed have received if he had stayed as a 
member of the occupational scheme.But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be 
conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given. That review was 
designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about whether compensation 
needed to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt 
reasonable for me to expect ReAssure to pay further compensation when the review 
resulted in Mr W being offered, and accepting, what was deemed to be fair compensation at 
the time. So I dont think ReAssure needs to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W on behalf of 
the estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman