DRN-4462880
The complaint
Mr R complains about the settlement that West Bay Insurance Plc offered him for the total 
loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Rs car was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. West Bay 
offered him £4,218, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr R was unhappy 
with this and with the level of service he received. He thought he couldnt replace his car for 
this amount. He thought it would cost between £5,000 and £5,500, as shown by adverts, to 
replace his car. West Bay agreed that there had been service failings and it paid Mr R £300 
compensation for this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought West 
Bay had reasonably based its settlement for the cars market value on the motor trade 
guides we use. She thought its offer was the highest of the valuations provided by the motor 
trade guides. So she thought this and West Bays payment of compensation for its service 
failings was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R replied that the settlement wouldnt be enough to buy a replacement car in the current 
market. He provided further adverts showing similar cars to his own advertised at higher 
prices. He said this matter was causing him stress. Mr R asked for an Ombudsmans review, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said that hed 
seen similar cars advertised for about £5,000 to £5,500 and so he was disappointed with 
West Bays offer. He said he had to borrow money to buy a replacement car. 
Mr Rs policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. I can see that 
this is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, 
mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In most cases, 
we assess the market value as the price which the consumer would have had to pay for a 
comparable vehicle across the various markets, immediately before the time of the damage 
or loss. 
This could be slightly less than advertised retail prices, although this will depend on the most 
likely market for the particular age and model of vehicle. Because of recent changes in the 
market, we are increasingly hearing of cars selling either for or close to their advertised 
price. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports, advertised prices and independent 
valuations. 
Mr R provided adverts for similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. But I have considered these and looked to see whether the 
advertised cars are identical to Mr Rs. And I can see adverts for similar cars at lower prices 
than West Bays offer. So Im not persuaded that the adverts provided by Mr R are reflective 
of the full market. 
Our Investigator thought West Bays settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive 
checked how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked in the motor trade 
guides we use for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and optional 
extras as Mr Rs car at the date of its loss. 
Given the current challenges in the used car market the motor valuation guides have a wider 
range of values then we have seen previously. And we think going by the highest will ensure 
consumers have received a fair offer, allowing them to replace their car with one of the same 
make, model and specification. So we now expect insurers to pay the highest of the trade 
guides, unless they are able to provide us with evidence which supports a lower valuation. 
West Bay had provided a valuation of £4,128, which was the highest of the valuations 
provided by the guides. This included a deduction for the cars significantly higher than 
average mileage which I think was fair and reasonable. The optional extras didnt add value, 
which isnt unusual. And so I agree that West Bays offer was fair and reasonable as it was 
made in keeping with our approach and the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it to 
increase this. 
West Bay agreed that its level of service had been poor. And Mr R provided evidence of long 
periods of being kept on hold, dropped calls, and inappropriate call transfers. West Bay had 
also incorrectly deducted £300 for pre-existing damage from its initial settlement. Given the 
age of the car, I think this was inappropriate. And so I think it correctly removed this 
deduction. 
West Bay paid Mr R £300 compensation for this trouble and upset. I think thats in keeping 
with our published guidance where the impact of an error has been felt over a month. And so 
Im satisfied that West Bays compensation was fair and reasonable and I dont require it to 
increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman