DRN-2189277
The complaint
Mrs and Mr O complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc processed a payment recall following 
an international online transfer they made. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr O hold a joint account with HSBC. In 12 July 2019 they made an online transfer 
in the sum of £40000 from their HSBC account to an account they hold overseas for the 
purposes of purchasing land. Those funds were successfully received in Mrs and Mr Os 
overseas account. 
HSBC said an intermediary bank was used to process the transfer as it had no direct 
relationship with Mrs and Mr Os overseas bank account provider  the receiving bank. It 
further stated the intermediary bank was appointed by the receiving bank.
Subsequent to the transfer being made Mrs and Mr Os land transaction didnt proceed. So, 
they asked their overseas bank to return the transferred funds to their HSBC account. But 
their overseas bank said this wasnt possible as the money could only be returned to the 
bank that had originally sent the funds  in this case the intermediary bank.
In January 2020 Mrs and Mr O contacted HSBC in order to ask it to recall their money. It 
said it requested a payment recall on their behalf. But, despite chasing the intermediary bank 
on several occasions, no response was received. So, HSBC said it was unable to do 
anything further to assist Mrs and Mr O with the return of their funds.
Mrs and Mr O werent satisfied with HSBCs efforts to recall their money; they thought it 
could do more to assist them. So, they complained. After HSBC investigated what had 
happened it told them it had already done all it reasonably could to recall their funds. And it 
explained that, in circumstances where the intermediary bank was unresponsive, there was 
nothing further it could do. So, it didnt uphold their complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with HSBCs response to their complaint Mrs and Mr O referred it to our 
service. Our investigator empathised with them but didnt recommend upholding their 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think HSBC had made an error or treated Mrs and Mr O 
unfairly. They also felt HSBC had done what it could to recall the funds theyd transferred. 
So, they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. But Mrs and Mr O disagreed and asked 
an ombudsman to decide their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While there were a number of banks involved in Mrs and Mr Os money transfer, this 
complaint only relates to what HSBC did. So, Ill focus on, and limit my findings, to the 
actions it took here.
My role is to assess whether I think HSBC made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr O unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything 
they and HSBC have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs and Mr O 
will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Mrs and Mr O transferred £40000 online 
from their HSBC account to one they held overseas. Its not in dispute that the funds were 
successfully received by their overseas bank. So, theres no issue with the outbound funds 
transfer and therefore I wont comment on it any further in this final decision.
I can see that Mrs and Mr O requested a return of their funds after their land transaction 
didnt proceed. HSBC says it used its best endeavours to recall the money they transferred. 
But it hasnt been able to secure the return of their money because the intermediary bank is 
unresponsive to its efforts. Mrs and Mr O dispute that and believe HSBC can do more here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Mrs and Mr O and HSBC have told our service, but Ill concentrate my comments 
on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs and Mr O believe HSBC was responsible for appointing the intermediary bank that was 
used to transfer their funds to their overseas account. But the evidence Ive seen satisfies 
me that the intermediary bank was appointed by the receiving bank. I say this because an 
intermediary bank is appointed by the receiving bank when theres no direct relationship held 
with the bank that sends the funds  as is this case here.
I can see that once Mrs and Mr O requested a recall of their funds HSBC acted promptly. I 
say this because, within a very short period of the recall request, HSBC sent numerous 
SWIFT messages to the intermediary bank to ask it to return Mrs and Mr Os funds. Those 
messages make clear that Mrs and Mr O wanted their funds returned and that the money 
should therefore be returned to their HSBC account. 
HSBC has provided evidence that demonstrates it chased the intermediary bank extensively 
and proactively for a response to its recall request. Im satisfied HSBC sent appropriate 
SWIFT messages to the intermediary bank on Mrs and Mr Os behalf. It follows that I think 
HSBC used its best endeavours and made reasonable efforts to try to recover Mrs and Mr 
Os money.
As the intermediary bank failed to respond I cant fairly conclude that there was anything 
further that HSBC could have done. Im satisfied its taken all the steps it could reasonably 
have taken to assist Mrs and Mr O with the return of their transferred funds. And I dont think 
its fair to expect HSBC to continue its trace of Mrs and Mr Os missing funds indefinitely in 
circumstances where the intermediary bank is unresponsive to its communication attempts.
I appreciate the reasons why Mrs and Mr O brought this complaint to our service and I 
understand their concerns about the whereabouts of their missing funds. But, in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded HSBC did anything wrong here. It did 
everything it could to try to help recover their money. I also think its dealt with their 
complaint fairly  its done all it can do to resolve this dispute. So, I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. I realise Mrs and Mr O will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve their dispute with HSBC informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs and Mr O further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman