DRN-1998798
The complaint
Miss V complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a medical expenses claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy.
Miss Vs represented by her father, Mr V.
What happened
Mr V took out travel insurance on Miss Vs behalf online, through a broker.
While Miss V was on holiday abroad, she became very unwell and had to be hospitalised. 
She was diagnosed with pneumonia. Mr V made a claim on Miss Vs travel insurance policy.
Ageas looked into Miss Vs claim. It got medical reports from the hospital which was treating 
her and copies of Miss Vs records from her GP. It learned that she had a number of serious 
pre-existing medical conditions, including restrictive respiratory failure. It considered Miss Vs 
existing conditions were directly linked to the illness which had led to the claim. 
The policy didnt cover any pre-existing conditions a policyholder has which are linked to the 
cause of the claim and which havent been declared to and accepted by Ageas. Mr V hadnt 
told Ageas about any of Miss Vs existing conditions when he took out the policy. So Ageas 
turned down Miss Vs claim.
Mr V ultimately arranged for a private air ambulance to bring Miss V back to the UK. He 
incurred over £21,000 of costs. He was unhappy with Ageas decision. He said thered been 
nothing clearly set out on the brokers website which explained that pre-existing medical 
conditions had to be declared. He asked us to look into Miss Vs complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Vs complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy clearly 
explained that pre-existing medical conditions werent covered unless theyd been declared 
to and accepted by Ageas. The available medical evidence showed Miss V did have pre-
existing medical conditions and so the investigator thought it was fair for Ageas to rely on its 
policy terms to turn down the claim.
The investigator also let Mr V know that Ageas hadnt sold the policy. This meant it wasnt 
responsible for whatd happened at the time the policy was sold. He explained a new 
complaint about the policy sale would now be set-up and considered against the broker 
thatd sold it.
Mr V explained that he wasnt being dishonest in any way when he took out the policy, he 
simply hadnt provided any information about Miss Vs medical history as he hadnt been 
asked any questions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Miss Vs claim. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that in this decision, Im only looking at whether it was fair for 
Ageas to rely on its policy terms to turn down Miss Vs claim. Ageas didnt sell the policy and 
so it wasnt responsible for the online sales process or the information Mr V saw at that time. 
It was also the brokers responsibility to send Miss Vs policy documentation out after the 
policy was sold. So I cant look at whether the broker met its own regulatory obligations 
when it sold Mr V the policy. That will be considered as a separate complaint against the 
broker.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Miss Vs situation. It mustve been a very stressful and 
upsetting time for Miss Vs family and I do hope shes made a good recovery since she 
returned to the UK. In making my decision though, I need to consider whether Ageas 
handled Miss Vs claim promptly and fairly. And whether it applied its policy terms 
reasonably and met its duty not to turn down claims unreasonably.
So Ive first looked carefully at what the policy terms say. Ageas has relied on the following 
term to turn down Miss Vs claim:
You will not be covered under this policy for any claims arising directly or indirectly from a 
pre-existing medical condition unless it has been declared to us and accepted by us in 
writing for cover. Call us. to declare your pre-existing medical condition and confirm if 
cover is available.
The policy also explains what Ageas considers a pre-existing medical condition to be. It 
says: 
Any medical condition where you have been prescribed medication, including repeat 
prescriptions, or received treatment or attended a GP or a specialist as an outpatient or 
inpatient in the last 2 years or for which you are currently on a waiting list for treatment or 
investigation;
Any heart, heart-related or circulatory condition; or any respiratory condition; any stress, 
anxiety, depression or any other psychological condition or any cancerous condition. 
Mr V acknowledges that Miss V has a number of serious medical conditions which require 
her to have supported care. Ive looked carefully at the available medical evidence and I can 
see that Miss V is prescribed several medications on a repeat basis. One of the conditions 
her GP has noted as significant is respiratory failure. The medical report from the hospital 
which treated Miss V also recorded that Miss Vs medical history included restrictive 
respiratory failure, which was treated by oxygen therapy. And the GPs records also show 
that Miss V had suffered from pneumonia previously  in November 2017 and in early 2019. 
The GPs notes showed that Miss V had visited the doctor very shortly before she travelled, 
with a ratly chest and a cough in her upper airways. The GP put her symptoms down to a 
post-infective cough but had prescribed rescue meds for her trip. The GP noted that Miss V 
had a low threshold given her frail state and recent pneumonia earlier this year. I would add 
though that the GP didnt think this illness should stop Miss V from travelling on her holiday 
and I do appreciate Mr V and his wife took the steps they could to ensure Miss V would be safe to travel. Its very unfortunate that it seems her condition seriously deteriorated the day 
after she flew abroad.
Given Miss V had received a number of medications, had seen a GP and suffered from a 
respiratory condition, Im satisfied that her circumstances did fall within the scope of Ageas 
policy definition of a pre-existing medical condition.
Ive then thought about whether Miss Vs medical conditions were directly or indirectly linked 
to the cause of the claim  pneumonia. I asked Ageas to provide evidence from its Chief 
Medical Officer (CMO) which stated that on balance, Miss Vs condition was linked to her 
medical history. The CMO said:
The admitting diagnosis was decompensation of the underlying ventilatory failure 
exacerbated by a chest infection. He added that Miss Vs acute chest infection had 
exacerbated her existing respiratory conditions. 
So on balance, Im persuaded the available medical evidence does demonstrate a direct link 
between the cause of the claim and Miss Vs pre-existing respiratory failure. Mr V has also 
said he didnt take out the policy until he came to print Miss Vs boarding pass. So its also 
possible Miss V was already suffering from the chest infection which deteriorated at the point 
he took out the policy. 
Both parties agree that Ageas didnt know about Miss Vs medical conditions and it hadnt 
agreed to cover them. Given I think theres a direct link between her pre-existing medical 
conditions and the condition that caused her claim, despite my sympathy for Miss Vs 
position, I think it was fair for Ageas to rely on its policy terms to turn down her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman