DRN-3498419
The complaint
Mr B complains that his chargeback claim and section 75 claim was rejected by Tesco 
personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
What happened
Mr B purchased private detective services and paid using his Tesco credit card.
Mr B wasnt happy with the service provided because he didnt receive a report. He asked 
Tesco to process a chargeback. Tesco said it couldnt do this because the service Mr B had 
purchased had been provided, albeit that Mr B was happy with the service.
Mr B expected Tesco to consider his claim under section 75 as well. But it didnt, so he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that Mr B had a valid section 75 claim 
because the supplier hadnt provided him with a report, which was part of the service hed 
paid for. The investigator said that this was a breach of contract and that Tesco should 
refund Mr B the fees he had paid to the supplier.
Tesco didnt agree. It said the outcome of the surveillance had been provided to Mr B in a 
concise format and that for the supplier to create a longer report to pass on the same 
information would add no value. Tesco said it didnt think it had acted unfairly in rejecting the 
section 75 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Tescos response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
Mr B has said that he didnt receive the service he contracted for because he wasnt 
provided with a report of the surveillance.  Ive looked at the description of the service on the 
suppliers website. This states that our final report will be accompanied by photographic or 
video evidence.
Ive also taken into account what Mr B was told in correspondence by the supplier. The 
supplier advised Mr B that the service comprised the following:
To place an individual under discreet surveillance
To provide a detailed report of our findings
To provide photographic evidence as required
To provide video evidence as required
Ive looked at the information provided to Mr B following the surveillance. He didnt receive a 
report. Eventually the supplier responded and said there was nothing to report for the first 
day  no male contact. Just work.
Mr B doesnt think that this amounts to a report in accordance with the services described on 
the suppliers website and in correspondence with him. Hes also said that he had doubts as 
to whether the surveillance was carried out at all.
Ive thought about whether the supplier provided the service that it contracted with Mr B to 
provide. Having done so, Im persuaded that theres been a breach of contract. I dont think 
the response sent to Mr B by the supplier amounts to the detailed report that he was 
promised. I appreciate that the supplier may not have had very much to report. However, the 
service that Mr B paid for was for the supplier to provide a detailed report. This wasnt 
provided.
Ive taken into account what Tesco has said about the report being brief. However, based on 
what Ive seen, Mr B didnt receive a report at all. When Mr B asked the supplier to provide a 
report it replied that he wouldnt get one because there was nothing to report.
Taking everything into account, I think theres enough evidence to conclude that there has 
been a breach of contract here. Mr B entered into a contract for surveillance services, the 
outcome of which were to be provided in a detailed report. The supplier didnt provide this.
Putting things right
I dont think that Tescos response to the section 75 claim was fair or reasonable. To put 
things right Tesco should refund Mr B the fees he paid to the supplier.
I cant see that Tesco processed a section 75 claim here, when it should have done so. This 
has caused further delay for Mr B, which has added to his distress and inconvenience. Im 
therefore asking Tesco to pay compensation of £100 to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Tesco Personal Finance Plc trading as Tesco Bank must:
Refund the sum of £325 to Mr B
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr B
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman