DRN-3657286
The complaint
Mr S and Mr S complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. They arent happy 
about the way it dealt with two change in vehicles on their multicar insurance policy and the 
subsequent increase in premium.
What happened
I looked at this case previously and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as 
follows;
Mr S and Mr S took out a multicar insurance policy for their cars in February 2021. When 
they bought a new car and changed the ownership of the other they asked Admiral to alter 
their insurance policy which lead to a number of issues that are not in dispute.
Admiral made a number of errors  it took a car off cover for a period of time when it 
shouldnt have, it added named drivers when it wasnt asked to and removed cover 
altogether for one of the cars that should have stayed on cover. Admiral also refunded over 
£1,000 when Mr S and Mr S were looking to change cars before realising it had made an 
error and recalled the money. And when it placed the correct cars on cover, as it should 
have done in the first instance, it requested Mr S and Mr S pay over £1,000 more for the 
policy than they had initially agreed to which they reluctantly paid in order to stay insured.
Admiral accepted it made a number of errors and offered Mr S and Mr S £200 by way of 
compensation but maintained that the premium was due. This was because it had eventually 
calculated the correct premiums for Mr S and Mr S cars. But as Mr S and Mr S remained 
unhappy they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for them and upheld their complaint. She asked Admiral 
to honour the original quote it had given. This was because Mr S and Mr S only bought the 
new car and proceeded with Admiral on the basis of the original quotation it gave which was 
significantly less. And she agreed it should pay £200 compensation. As Admiral hasnt really 
responded the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive formed a similar view 
to our investigator, but I want to give both sides the opportunity to comment before I finalise 
my decision.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
As it isnt disputed Admiral has made a number of mistakes in relation to Mr and Mr S policy 
I dont propose to go over the details again here. The issues are well known to both sides. 
Admiral has acknowledged its failings and explained that it will disseminate the lessons 
learnt to its staff. It has paid £200 in compensation to Mr and Mr S in recognition of its poor 
service. And I think this is a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances. I know one of 
the cars wasnt insured for a short while, but I agree Admiral would have had to cover any 
issues if they had occurred as it was its error that caused the problem, but fortunately 
everything was fine.
Turning to the premium level I agree it would be fair, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, for Admiral to honour the original quotations it gave Mr S and Mr S when they first 
asked about changing cars on the policy. I say this as it made a number of mistakes and it 
seems likely that the alternative car may not have been bought or insured elsewhere if Mr S 
and Mr S knew it would cost a lot more than what they were originally quoted. It looks from 
the notes on Admirals file that Mr S and Mr S were quoted a small additional premium when 
they were looking to buy the new car and place it on cover. But it is far from clear from the 
system notes what this figure was and Admiral have failed to respond to our investigator, 
comment on her view or provide a copy of the calls from this time so it is difficult to establish 
what Mr S and Mr S were told.
Given all of this, and the fact it was Admirals errors and mistakes that lead to the misquote 
and misinformation provided to Mr S and Mr S it seems only fair that it honours the original 
quotes it gave Mr S and Mr S when they first contacted it about the change of vehicles. And 
add 8% simple interest to any refund for the time they have been without the money in 
addition to the £200 compensation it has offered for the stress, inconvenience and worry all 
of this caused.
Replies and developments
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mr S and Mr S said they were happy 
with the position outlined. And felt that the addition of 8% simple interest seemed fair in the 
circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral didnt respond and Mr S and Mr S agreed with the position outlined I dont 
propose to go over the detail and history of the complaint again. 
I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. And that the fair and reasonable 
thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for Admiral to take the steps 
outlined in my provisional decision in acknowledgement of its errors and mistakes.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to honour the original quotes it gave Mr and Mr S when they 
first contacted it about the change of vehicles. And add 8% simple interest to any refund for 
the time they have been without the money in addition to the £200 compensation it has 
offered for the stress, inconvenience and worry all of this caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman