DRN-3701755
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-
sold them a package bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S opened their fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) on 20 July 
2011. They had previously held a current account and a reward current account which were 
not package bank accounts.
Mr and Mrs S say Halifax told them that they had to have a package bank account to obtain 
an overdraft that they needed at the time.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the sale of their URCA 
but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs S disagreed this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
hat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think that Mr and Mrs S were mis-sold the URCA. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
Ive not seen enough evidence to suggest Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S a tailored 
recommendation to take the URCA, so it didnt have to check it was right for them. But it did 
have to make sure it gave Mr and Mrs S enough information so they could decide if it met 
their needs at the time.
Mr and Mrs S say Halifax told them they had to have the fee-paying URCA to obtain an 
overdraft. I havent seen enough evidence to support what Mr and Mrs S have said, and I 
think I think this is unlikely. Mr and Mrs S also had an overdraft facility on their account 
before they took the URCA so I think they would have been aware this was not the case. 
However, leading up to the time Mr and Mrs S took the URCA they used their overdraft on a 
regular basis which incurred a monthly fee based on its usage. In the months that led up to 
Mr and Mrs S taking the URCA they were spending up to £26 per month on overdraft fees.
The URCA came with an interest free overdraft of up to £300 and it cost £15 per month.
The other main benefits of the account included worldwide family travel insurance, vehicle 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover and card protection. I 
think its reasonable to assume that these benefits, along with the benefit of an interest free 
overdraft up to £300 would have been discussed with Mr and Mrs S.
Considering Mr and Mrs Ss explanation that they needed an account with an overdraft 
facility, and that their bank account showed they were regularly in their overdraft paying in 
excess of what the monthly fee was for the URCA, I think they would have thought the 
benefits of the URCA would have been useful to them. 
The benefits of the URCA proved to be useful for Mr and Mrs S following them opening their 
URCA. Mr and Mrs S used their overdraft on a regular basis making use of the interest free 
benefit. They also used the travel insurance benefit that came with the account.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so its not unusual to find customers 
dont use all the benefits they offer. But its clear from the information available that Mr and 
Mrs S were able to use the benefits the URCA offered and I dont think it was mis-sold to 
them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman