DRN-3890576
The complaint
Miss S complains that MBNA Limited, who Ill call MBNA didnt process a chargeback claim 
properly for her and have failed to support a claim she made to them under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I dont think MBNA need to take any further action here. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as was the 
case here, it might be possible to make a claim under the chargeback scheme or under 
section 75. 
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by MBNA, its administered by Mastercard, and 
they set the rules. MBNA didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
MBNA submitted a chargeback in July 2022, but the merchant defended the claim, and it 
was rejected by the scheme administrators as there wasnt, in their opinion, sufficient 
evidence the car Miss S had bought had been misrepresented to her or had been faulty. I 
dont think MBNA did anything wrong with regard to the processing of the chargeback. They 
didnt pursue the matter to arbitration as, with the limited evidence theyd been provided by 
Miss S, they didnt think there was enough for a claim to succeed. 
But that wasnt the end of the story for Miss S as section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. So, MBNA were right to consider whether a 
section 75 claim could be successful.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If Miss S was given a false statement of fact, or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why she entered into the agreement I may think the car had been 
misrepresented to her. And in those circumstances, Id ask MBNA to take some action. 
Miss S says she was given a false statement of fact because the advert falsely claimed the 
car was a different colour, that it had a Citi pack, had two keys, an adjustable boot load, and 
a perimeter alarm.
It's clear the car wasnt as advertised, but Im not persuaded the issues Miss S has referred 
to were significant reasons why she entered into the agreement. I say that because if the 
false facts in the advert were a significant issue I think they would have been very clear to 
Miss S as soon as she saw the car and that she would have complained about them 
immediately, but she didnt. And I can also see that the advert explained that the consumer 
should confirm the car details/specification. The merchant has also provided a copy of a 
signed disclaimer explaining that the car didnt come with some of the features. Miss S says 
she didnt sign that disclaimer and shes provided some evidence that the signature isnt 
hers. But regardless of whether she signed the disclaimer or not, I think it would have been 
clear from the advert alone that the cars specification wasnt guaranteed. Taking all of that 
into account I dont think MBNA were wrong not to uphold a section 75 claim for 
misrepresentation.
Miss S also claimed that the car was faulty when it was received. If the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied there may have been a breach of contract. The 
Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have been 
of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Miss S hasnt provided any further evidence to support her assertion that the car had an oil 
leak. There have been no mechanical reports for instance, and Miss S has had some 
considerable time in which she could have gathered those reports. I can see that Miss Ss 
technician identified that a tyre pressure warning light had illuminated during a test drive 
before the car was collected. Im not persuaded that suggests the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality as I havent been provided with any garage reports to explain whether the origin of 
the fault was anything other than low tyre pressure. And even if it was, the relevant 
legislation would allow the supplier an opportunity to put that issue right. Im not therefore 
persuaded MBNA had sufficient evidence to suggest the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
and that thered therefore been a breach of contract. So, I dont think they were 
unreasonable to reject Miss Ss section 75 claim for breach of contract either.
And, as I dont think MBNA were unreasonable not to uphold Miss Ss claims I dont think 
they needed to consider any storage costs Miss S says she incurred as a result of these 
issues.
Miss S has also complained about the service she received from MBNA whilst they were 
handling her claims. MBNA have offered her £50 to compensate her for those experiences and I think that was sufficient. MBNA have explained that the offer is still available if Miss S 
wishes to accept it.
Ultimately, I dont think MBNA need to take any further action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman