DRN-2259683
The complaint
Mrs D is director of a company that Ill refer to as W. Mrs D has complained on Ws behalf 
that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance 
claim, after they were forced to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
W holds a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. Mrs D claimed on Ws policy in 
March 2020 for losses arising out of the closure of W, due to the Government-imposed 
lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid-19. 
Ageas turned down the claim because it said the policy didnt cover closure due to a 
Government Act. It said the policy would cover business interference or interruption as a 
result of a Notifiable Disease at Ws premises. However, while Covid-19 was a notifiable 
disease, Mrs D had confirmed there wasnt a case of it at the premises. So, this meant Ws 
claim wasnt covered. 
Mrs D complained to Ageas and said there was another term in the policy that covered 
closure by a Government body. Ageas said the term Mrs D referred to would have required 
damage to Ws property by a riot, civil commotion, strikers or locked out workers. And that 
term also set out that damage caused by one of these events was excluded if it was through 
requisition, confiscation or destruction by order of the Government or other statutory 
authority.
 
As Mrs D was unhappy with Ageas response, she brought the complaint to our service. She 
said W had been unable to trade and thought Ageas should pay the claim.
 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
Ageas had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the 
premises. And Mrs D said there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises. She also 
thought that the other term Mrs D had referred to required there to have been damage to 
Ws property, or property in Ws vicinity, and there hadnt been damage.
In response to the investigator, Mrs D said the policy had a paragraph that provided cover as 
a result of closure by the Government or other public body. Mrs D also pointed to a 
newspaper article that suggested a number of insurers would need to pay out following a 
legal appeal about business interruption insurance policy wording. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact lockdown had on W. But for the same reasons the 
investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ws claim.  
Loss due to damage
The terms and conditions of Ws policy sets out that it covers a loss of gross profit as a result 
of interruption or interference to the business as a consequence of damage to property from 
cover causes shown in the schedule. These causes are 1) fire, 2) perils (such as a riot or 
earthquake), 3) accidental damage and 4) theft or attempted theft. 
However, in order for W to be covered by anything listed under the cover causes, there 
would need be damage to Ws property, or property in Ws vicinity. The policy defines 
damage as Accidental loss, destruction or damage. Covid-19 didnt cause damage to 
property, and I dont think any of the cover causes set out in the policy provide cover for Ws 
claim.
 
There was clearly no fire, accidental damage or theft or attempted theft. This leaves the 
perils cause but I dont think this cover applies either. This is defined in the policy as:
 Riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked out workers or malicious people but not
Damage:

b) through requisition, confiscation or destruction by order of the Government or other
statutory authority
c) resulting from the stoppage of work
So, for this term to apply there would need to be damage caused by a riot, civil commotion, 
strikers, locked out workers or malicious people. Even if there had been damage to property, 
I dont think closure by the Government due to Covid-19 falls into any of these events. 
The wording Mrs D has referred to by order of the Government or other statutory authority 
is an exclusion to this term. So that means the policy wouldnt provide cover for damage 
caused through requisition, confiscation or destruction by order of the Government or other
statutory authority. However, given there is no damage, this exclusion makes no difference 
to the outcome of this claim.
Overall, given that this term requires damage to property, and would need to be caused by a 
riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked out workers or malicious people, I think its fair and 
reasonable for Ageas to say this doesnt cover Ws claim. 
Extension for notifiable disease
There is an extension to the policy that covers Notifiable Diseases, Poisoning, Defective 
Drains and Murder or Suicide. This says:
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from the
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of:
i. any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
ii. any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of
a Notifiable Disease (as defined below).Notifiable Disease is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
i. food or drink poisoning
ii. any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) 
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as defined by the policy, but I dont think this extension 
covers Ws claim. I say that because the policy requires the interruption or interference to 
Ws business to have been because there was a case of the notifiable disease at the 
premises. Mrs D has confirmed there wasnt a case of Covid-19 at the premises and that she 
closed her business as a result of the Government-imposed lockdown. 
I also dont think the legal proceedings referenced in the newspaper article Mrs D provided 
have any impact on her complaint. I say that because the proceedings dealt with policy 
terms that were different to those contained in Ws policy. 
Having considered this matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Ageas to pay the 
claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman