DRN-2509285
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Capital One (Europe) plc dealt with his chargeback.
What happened
Mr S says he made payments totalling over £1,400 to his account with a business I will call 
N. He says N credited his money to the wrong account and confirmed that in a number of 
e-mails. Mr S says he asked Capital One to raise a chargeback, but it didnt find in his favour 
and didnt take the chargeback any further. He says he needed the money for travel and was 
forced to take the money from a different account he held with a business I will call C. Mr S 
says Capital One then closed his account and has reported adverse information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs). He would like that information removed and would like his 
money back.
Capital One says its entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions to close an 
account. It says N gave it evidence the money had been credited to Mr Ss account and a 
mistake hadnt been made. Capital One says it was entitled in those circumstances to end 
the chargeback.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator spoke 
to N and C and says both provided evidence that the e-mails Mr S provided about this 
complaint were not genuine. The investigator thought it more likely the money did go to Mr 
Ss N account and thought he had provided contradictory evidence about the purpose of the 
money. The investigator also thought having looked at Mr Ss C account statement that he 
hadnt used it as he said to buy currency for £1,400.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and in summary maintains that he didnt receive the money 
and N credited it to someone elses account. He says the e-mails are genuine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
The chargeback rules are not as in this case set by Capital One but by the card providers. A 
chargeback isnt a right and the scheme is a voluntary one. But we would normally expect a 
bank or building society to raise a chargeback where there are reasonable grounds for doing 
so.
Im satisfied that Capital One did raise a chargeback that was defended by N. Im also 
satisfied that N provided Capital One with further evidence that it was entitled to consider 
which suggested Mr Ss account had been credited with the money and that the e-mails 
purporting to be sent by it were not genuine. In those circumstances Im satisfied that Capital 
One was reasonably entitled to conclude that a chargeback was unlikely to succeed and that 
it had taken the process as far as it could.
It follows that I dont think Capital One has made a mistake or acted unfairly by asking Mr S 
to repay the money. I also think that Capital One in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions is entitled to close Mr Ss account and is obliged to accurately report the account 
position to the CRAs.
I dont think it necessary for me to make any findings in respect of the authenticity of the e-
mails or about what if anything took place with Mr Ss N account. I think the important issue 
is that Capital One raised a chargeback as we would expect but reasonably concluded that it 
wouldnt succeed when given evidence from N.
I think this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do. If 
Mr S maintains that the e-mails from C and N were genuine then he will need to complain to 
those businesses as both say the e-mails Mr S provided were not genuine.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman