DRN-4332918
The complaint
Mr M has complained that since Atomos Financial Planning Limited (Atomos) took over the 
predecessor business that had provided him with advice in 1989, it has continued to be paid 
commission but hasnt been offered any service in return. As a minimum he wants the 
commission paid to be returned to him. 
What happened
Mr M had been given advice by the predecessor business to take out a HomeInvestor Plan  
the policy for which was to pay off his mortgage. Atomos took over the predecessor business 
but never contacted Mr M despite receiving commission. Mr M encashed the policy as he 
wasnt receiving any advice, but the proceeds didnt cover the mortgage which Mr M had to 
extend as a result. 
Mr M complained to Atomos who responded to his complaint on 25 November 2020, not 
upholding. It said;
The predecessor business had been taken over by Atomos in 2010 and it had been 
receiving the commission since September 2010. 
In 1989 there was no requirement for an adviser to offer annual reviews, but he could 
contact the adviser if he wanted on.
Regulations around transparency of costs and annual reviews changed in    
December 2012 but they didnt apply to advice given prior to that date.
Correspondence continued as Mr M sought further explanation, but the outcome remained 
the same. 
Our investigator who looked at the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
Mr M had been advised by a business which Atomos took over.
She didnt have any evidence to suggest the policy was advised by Mr Ms previous 
adviser to pay off his mortgage so she couldnt be certain this is what the policy was 
meant to do or any agreements that Atomos was to review the policy.
The policy was set up in 1989 and it says that Mr Ms previous adviser was entitled to 
receive commission in respect to the premiums paid.
Because of the time limits that applied she could only consider the commission that 
had been paid since 2014. The commission listed in the policy schedule was at a rate 
of 2.5% which was payable to Mr Ms previous adviser for the lifetime of the policy. 
Since Atomos had taken over the previous business then the commission was 
payable to Atomos.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said;
He hadnt been given regular reviews of the policy. He had been abandoned and left 
to look after the policy on his own.
If a business was to take over receiving commission for the policy, then they should 
introduce themselves to the client and offer their services.
He thought the taking of commission and lack of repayment of his mortgage was 
morally wrong and shouldnt be acceptable. 
The fact that the policy didnt make enough to pay off his mortgage hadnt been 
addressed. 
Mr M provided further documents from the time of the sale and the policy being set up to 
repay Mr Ms mortgage and his claims for the loss he suffered. The investigator considered 
the additional information and concluded there was no evidence to suggest that it was 
Atomos who was responsible for carrying out reviews or ensuring the policy repaid the 
mortgage  that was the responsibility of the product provider.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman reviews his complaint, so it has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
I should first like to clarify the complaint points Ill be looking at. There is correspondence on 
file about what is and what is not being considered in this complaint and I want to be clear 
about that.
Mr M has complained that Atomos has been receiving commission.
Since Atomos took over the predecessor business it hadnt provided Mr M with any 
reviews of his policy to ensure it paid off his mortgage.
The policy didnt cover the amount due on the mortgage  there was a shortfall and 
Mr M had to extend his mortgage. 
Atomos took over the predecessor business  which gave the advice  in 2010 and has 
been receiving the commission from the policy sold since then. 
The policy schedule from 1989 gave details of the different percentage rates of commission 
that would apply over the years plus the fact that the predecessor business would be entitled 
to receive commission in respect of those premiums payable for the lifetime of the policy.
That entitlement to receive that commission would have been transferred on the purchase by 
Atomos of the predecessor business. As such, Im satisfied that Atomos is entitled to receive 
the commission and at the rates indicated in the policy schedule. So, I dont uphold this 
element of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M isnt satisfied that despite Atomos receiving the commission of the policy it didnt 
provide him with any reviews about it. 
Clearly, I cant know for sure what Mr M was told at the point of sale about this. But Mr M 
has been able to give us some information from the time of the sale and which include some 
of the documents which look like they were provided by the policy product provider. Ive 
reviewed those documents which, amongst similar points, say;The value of your HomeInvestor Plan should increase so that, at the end of your 
chosen term, you can repay your mortgage loan and have a considerable sum left 
over. To give you complete peace of mind [the product provider] will regularly review 
your Plan to check that its value is growing at the required rate. We will tell you if you 
need to make any adjustment to your premiums to ensure that you can repay your 
loan on the intended day. 
And with regard to the reviews, it continues;
Reviews will take place one month before a Review Date (and any other time at the 
discretion of [the product provider]) to confirm that the plan is on course to repay the 
mortgage in full or to make an appropriate recommendation.
The document goes on to give details about when those reviews would take place. 
The above statements given in the product providers point of sale documents suggest to me 
that it was the policy provider that was to review the plan and not Atomos. And I havent 
seen anything to indicate otherwise. So, I cant agree that Atomos was responsible in being 
proactive in giving those reviews as the reviews were the responsibility of the product 
provider.
Atomos has also referred to a change in the regulations laid down by the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  on 31 December 2012 about annual reviews and 
transparency of costs. But those new regulations didnt apply to advice given prior to that 
date. And Atomos has said it abides by the FCAs rules for all of its customers to ensure a 
consistent approach in dealing with its customers, so wouldnt deal with Mr M any differently. 
I know Mr M doesnt agree with Atomos reasoning around this, he thinks its morally wrong 
and that Atomos is hiding behind the rules. But I cant make a finding that Atomos has done 
anything wrong here. Atomos approach means that all of its customers are treated equally  
it couldnt treat some customers differently than others  and its treatment of its customers is 
in line with the regulators rules. So, I dont agree that Atomos is acting unfairly or hasnt 
done anything other than it should.
Overall, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint as from the information I have been given I cant 
conclude that Atomos has done anything wrong. It was entitled to receive the commission 
when it took over the predecessor business and I cant see it was Atomos responsibility to 
either provide reviews or ensure the plan repaid the mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr M will no doubt be disappointed with my decision. Its clear he feels 
strongly about his complaint, and I thank him for the efforts he has made in bringing it. But I 
hope I have been to explain how and why I reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Atomos Financial 
Planning Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman