DRN-2059831
The complaint
Mr M complains the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc incorrectly used funds in his current account 
to pay an existing credit card debt. He says RBS did this without permission or warning.
What happened
Mr M holds a number of accounts with RBS including a current account and a credit card. 
RBS withdrew just over £1,100 from Mr Ms current account in March 2020 and used this 
money to pay the debt he owed on his credit card. Mr M says this was done without his 
permission or without proper warning.
Mr M says RBS did not notify him that it intended to remove the funds, and as such it has 
acted unfairly. He also says RBS didnt treat him fairly when he notified it of financial 
difficulties in relation to the credit card debt.
RBS says it sent a letter to Mr M which confirmed it planned action to use its right to offset. It 
says this was sent to Mr M via the post 14 days before it removed the funds. Mr M says he 
never received this letter.
RBS also explained in its final response letter that Mr M had not made any payments on his 
credit card since September 2014, and that these regular statements explained the need for 
him to clear his existing debt. RBS say these statements make it clear it may use the right to 
offset to clear the existing balance.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, and our investigator considered it. Having done 
so, our investigator felt RBS hadnt done anything wrong. In the course of his investigation, 
our investigator asked for RBS to provide copies of the letter it sent to Mr M explaining its 
intention to offset the funds. RBS was unable to provide the exact letter it sent to Mr M but 
provided our service with a generic template letter, and an audit trail to confirm which letters 
had been sent and when. RBS also provided our service with Mr Ms terms and conditions. 
Our investigator also felt RBS had acted fairly when Mr M contacted them about his financial 
hardship. Our investigator highlighted that RBS had refunded interest and charges on his 
account, as well as charging no further interest since June 2015. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said RBS hadnt proven it had sent the 
letter to him. He maintains RBS has acted incorrectly by withdrawing his funds. As no 
agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says RBS acted wrongly in withdrawing funds from his current account to offset the 
debt on his credit card. He says RBS shouldnt have done this. 
Ive considered this argument carefully but ultimately, I disagree with Mr M. In reaching my 
decision Ive considered whether Mr M had a balance outstanding with RBS, whether RBS 
acted fairly in using funds from his current account to offset his credit card balance.
I appreciate Mr M disputes the level of debt owed on his credit card, but having reviewed the 
file, Im satisfied there was an amount due. 
I say this because our service has been provided with a number of Mr Ms credit card 
statements. These show Mr M had an outstanding balance on this card dating back to 
September 2014 of approximately £1,100. The statements make it clear to Mr M that he 
needs to repay this amount. 
The subsequent statements from September 2014 onwards show that Mr M hadnt made 
repayments to this credit card, and as such the total amount hadnt reduced. Based on this 
Im satisfied that at the point RBS withdrew funds from his current account in March 2020 
there was still a balance outstanding. 
I also note Mr M hasnt disputed that he received some, if not all, of these statements, and 
as such Im satisfied, he was aware there was an amount (regardless if he agreed with it) 
due. 
As Im satisfied a debt was owed, Ive gone on to consider whether RBS acted fairly when 
offsetting money from Mr Ms current account onto his credit card.
Our investigator explained to Mr M that the right to setoff is a principle which is set out in 
various banking codes and regulations. It is a common term, and applies to most, if not all, 
retail banks. The right to setoff is also explained in RBS terms and conditions.
RBS has provided our service with Mr Ms terms and conditions. These say that RBS is 
entitled to use the right to setoff in certain circumstances. These say, if youve borrowed 
money from us (for example, through a loan, credit card or overdraft) and the money or the 
repayments are overdue for payment, we may take money from your account to repay some 
or all of the money you owe us (including any fees or interest).
Having read the above term, Im satisfied it is sufficiently clear in explaining to Mr M in what 
circumstances money may be used to pay off an existing debt. Im also satisfied having read 
this term that the circumstances of Mr Ms case give rise for RBS to rely on the right to 
offset. Namely, that Mr M had a debt with RBS, and that repayments were overdue. 
Mr M disputes RBS gave him sufficient notice before withdrawing funds from his current 
account. He says he never received any notification from RBS of its intention to set-off the 
money he owed.
RBS has provided our service with generic template letters which it says it wouldve sent to 
Mr M. It says it is unable to find copies of the actual letters it sent to Mr M. Ive read the 
generic letters which RBS has sent, and Im satisfied they are sufficiently clear in explaining 
that RBS may use its right to setoff to repay the existing debt.
RBS has also provided our service with an audit trail which confirm the date, and address 
the letters wouldve been sent to Mr M.I appreciate Mr M says he never received these letters, but where there is conflicting 
information, I have to make a decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say what I 
think is most likely to have happened. Considering that RBS has provided us with the audit 
trail, as well as the letter codes which match the templates, Im satisfied it is more likely than 
not these letters were sent to Mr M. I also note the address Mr M has given RBS, as well as 
our service are the same. So Im satisfied any correspondence which wouldve been issued 
by RBS, wouldve more likely than not been sent to the same address. 
As Im satisfied that RBS more than likely sent the letters to Mr M, it follows that Im satisfied 
it gave him sufficient notice of its intention setoff his existing debt. Im also satisfied that RBS 
gave Mr M sufficient time to come to an agreement regarding the outstanding credit card 
debt before it exercised its right to setoff. So for these reasons combined, Im satisfied RBS 
acted fairly in this instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman