DRN-3014169
The complaint
Miss K complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt give her correct advice so 
that she could improve her driving score on her telematics motor insurance policy. Miss K is 
represented in this matter by her mother, Mrs K. 
What happened
Miss Ks driving score dropped from good to average. Admiral told her that journey 
consistency was the main factor influencing her score. But Miss K thought this was 
contradictory with its also telling her to cut down on unnecessary trips. Miss K thought the 
average rather than good score had affected her premium price at renewal. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
telematics device was working correctly. She thought Admiral had reasonably responded to 
the pandemic by freezing driving scores between March 2020 and July 2020. She thought 
Admiral had reasonably provided advice on how Miss K could improve her score. She 
thought this meant balancing driving consistently throughout the week with not making 
unnecessary journeys. 
Mrs K replied that Miss K had been provided with contradictory advice and so wouldnt be 
able to improve her driving score. She thought Admiral should give her an additional 5% 
premium discount that she would have earned at renewal if her score had been good.    
Mrs K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that at renewal Miss K received a 25% premium discount based on her average 
driving score. If this had been good then the discount would have been up to 30%. Miss K 
reasonably wanted to improve her score and so she sought advice from Admiral on how to 
do this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think Admiral made it clear that Miss Ks score was based on a comparison with other 
drivers using the device. So average means within the average of the group. There are no 
exact parameters for good as they are comparative. I think it was reasonable for Admiral to 
decline to share the exact parameters of its driving behaviour measures as they are 
commercially sensitive. 
Admiral has shown us that there are multiple factors that determine the driving score on 
policies such as Miss Ks. Admiral wasnt able to identify the specific driving behaviour that 
led to the drop in Miss Ks score. So I think it gave her advice based on the data it had. In a 
webchat, it told Miss K that she could improve her score by, in her words:
1. Cutting down on unnecessary trips and spending less time at the wheel 
2. Staying within 5 miles to the risk address 
3. To spread my driving out over the week and weekend.
I think this was general advice given to drivers on how to improve their scores. But Miss K 
said she was already doing this. And when she asked for further advice she was told:
the main reason for this is your consistency. We find that people that drive regularly 
throughout the week and remain driving to a good standard consistently, are less likely to be 
involved in an accident. 
I can understand that Miss K felt she was adhering to government advice to stay at home at 
the time and this reduced her driving. But I cant reasonably hold Admiral responsible for the 
pandemic restrictions imposed at the time. I can see that it made allowances for them by 
freezing driving scores for several months. But I think it reasonably restarted them when 
restrictions lessened so as to measure driver behaviour in keeping with its policys terms and 
conditions.  
Miss K thought Admiral in telling her that driving consistency was important was telling her to 
drive more often. But I think it was telling her to spread out her driving over the week and 
weekend. 
Miss K said she used the car infrequently. The telematics guide states:
Your score reflects the way your vehicle is used consistently over the monitoring period, 
and how likely we feel you are to be involved in an accident or an insurance claim.
And I think it was reasonable for Admiral to think that drivers who drove infrequently may be 
at an increased risk of accidents. I think driving frequency and consistency needs to be 
balanced against not making unnecessary journeys. 
So I think Admiral gave Miss K fair and reasonable advice on how she could improve her 
driving score. I can see that her score improved following this advice, though not by enough 
to be included in the good ranking. So I cant say that Admiral has done anything wrong or 
needs to change Miss Ks driving score.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman