DRN-3412242
Complaint
Miss T has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Miss T with an initial loan for £2,300.00 in September 2015. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £136. Miss T repaid this loan early 
and in November 2015, Avant Credit provided Miss T with a second loan for £2,900.00. This 
loan was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £146. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ts complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Miss T with either of these loans. So he thought that Miss Ts complaint 
should be upheld. 
Avant Credit agreed on loan 1 but disagreed with our adjudicators findings on loan 2, so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
As the parties are in agreement with our adjudicators findings on loan 1 this decision is only 
looking at whether Avant Credit acted fairly and reasonably when providing Miss T with loan 
2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ts complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Miss T could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit may argue that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a relatively light 
touch assessment would have been proportionate here. But Im mindful that this was               
Miss Ts second loan with Avant Credit within a short period. And the information Avant 
Credit has itself provided suggests that Miss T didnt have the disposable income required to 
repay this loan. I dont understand how Avant Credit can accept that this was a problem for 
loan 1 but not loan 2 when Miss T was now expected to make a higher monthly payment.  
Furthermore, while Avant Credit says the purpose of this loan was recorded as debt 
consolidation, there is no indication of which debts Miss T was going to consolidate. Finally 
the credit check Avant Credit carried out also clearly demonstrated that Miss T had a history 
of high-cost and other payday lending. 
So Im persuaded by what Miss T has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than because 
she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, the results of Avant Credits affordability assessment and the suggestion Miss Ts 
disposable income wasnt enough to make the loan payments to loan 2 persuade me this 
wasnt the case. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ts existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss T. 
As Avant Credit provided Miss T with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss T has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss T lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Miss T
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Miss T by:
Refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss T paid on loan 2 (as well as loan 1 
which it has already agreed to do);
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss T to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Ts credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman