DRN-3633523
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she and her husband were mis-sold a holiday club membership and 
the loan used in part to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mrs G is 
represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call N.
What happened
In or about October 2010 Mrs G and her husband were contacted by a holiday business, 
which Ill refer to as C. They were told they had won a free holiday, which they took in April 
2011. During that holiday, they attended a presentation, following which they entered into an 
agreement for the membership of a holiday club. Their entitlement to the benefits of 
membership was based on the purchase of points. The purchase of the membership and of 
the points associated with it were funded in part by a loan from BPF and arranged through 
C. 
The loan was originally intended to repaid over 180 months, but it was in fact redeemed on 
24 June 2013. 
On 16 May 2019 N wrote to BPF on behalf of Mrs G. N said that, at the time of the sale of 
the holiday club membership and the loan, C did not have the necessary authorisation to act 
as a credit broker. BPF should therefore refund all sums paid under it. N later said that the 
terms of the holiday club membership had been misrepresented. As BPF had funded the 
membership under arrangements with C, it was liable for the misrepresentation. N also said 
that the loan created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mrs G was unable to resolve her complaint with BPF and N referred the matter to this 
service. Our investigator did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld. N did 
not accept that recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan agreement and associated paperwork are no longer available. I have however 
approached this complaint on the assumption that C acted as credit broker, as N says it did.  
When the loan was set up in April 2011, consumer credit broking did not require 
authorisation from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Credit brokers were required to 
hold a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), but credit broking did not become 
an activity which was authorised by the FCA until 1 April 2014. At that point, authorised 
credit brokers became subject to this services compulsory jurisdiction.  
Nevertheless, from 6 April 2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain 
complaints about OFT licensees, under what was then our consumer credit jurisdiction. Our 
own records indicate that C was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction from 7 May 
2009 until 31 March 2014. 
C would not have been recorded as a business coming under this services consumer credit 
jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer credit licence from the OFT. I am satisfied 
therefore that it was properly licensed as a consumer credit broker when the loan was 
arranged. Ns assertion that it needed FCA authorisation in April 2011 is not correct. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Because 
the loan documentation is not available, the exact relationship between BPF and C is not 
clear, but I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was set up as a result of 
pre-existing arrangements between the two and that section 75 could therefore apply. And 
statements made by C are to be taken as having been made on behalf of BPF.   
I must therefore consider the claims against C. N says that C misled Mrs G and her husband 
about the holiday club membership. Specifically, C said that the membership was more cost-
effective than package holidays, but that was not true. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mrs G and her husband at the time of 
the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mrs G and Mr G into the 
contract for the purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 25 April 2011. 
Mrs G did not however raise any complaint with BPF until May 2019, more than eight years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against C was 
made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against C is now out of time under the 
Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution of 
the complaint  having regard, amongst other things, to any relevant law. Given the real 
possibility that a court would say that a claim in misrepresentation against C would be time-
barred, I do not believe it would be fair to conclude that BPF should meet any such claim. 
Be that as it may, the information about what was said at the time of the sale is very limited 
and not at all detailed. So, even if I were to take a different view about the effect of any time 
limits, I would not be persuaded that there was any misrepresentation in this case. Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, N says that Mrs G seeks refunds of sums paid 
under the loan agreement. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case that was no later than June 
2013, when the loan was repaid in full and the loan account closed. N says that the limitation 
period ends twelve years from the end of the relationship; that does not however apply 
where  as in this case  the relief sought is the payment of money. 
I note that the claim under section 140A here was made a little less than six years after the 
loan had been repaid. Under the Limitation Act, however, time generally stops running when 
court action is started, not when the borrower contacts the lender to assert that they have a 
claim. 
Whatever a court might conclude about time limits, however, I do not believe there is any 
basis here on which I could fairly say that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship. 
I have explained above why N is mistaken about Cs authorisation to arrange the loan and 
why I do not believe a claim in misrepresentation has any real merit. N has said too that C 
did not disclose how much commission, if any, it received from BPF. In some cases, loans 
have been found to create an unfair relationship where large commissions have not been 
disclosed. I do not believe however that I can fairly conclude that that is the case here. The 
loan agreement was repaid a long time ago and the paperwork in respect of it has not been 
retained by Mrs G or by BPF; N has simply asserted that commission might have been paid, 
but has provided no evidence of that or that, if it was, it was excessive.  
 Conclusions 
I believe that C held the necessary consumer credit licence at the time the loan was made.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mrs G has a claim for misrepresentation 
against C. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant 
time limits in the Limitation Act. 
In my view, however, it is likely that any claim for misrepresentation and any claim under 
section 104A are now out of time or that there is insufficient evidence fairly to uphold them.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman