DRN-1808776
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has only offered to pay part of the 
claim she made under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to IPA include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs Ps annual non-select silver travel insurance policy - underwritten by IPA  was 
renewed in September 2018 (the policy). Shortly thereafter Mrs P went on holiday abroad. 
Whilst away, Mrs P became unwell with bronchitis and she required medical attention. She 
sought to make a claim on the policy to cover her medical costs. 
IPA concluded that she required treatment for a pre-existing medical condition  namely 
asthma  and cover for pre-existing medical conditions wasnt covered under the policy. It 
also said that Mrs P hadnt declared certain medical conditions before renewing the policy. 
Rather than declining the claim outright, it decided to carry out a retro-screening of her 
medical conditions on the basis that these had been declared prior to the policys renewal. 
It concluded that had Mrs P declared her medical conditions, she wouldve been offered a 
select silver policy which wouldve cost around £46 more. As the premium she paid for the 
policy equated to 29.20% of the premium she wouldve been charged, IPA offered to pay 
29.20% of the claim. It also offered to pay her £75 in compensation for the delay in 
acknowledging her claim for which it apologised. 
Mrs P didnt think that was fair. Unhappy, she complained to our Service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint; he concluded that IPA hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs P 
disagrees so Ive been asked to look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to acknowledge that IPA has said that it couldve declined Mrs Ps claim 
as the medical treatment she received whilst abroad related to her pre-existing medical 
conditions  which it says Mrs P didnt declare at the time of renewing the policy. However, I 
dont need to consider whether it wouldve been fair or reasonable for it to decline her claim 
outright because it decided to carry out a retro-screening on the basis that Mrs P had 
answered certain questions about her medical conditions correctly at the time of renewing 
the policy. And having done so, it offered to make a proportionate settlement of her claim.
Ive therefore focused on whether it was fair and reasonable for IPA to have proportionately 
settled Mrs Ps claim on that basis or whether, as Mrs P says, it shouldve paid her claim in 
full. 
When deciding this issue, Ive taken into account the law in the area  which sets out an 
insurers remedies where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly 
misrepresented the situation about things like their pre-existing medical conditions when 
taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance  or shortly before renewing a policy - theyll typically 
be asked questions about themselves (and anyone else who is to be insured under the 
policy) as well as the risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses that information to 
weigh up whether it wishes to cover those risks and how much it will charge for doing so. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty 
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an 
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to 
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances in which an insurer may be able 
to avoid the insurance contact  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. 
In the absence of this, and where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided 
with the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding whether Mrs P took reasonable care is to be done in light of all the 
relevant circumstances. That can involve several considerations including whether the 
questions she was asked at the time of renewing the policy were sufficiently clear.
IPA says it emailed Mrs P a few weeks prior to her annual travel insurance policy coming to 
an end in September 2018 inviting renewal of the policy. I havent been provided with a copy 
of the actual email IPA says Mrs P was sent but I have been given a template of the sort of 
email IPA says policyholders  including Mrs P  wouldve received.
As there is a regulatory obligation for certain information to be sent to policyholders prior to a 
policy being renewed, on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that this wouldve been 
sent to Mrs P. Particularly as IPA has provided us with a date stamp showing that Mrs Ps 
policy was renewed online on 28 August 2018 so Im persuaded that Mrs P did receive the 
renewal notice and renewed the policy online, answering certain questions in the process.
When Mrs P renewed the policy, amongst other questions, she was asked:
Within the last 5 years has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any 
medical condition (medical or psychological disease, sickness, condition, illness or 
injury) that has required prescribed medication or treatment including surgery, tests 
or investigations?
I refer to this as the medical question. 
Im satisfied that the medical question was clear, and the screenshot provided by IPA 
supports that Mrs P answered no to it.
IPA says Mrs P made a qualifying misrepresentation when answering the medical question 
and that she shouldve answered it yes. Im persuaded by what IPA says because looking 
at the medical notes provided Mrs P had been prescribed medication for certain medical 
conditions within the five years leading up to renewing the policy.
Had Mrs P answered yes to the medical question, IPA says she wouldve automatically 
been presented with additional questions (the follow up questions). It has provided us with a 
screenshot showing the follow up questions she wouldve been asked. Ive checked the way in which IPA has answered these questions as part of the retro-screening and Im satisfied 
theyve been answered accurately.
Had they been answered in this way at the time of the policy being renewed IPA says that a 
particular medical score wouldve been applied, and Mrs P wouldve been presented with a 
quote for a silver select policy. And based on that medical score IPA says the select silver 
annual policy wouldve cost around £46 more than the policy Mrs P bought. 
However, presented with this option, I see no reason to find that she wouldnt havent paid 
the additional premium for the upgraded policy, if automatically presented to her in this way.
Due to many price changes since the policy was taken out, IPA hasnt provided evidence to 
support what it says the medical score wouldve been based on the answers that shouldve 
been given by Mrs P to the additional questions which wouldve been asked when taking out 
the policy, or that this wouldve resulted in a corresponding increase in premium of around 
£46 for a select silver policy.
But given what I know about the factors taken into account when pricing travel insurance 
policies, Im satisfied its likely there wouldve been an uplift in the cost of the policy had the 
medical question and follow up questions been answered correctly. 
And in the absence of any further evidence to the contrary, I accept what IPA says. Whilst 
the adjusted premium represents over three times the amount of the premium Mrs P 
originally paid, the cost of the premium was relatively low to begin with. And given Mrs Ps 
recent medical history and how the additional questions shouldve been answered, I dont 
think the medical retro-screening score which IPA applied  and corresponding uplift in 
premium  was unreasonable in the circumstances of this particular case.
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs P only paid 29.20% of the correct premium. And I dont think 
IPA has acted unfairly by offering to proportionately settle the claim made on the policy and 
offering to pay 29.20% of the claim. 
Mrs P also says that during a call around 22 September 2018, IPAs representative 
confirmed to a doctor at the clinic shed been taken to, that it would be covering her medical 
costs. IPA says that its been unable to find any record of this call and theres no record of 
this having been agreed with the hospital. 
However, there was a call Mrs P had directly with IPAs representative shortly before being 
taken to the clinic. Mrs P says a doctor at the resort had referred her to a clinic local to 
where she was staying as shed been experiencing shortness in breath. An incident number 
was set up but in that call the representative doesnt mention anything about whether costs 
would be covered.  
So, based on the evidence Ive got, Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that 
IPA did confirm that costs would be covered in full around that time. And it would be unusual 
for an insurer to do so before validating the claim by, for example, obtaining copies of the 
medical history from the GP. 
IPA has accepted that it delayed providing Mrs P with an outcome to her complaint. Its 
apologised for this and offered to pay her £75 compensation. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity, so our Service doesnt have the power to look into whether IPA has acted 
unreasonably in the way in which it handled her complaint about her claim not being met in 
full, or the amount of compensation its offered her in respect of its accepted delay. My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman