DRN-2856025
The complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a PPI policy in 1997 when he arranged a mortgage. He paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The policy wouldve covered his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident, sickness or if he was made redundant.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I explain why below.
Mr H said that he didnt consent to the policy and didnt have any knowledge of it until much 
later. Halifax said that Mr H took the policy out in a branch but dont have any documentation 
from the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither Halifax nor Mr H have any 
documentation from the sale, considering this happened in 1997, some 24 years ago. So, I 
have no documentary evidence to consider. And I must give some thought to the way the 
passage of time can affect the accuracy of recall from events that happened 24 years ago. 
Whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as Mr H said, considering how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the 
complaint on this point. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this 
case, I think its more likely that Halifax wouldve made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional 
and that he chose to take it, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
 
Halifax says they recommended the PPI to Mr H. This meant Halifax needed to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
I think Halifaxs recommendation was right for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I explain why below.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, for example, any unusual employment terms or pre-
existing medical conditions.
Mr H told us he would not have received any sick pay from his employer if he was unwell. 
And Mr H told us he had no other means he could rely on in that event or if he lost his job. 
The PPI policy wouldve covered Mr H for up to 12 months if he couldnt work through 
accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. So, considering all of this, and the potentially 
serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on a home, I think Mr H couldve 
found the policy useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr H.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr H, Halifax also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
Halifax doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr H paid. My reasons are set out 
below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to certain types of credit taken out and still running at certain times. 
From the information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply to the 
date this credit was taken out and held until, so it falls outside of the scope for our 
consideration. So, I dont think Halifax have to refund any of the commission paid on the 
PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman