DRN-3235516
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I said: 
Mr Hs accounts with Lloyds were registered at an address in the European Union (EU). 
Lloyds says that because of the impact of Brexit, it couldnt provide the same services to 
customers living in the EU so took the decision to close their accounts.
Lloyds says it wrote to the address it had for Mr H in August 2020 and advised it would close 
his accounts towards the end of the year. Mr H has explained he didnt receive Lloyds letter 
and it came as a surprise when he found out what had happened.
Mr H has explained he moved back to the UK so wanted to use his accounts. Mr H 
complained and Lloyds sent him a final response. Lloyds wouldnt reopen Mr Hs account 
and said he could review options with another business.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H asked 
to appeal and said Lloyds had unfairly applied the terms and conditions governing his 
accounts when it made the decision to close them. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional 
decision in this case. I agree with the investigators view that Lloyds decision to close his 
accounts was fair, but Ive reached my decision for a different reason.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Lloyds says it took the decision to close Mr Hs accounts because he was registered as 
living in the EU and, as a result of Brexit, the services it had previously been able to offer 
was affected. The investigator said Lloyds decision was in line with the account terms. I can 
see the investigator quoted a section of the terms that said Lloyds could take the decision it 
the account holder left the UK or EU. But that section only applies to its Basic Account, not 
Mr Hs Classic Current Account.
Basic bank accounts operate differently to standard accounts, like the ones Mr H had. The 
circumstances under which a business can close a basic bank account are limited when 
compared with a normal bank account. The terms quoted by the investigator only apply to 
Lloyds basic bank accounts so arent relevant to the circumstances under which Mr Hs 
accounts were closed.
The relevant section for Mr Hs account says Lloyds can close an account for any reason by 
giving two months written notice. Ive looked at whether Lloyds followed this approach. 
Lloyds says it wrote to Mr H in August 2020 to notify him it would close his accounts. The 
accounts were closed more than two months later, so Im satisfied Lloyds did act in line with 
the terms.
Mr H has told us he didnt receive the closure notice Lloyds sent him in August 2020. I dont 
doubt what Mr H has told us. But Lloyds has sent systems evidence that shows it wrote to 
Mr H at the address it had on file for him in August 2020 as claimed. I think its more likely 
than not it wrote to Mr H as it claims.
I understand Mr H moved back to the UK and wanted to use his current account for 
everyday banking. Mr H asked our investigator for advice about setting up a new current 
account. We cant give advice, but Mr H may wish to contact Citizens Advice or look at its 
website which provides information on the subject.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im satisfied Lloyds did act in line with its terms and 
conditions when it closed his accounts. As I havent found Lloyds made mistakes or treated 
Mr H unfairly, I dont intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with new information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. We didnt receive any new information from either 
of the parties involved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Lloyds dealt with Mr Hs 
complaint fairly, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman