DRN-3817228
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about an employment claim he made on his Amtrust Europe Limited 
legal expenses policy, which Amtrust declined.
Mr B doesnt think this is fair.
All references to Amtrust in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on his Amtrust legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a 
claim against his former employer.
Amtrust considered the claim and declined it. They said the first in the series of events that 
gave rise to the claim happened before the insurance was in place and this was excluded by 
the policy. 
Mr B disagreed. He said his claim was for events that took place within the period of cover 
and that the information he gave as part of his claim that fell before the policy started was 
just background information. He also said he felt he was being penalised for being honest 
about the circumstances of his former employment. 
An investigator considered things. He concluded the event which led to the claim fell before 
the policy started and that Amtrust were entitled to turn the claim down in accordance with 
their policy terms. Because Mr B doesnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld for the same reasons set
out by our investigator.
Its a requirement of most legal expenses policies that any intended claim arises out of an
event which occurs during the period of insurance. Mr Bs policy is no exception. It provides 
cover where:
The Insured Event takes place in the Period of Insurance and within the Territorial Limits
Insured Event is defined as The event of the first of a series of events which may lead to a 
claim under this insurance. Only one Insured Event shall be deemed to have arisen from all 
causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or time.
As a general rule, you take out insurance cover for something which may or may not happen
in the future. So, in my judgment, it isnt unfair in principle for a legal expenses insurer to
exclude claims for things which started to happen before cover began. There are special
policies available which are designed to cover such disputes, but this isnt one of them.
Mr Bs policy with DAS started at the end of January 2019 and though Mr B says the event 
which gave rise to his claim happened during the period of insurance, I dont agree. Having 
considered all the documents hes submitted, and the chronology surrounding the claim he 
intended to make against his former employer, Im satisfied that the problems
he experienced have been ongoing for some time- and certainly before the insurance was in 
place. 
In particular, Mr B cited instances of inadequate training being given by his employer and 
feeling that he was being isolated, which led to his mental health deteriorating significantly. 
He also referred to a particular incident with two colleagues which he reported to his 
employer and referred to there being no investigation into it. Given the nature of the claims 
Mr B wanted to make against his employer, I think its unlikely that the events hes referred 
to are unrelated to the claims or that they dont at least form the first in a series of events 
that gave rise to them. And because those events happened before the insurance was in 
place, I cant say that it was unreasonable for Amtrust to turn down cover.
I know Mr B felt Amtrust should have discussed the matter with him before turning down 
cover, but they werent obliged to do so. And given there was no additional information Mr B 
couldve added that wouldve changed or clarified the position, I dont think Amtrust were 
wrong to turn down cover in this way.
I understand this decision will be disappointing for Mr B, particularly because he says he 
wasnt aware of the significance of the events hes cited before the policy was in place until 
some time later and after cover was taken out. But that doesnt in my view mean the events 
he's cited dont represent the first in the series of events that have given rise to a claim 
against his former employer.  And I have no doubt that Mr B would be seeking to rely on 
them in the claims hes made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman