DRN-2711650
The complaint
Mr E complains about Capquest Debt Recovery Limiteds actions when seeking to recover
a debt.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision, I said: 
In 2006 Mr Es credit card defaulted and was subsequently sold to another business (A). 
Mr E made regular repayments towards the outstanding debt via a third party debt service 
and was told it had been fully repaid around May 2016.
On 21 November 2017 Capquest was appointed to collect the debt by A. On 24 
November 2017 Capquest wrote to Mr E and said the outstanding balance was £228.27. 
Capquest asked Mr E to contact it and make repayments. On 28 November 2017 Mr E 
wrote to Capquest and asked it for a complete breakdown of the balance it says was 
owed.
Capquest wrote to Mr E and said it had contacted the original lender for information. On 
27 January 2018 Capquest sent Mr E copies a list of transactions for his credit card 
before it had been closed. The last transaction was in 2006 and showed an outstanding 
balance of
£1,864.98. Mr E responded on 31 January 2018 and pointed out that wasnt the 
information hed requested.
Capquest wrote to Mr E again on 6 February 2018 and said the statements showed the 
value of the debt when it was purchased by A and sent him a statement that showed the 
repayments he had subsequently made  bringing the outstanding balance down to 
£228.27 In May 2016.
On 8 February 2018 Mr E wrote to Capquest and asked why £177 of legal fees had been 
applied to his debt. Capquest responded on 16 February 2018 to say that A had obtained 
a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against Mr E on 7 March 2008. On 20 February 2018 
Mr E wrote to Capquest and no CCJ had been made or reported on his credit file by A. Mr 
E asked for a copy to be forwarded.
Capquest didnt respond to Mr Es request and on 17 May 2018 sent him a letter offering 
a partial settlement. No reference to the CCJ request was made. Mr E repeated his 
request,
forwarding a copy of his 20 February 2018 letter, but no response was received. Capquest
sent Mr E another partial settlement offer on 14 August 2018 to which Mr E responded on 
17 August 2018 requesting a full breakdown of the balance. Capquest responded with 
another set of statements showing the final outstanding balance was £228.27.
On 7 September 2018 Mr E again asked Capquest to explain why legal fees had been 
applied to his account on 10 March 2015 and that he was unaware of any legal 
proceedings. In November 2018 Capquest sent Mr E another partial settlement offer but 
didnt send him the information requested. Mr E followed up on 14 November 2018 and 
repeated his request for further information about the outstanding balance.
Capquest sent Mr E another partial settlement offer on 13 June 2019 and on 17 June 
2019 Mr E wrote back. He again explained that his records indicated the account had 
been repaid in full in 2016 and complained that since that time he hadnt been sent 
anything to show the outstanding balance owed was correct.
On 29 September 2019 Capquest responded to Mr Es complaint and said it had 
complied with his requests for a breakdown of the sums owed and that the legal costs 
related to a CCJ A had obtained via a firm of solicitors on 16 July 2008. Capquest said 
the CCJ had dropped off Mr Es credit file after six years had passed. Capquest didnt 
uphold Mr Es complaint and requested he make a payment of £228.27 to clear the 
outstanding balance.
On 3 October 2019 Mr E responded to Capquest and asked why legal fees for a CCJ 
obtained in 2008 were only added to the debt in March 2015. Mr E repeated his request 
for a copy of the CCJ and pointed out it hadnt been supplied despite various requests. Mr 
E asked Capquest to either provide a copy of the judgement or stop trying to collect the 
debt.
Capquest issued a follow up final response on 22 January 2020 and advised that due to 
the passage of time the CCJ document wasnt available. Capquest apologised for calling 
Mr E about the matter. The final response went on to say that Capquest had contacted 
the previous solicitors to ask about the legal fees. The solicitors responded to say the 
case was stayed, which meant the claim didnt proceed to a CCJ. Capquest agreed that 
the court costs shouldnt have been added to the account and removed them. Capquest 
agreed to waive the remaining £51.27 and closed Mr Es account. Capquest also sent Mr 
E a cheque for £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr E referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Capquest had dealt with Mr Es complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr E asked to appeal as he didnt feel the £200 compensation hed received fairly 
reflected the impact of how long the situation had gone on for or the distress and 
inconvenience caused. As Mr E asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out the majority of correspondence between Mr E and Capquest since it took over 
administration of the debt in November 2017. I think its fair to say that Mr E was quick to 
respond to Capquests letters, stating and restating his requests for further information to 
help him understand how an outstanding balance remained, despite the payment plan 
that completed in 2016. However, I didnt find the same from Capquest and can see that 
lots of Mr Es letters appear to have gone unanswered. There also appears to have been 
gaps of several months between Mr Es responses being sent and Capquest contacting 
him again. And, on several occasions, Capquests follow up letters were partial 
settlement offers, not responses to the information requested.I note Mr E asked for a breakdown of his outstanding debt but was initially only sent 
details of the transactions that formed part of the original debt. I cant see that Mr E ever 
asked Capquest for that information. He just wanted to understand why he still owed 
£228.27. As soon as Capqeust sent Mr E details of the payments he made as well as the 
legal costs added to his debt he responded and asked why £177 had been applied.
Mr E first asked Capquest about the legal costs on 8 February 2018 but Capquest didnt 
give him an answer until it issued its second final response, on 22 January 2020, just short 
of two years later. And, Capquest ultimately accepted that the legal costs shouldnt have 
been added to Mr Es account and refunded them. Whilst I understand Capquest wasnt 
the party that applied the costs to the debt in March 2015, I think it could have checked 
what happened with the solicitors at an earlier stage. I dont think it was fair that the costs 
took around two years to investigate and clarify.
Capquest repeatedly told Mr E that A had obtained a CCJ against him in 2008, a claim he 
consistently denied. Again, the issue was explained when Capquest took the step of 
contacting the solicitors involved. And, the explanation confirmed no CCJ was ever 
obtained by A. I can understand that being repeatedly and incorrectly told a business had 
obtained a CCJ would be upsetting and frustrating. Im pleased Capquest was ultimately 
able to give Mr E the correct information.
As Ive said above, there appear to have been periods of several months where Capquest 
didnt contact Mr E and, when it did, failed to respond to his letters. I think the service 
provided was poor at times and can understand Mr Es growing concerns and frustration.
Im pleased Capquest removed the court fees. The remaining outstanding balance of £51.27 
was written off, which is fair in the circumstances. Capquest also sent Mr E a cheque for
£200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr E has told us he spent 
many hours dealing with this matter and has lost out on income. I understand why Mr E 
feels the offer of £200 is too low and I agree it ought to be increased to a level that more 
fairly reflects the length of time the situation went on and the impact of the service 
provided.
Mr E has given us information about how much he could have earned during the time he 
spent on this matter. But, we dont generally make awards on that basis. Our awards are 
made on the basis of the impact caused by a business error on a consumer. Having 
taken everything Mr E and Capquest have sent us into account, I think the compensation 
awarded should be increased. I dont think the £200 award is fair in light of what 
happened. To resolve the complaint, I intend to tell Capquest to increase the 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr E from £200 to £400. In my view, 
that figure is fair and takes into account the longstanding nature of Mr Es complaint and 
impact on him.
I asked Mr E and Capquest to respond with any additional comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr E responded to say he felt the 
compensation amount should be higher but didnt provide any new information. 
Capquest responded to say it hadnt written back to Mr E after he made duplicate 
information requests. Capquest also said Mr E was liable for the legal costs incurred as a 
result of court action that hadnt proceeded.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Whilst I understand Mr E feels the level of compensation awarded should be higher, I remain 
of the view that £400 fairly reflects the impact of Capquests actions, in line with the findings I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
Capquests comments and copies of the correspondence it sent Mr E havent persuaded me 
to change my view on how to resolve this complaint. Whilst Capquest says it didnt respond 
to duplicate information requests Mr E made, I have to take into account that he repeatedly 
asked for evidence a CCJ had been obtained. Capquest, in turn, repeatedly claimed a CCJ 
existed in Mr Es name without providing any proof. Ultimately Capquest accepted no CCJ 
was ever obtained against Mr E. So I dont agree its fair to say Mr Es request for evidence 
of the CCJ Capquest claimed was obtained were duplicates of earlier letters. 
Capquest says Mr E was liable for the legal fees despite the fact no legal action was taken, 
but it hasnt clearly explained why. And, Capquest has provided emails from the solicitors in 
question from August 2016 that say the outstanding balance shouldve been reduced by 
£177, representing the legal fees, which wouldve left an outstanding balance of around £51. 
I havent seen any new information that makes me think Capquest was acting fairly by 
attempting to recover legal fees from Mr E in this case.
As I havent been sent any new information that changes my view on how to fairly resolve Mr 
Es complaint, Im going to proceed in line with the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I still think this complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to 
pay Mr E a total of £400 (less £200 if the original cheque sent was cashed) for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman