DRN-3843064
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way in which AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled a claim under 
a group private medical insurance policy she had the benefit of - and its decision to decline a 
claim. 
What happened
Ms M joined a group private medical insurance policy, via her employer on 15 September 
2020 (the policy). The policy is underwritten by AXA. Ms M had several issues with the 
policy, so contacted AXA shortly thereafter. Her name had been misspelt, her dependents 
werent detailed on the policy, and she was unable log onto the online portal.
AXAs representative contacted Ms M at the end of September 2020 about setting up her 
account and continued to discuss a claim Ms M wanted to make under the policy. During this 
call Ms M was asked questions relating to the claim she wanted covered. 
Subsequently, AXA requested  and considered upon receipt - further medical records from 
Ms Ms GP and medical team. And having considered everything, decided to decline the 
claim on the basis that the medical condition Ms M was claiming for was pre-existing.
Unhappy with the decision to decline the claim and the overall service shed received; Ms M 
raised her concerns with AXA. And after AXA maintained its decision Ms M brought her 
complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ms M provided further comments and 
medical evidence but, ultimately, the recommendation not to uphold her complaint was 
maintained. Ms M disagreed so I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms M for taking the time to extensively set out all her points and why 
she thinks AXA hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in the way its handled her claim. 
Im aware that Ive only summarised her complaint in my own words and Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules that govern our service allow me 
to do so as were an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment 
on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome here.
AXA has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle claims fairly and promptly 
 and mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. 
AXA declined Ms Ms claim for treatment because Ms M had the benefit of a moratorium 
policy. And it concluded that the treatment Ms M wanted covered related to a pre-existing 
medical condition. 
The policy terms and conditions reflect at clause 3.4 (starting at page 24) under the heading 
- how your membership works with pre-existing conditions and symptoms of them:
Health insurance is usually designed to cover treatment of new medical conditions 
that begin after you join. Your cover for treatment of conditions you were aware of or 
had already had when you joined depends on the type of cover your group has 
chosen and what you told us about your medical history when you joined.
It goes on to say:
We call conditions you were aware of when you joined pre-existing conditions
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
You have received medication, advice or treatment in the five years before 
the start of cover, or
You have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your 
cover: whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
It then explains the moratorium:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for treatment of 
medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
Youve been a member for two years in a row; and
Youve had a period of 24 consecutive months since you joined that have been 
trouble-free from that condition.
Treatment is defined by the policy as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury
Ms Ms policy started on 15 September 2020 and the claim she wanted cover for related to 
investigative tests regarding concerns about her right breast, and subsequent treatment. 
Having considered the medical evidence and what Ms M told AXA on 30 September 2020, I 
dont think AXA has unfairly concluded that her claim related to a pre-existing condition as 
defined by the policy - or related to treatment of medical problems shed had in the five years 
before 15 September 2020. Ill explain why.
The consultant surgeons letter dated October 2019 (so almost a year before the policy 
started for Ms M) reflects she had noticed a lump in her right breast four months ago. Shed 
had an ultrasound scan and core biopsy which reported breast inflammation. Although the 
consultant says that they were unable to feel any suspicious or discrete lumps in either 
breast or any lymphadenopathy, a mammography and breast ultrasound scan was arranged. 
No suspicious lesions were found but, importantly, the letter concludes: in view of her family 
history and her recent history of inflammatory changes in the right breast on recent core 
biopsyI have arranged for [Ms M] to have a mammogram in one yearwhen her full family 
history risks would be assessed.
Ms Ms more recent consultant breast and endocrine surgeon has provided a letter to our 
service dated September 2022 explaining the different ways of diagnosing breast cancer. Its reflected that given Ms Ms age she wouldnt be asked to attend mammograms by the NHS 
at regular intervals. However, given her family history of breast cancer, she would be 
recalled annually for a mammogram, and she merely attended the mammogram 
appointment around a week before the commencement of the policy as this was her annual 
invitation (the September 2020 mammogram). 
However, I dont think thats entirely right given the conclusions of the consultants letter 
October 2019, above. I think a further reason for the September 2020 mammogram was also 
to do with the inflammatory changes in the right breast identified in 2019. So, although Ms M 
may have gone for the September 2020 mammogram not suspecting she may have cancer, 
in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think AXA has unfairly concluded that the 
September 2020 mammogram amounted to treatment (as it was a diagnostic test) which 
took place shortly before the policy started. And it was this diagnostic test which ultimately 
led to further investigation/treatment taking place which she wanted covered under the 
policy. 
During a conversation that took place between Ms M and one of AXAs representatives 
dated 30 September 2020 (so around two weeks after the policy started) Ms M also 
explained, when asked, that shed had a lump in her right breast the year before. She says 
further tests revealed everything was fine and some months later the lump disappeared. She 
goes on to say that she started to experience pain (in her breast) on and off but it had got 
worse in the last month or so. When AXAs representative explained that as shed had the 
breast pain for a month that would be before the joining date and so would be pre-existing 
under the terms of the policy, Ms M explained that the pain could be for many reasons. She 
also said she couldnt confirm the exact date she experienced the pain, it couldve begun 
when the policy started. 
I know Ms M mentioned during the call that she didnt expressly say that shed experienced 
the pain before 15 September 2020 but I dont think AXA has unfairly relied upon what she 
said about the pain in her breast getting worse in the last month or so, as likely to have been 
before the policy started. The call took place at the end of September 2020 and I think its 
reasonable to conclude  based on what Ms M said  that that shed experienced increased 
pain in her right breast before the policy began. 
So, even if Ms M didnt know about the results of the September 2020 mammogram by the 
time the policy started  and that she was only made aware that the results of the 
mammogram werent entirely normal at an appointment with her consultant later in 
September 2020 and after the policy started - based on the medical evidence and the 
information provided by Ms M set out above, I think AXA fairly and reasonably declined her 
claim.  
Ms M needed treatment shortly after the policy started and hadnt been a member of the 
group policy for two years. Im satisfied AXA has fairly and reasonably concluded that the 
investigative tests and treatment she claimed for was related to a condition shed received 
medication, advice or treatment about in the five years before the start of cover. Further, 
shed experienced symptoms in the five years before the start of your cover  even though 
the condition hadnt been diagnosed.
When making this finding, Ive taken in account all of Ms Ms points including what shes said 
about AXA giving different - and further - reasons to decline her claim, and concerns shes 
raised about how the way the call on 30 September 2020 was handled by AXAs 
representative. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call. It does appear that the call wasnt pre-arranged, so Ms 
M hadnt been expecting it. However, shes asked towards the start of the call whether it was convenient to talk, and Ms M confirmed that it was. And the call was made in response to an 
email that Ms M had sent. Having listened to the call, I dont think the representative unfairly 
pressured Ms M in any way by the questions asked or misrepresented what she said. 
Ms M is unhappy that the call on 30 September 2020 was recorded - and that the 
representative used and shared medical information - without her consent. Shes also 
unhappy with AXAs decision to not delete the recording of the call or notes about medical 
issues obtained without her consent. She has been informed by our investigator of the 
organisation she can make a complaint to, about those issues. 
AXA did email Ms M with different reasons for declining her claim. For example, on 13 
November 2020 she was told that the claim had been declined because shed been aware of 
the condition (or its symptoms) prior to the policy starting. And she was later told by an email 
of the same date that the claim was declined because her GP and medical team confirmed 
the symptoms to be pre-existing prior to the join date of the policy.
Whilst it may have been preferable for both reasons to be set out in the same 
correspondence, whether those reasons were set out separately or in the same 
correspondence, I think Ms M wouldve been disappointed and upset about the decision 
taken either way. Ultimately, I dont think this impacted the decision taken by AXA to decline 
the claim. And for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that its decision was fair and 
reasonable. 
AXA confirmed in its email dated 17 November 2020, responding to Ms Ms concerns about 
the decision taken to decline the claim and receiving different reasons, that it stood by both 
reasons. It did accept that it shouldve clarified that the decision taken to decline the claim 
had been based on information provided by Ms M, the GP and medical team at the hospital. 
Although the medical report obtained by GP didnt detail any symptoms Ms M was 
experiencing in her right breast before taking out the policy, Im satisfied that AXA was 
simply clarifying the information it had in its possession and had considered to decline the 
claim. It also clarified the dates of the medical evidence it felt was particularly relevant. 
Ive also thought about whether AXA has acted unfairly by wanting to obtain further medical 
evidence in order to assess Ms Ms claim and whether it was covered under the policy  
after it received Ms Ms GPs completed form, answering questions relevant to her claim. 
However, given the information provided by Ms M during the call on 30 September 2020, I 
dont think AXA acted unreasonably by asking Ms M to provide consent to request further 
medical history from her GP. Nor do I think AXA unfairly notified Ms M that it was unable to 
assess her eligibility for treatment until it had received the information requested from her 
GP. So, although there was a delay of several weeks between the date of Ms Ms claim and 
AXAs decision to decline it, I dont think that was AXAs fault. And upon receipt of the 
information, Im satisfied it promptly notified Ms M of its claims decision.
I know that Ms M will be very disappointed by my decision and that she says she has 
incurred significant costs, paying for certain treatment herself. I am sorry for everything shes 
been through, but I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has handled her 
claim (and the decision taken to decline it). 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman