DRN-3554030
The complaint
Mr Ls complained that Payment Protection Services Ltd, trading as Payment Protection 
Scotland (PPS) havent kept him up to date on a claim they made on his behalf for a refund 
of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2019, Mr L asked PPS to act for him in trying to recover PPI hed paid in the past.  
PPSs initial searches identified hed bought PPI from various businesses, including one Ill 
call B.  PPS submitted a claim to B.  B rejected it in November 2020.  Mr L understood the 
rejection was based on the fact B couldnt find a policy in his name.
Shortly after this, Mr L found a certificate of insurance, proving hed had PPI.  He sent a copy 
to PPS and asked them to send it to B to continue his claim.
Mr L says he received two updates after this, but his claim hasnt been concluded.  And he 
didnt hear anything at all from PPS after July 2021  nor have they replied to his calls or 
emails.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with this and complained to our service.  We passed the complaint to 
PPS and asked them to look into it.  But Mr L reported he heard nothing from PPS and 
asked us to investigate.  Before our investigator reached a view on whether PPS had treated 
Mr L fairly, PPS wrote to us about his complaint.  
PPS said theyd pursued his claim in line with their processes.  But they should have 
referred Bs rejection of the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Theyd not done 
that due to a combination of an increase in claims caused by the FCA imposing a claims 
deadline and the Covid 19 pandemic, which resulted in their office being closed.
PPS said they still think B should consider Mr Ls claim and they offered to pursue that for 
him without charging a fee, even if the claim were successful.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded PPS needed to do more than 
theyd offered to resolve it.  She noted Mr L has been in direct contact with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to try and pursue the claim further.  So she didnt think it would be fair 
in any event for PPS to charge him if its successful.
And the investigator noted theres no guarantee the claim will be successful  so the 
monetary value of their offer to Mr L may be £0.  And, on the basis she thought Mr L had 
been poorly served by PPS, she thought they should pay him £200 compensation.
Mr L was happy to accept this amount.  But PPS havent responded to the investigators 
view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from what Ive read that Mr L feels he should receive a refund from B.  Its not my 
role to decide that.  Im looking at whether PPS have treated him fairly in the way they 
pursued that refund on his behalf.
It seems both parties agree matters progressed as they should have done in the early 
stages of the claim.  But things went wrong after B rejected Mr Ls claim based on their 
failure to find he had a policy and Mr L produced evidence that he did, in fact, have PPI.  
Since that time (November 2020) Mr L says he received only two updates.  And hes had 
nothing at all since July 2021.
Mr L has provided copy emails to support what hes told us.  Ive no reason to doubt what 
hes said.  Nor has the limited evidence received from PPS suggested what hes told us isnt 
true.
So Im satisfied that Mr L has been left not knowing the position in respect of his claim, even 
though he asked PPS to pursue this for him.  Hes now had to take matters into his own 
hands because he cant get information from PPS.  I dont think thats fair.
Putting things right
As our investigator noted, PPS have accepted they could have dealt better with the claim, by 
referring it to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Theyve offered to pursue that for Mr L 
without charge, even if thats successful.
Ive thought about this.  I accept some delay in progressing the case was inevitable because 
of the pandemic.  But the failures in service occurred after November 2020  after the most 
severe lockdowns.  And during the period when Mr L has had no contact, there have been 
no restrictions in place.  So I think its fair Mr L should be compensated for not receiving 
information.
And I agree with our investigator it isnt enough for PPS to offer to pursue the case now at no 
cost.  Due to their lack of action, Mr L has contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service 
himself  so much of the work has been done.  And PPS would only be entitled to a fee if the 
claim is successful  so the offer may be of no value to Mr L.  
But hes clearly been worried about the pursuit of the claim, to the extent hes now dealing 
himself with something he asked PPS to do for him.  So, not only do I think PPS should 
waive any entitlement they may have to a fee in respect of the PPI claim against B, I also 
agree with the investigator they should pay Mr L £200 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about Payment Protection 
Services Ltd, trading as Payment Protection Scotland and directing PPS to:
Waive any entitlement to fees they may have if Mr Ls claim against B for a refund of 
PPI is successful; and
Pay Mr L £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman