DRN-3724964
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their private medical 
insurance claim and wont refund the policy premiums. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr M had private medical insured by Aviva and its predecessor for many years. In 
November 2021 Mr M called Aviva as Mrs M wanted to make a claim for a back problem. 
During the call Mr M told Aviva that they lived abroad. 
Aviva declined the claim. It said Mrs and Mr M werent covered by the policy as they didnt 
meet the policy definition of member because they lived abroad. Aviva cancelled the policy 
and refunded the policy premium from 30 November 2021 when Mrs and Mr M had told it 
they lived abroad. Aviva wouldnt refund the full policy premiums as under the policy terms 
Mrs and Mr M needed to tell it about changes in their circumstances as soon as possible and 
they hadnt done so.
Mrs and Mr M complained to us. They said in 1996 they told Avivas predecessor they 
planned to spend time abroad and cover was agreed but Aviva said it had no record of that 
agreement. Mrs and Mr M want Aviva to refund all the policy premiums or for the insurance 
cover to continue when they are in the UK. 
Our investigator recommended Aviva refund the premiums from the date the policy definition 
of member changed in 2017 to the date of the policy cancellation in 2021. But as Mrs and 
Mr M had been given sufficient notice of the definition change and didnt contact Aviva it 
didnt need to pay interest on the refund. 
Mrs and Mr M accepted our investigators recommendation. Aviva didnt accept and wants 
an ombudsmans decision. In summary it added:
Our investigator had said if Mrs and Mr M had contacted Aviva immediately after the 
change in policy definition in 2017 its likely Aviva would have cancelled the policy 
then but that was a hypothetical scenario.
It sold the annual policies on the information it had on the assumption it was exposed 
to risk and that Mrs and Mr M lived at the UK address they gave. It was only in 2021 
that Mrs and Mr M told it they didnt live in the UK. 
For the policy renewals in 2017 and 2018 the policy definition of member had 
changed so that Mrs and Mr M had to permanently live in the UK. But for the policy 
renewals in 2019 and 2020 the definition changed again so that a member had to 
live in the UK for six months or more each year. Aviva asked whether Mrs and Mr M 
had shown they didnt reside in the UK for 6 months or more after the renewals in 
2019 and 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant industry rules and good practice. Ive also taken into 
account the terms and conditions that applied throughout the time the policy was in force 
and the notifications Aviva sent to Mrs and Mr M before the policy terms and conditions 
about the definition of a member changed.
I have to decide whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably and I dont think it did. I think 
Aviva needs to refund the policy premiums to Mrs and Mr M as our investigator 
recommended. So I partly uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was an annual contract of insurance which could be renewed if both parties 
agreed. Aviva could decide what risks it wanted to insure and it could also alter the terms 
and conditions of the policy at renewal. It needed to make sure that important changes to the 
policy terms and conditions were highlighted to Mrs and Mr M.  
Aviva said the policy terms and conditions relevant for the policy renewal in May 2017 saw 
the introduction of a UK residency requirement. The four page flyer headed policy update 
Aviva sent to Mrs and Mr M for that renewal said:
Who can be a member?
We have made a change to condition 1. Who can be a member?. Members must 
permanently live in the UK to be covered on the policy.
At the policy renewal in May 2018 the policy definition of member remained the same as 
the 2017 policy definition.
At the policy renewal in May 2019 there was another change in the policy definition of 
member. The four page flyer headed policy update sent to Mrs and Mr M for that renewal 
said:
Changes to conditions
Who can be a member
Weve updated the Who can be a member condition to clarify who is eligible to be 
covered under Healthier Solutions. We have clarified that members must live in the 
UK for 6 months or more of each year.
At the policy renewal in May 2020 the policy definition of member remained the same as 
the 2019 policy definition.
At the policy renewal in May 2021 there was another change to the policy definition of 
member. The four page policy update flyer sent to Mrs and Mr M for that renewal said:
Changes to policy
conditions
Who can be a member
The terms have been updated to make it clearer as to what the residency 
requirements are for a person to be eligible to be covered under the policy. Members 
must lawfully reside in the UK and intend to continue to reside in the UK for the 
duration of the policy year. If this changes, then we may need to cancel your cover as 
it may not be lawful for us to continue to cover you and if this is the case then any 
cancellation will be effective from the time your circumstances changed
Mrs and Mr M told us that since before 2017 they have lived in the UK for less than three 
months a year. Thats supported by the information Mr M gave Aviva in the November 2021 
call when he told Aviva he and his wife lived abroad. Avivas final response letter says in the 
call Mr M told it he aimed to spend less than three months a year in the UK otherwise he 
would be subject to UK tax. I accept what Mr Ms said about he and his wife living in the UK for less than three months a year. That means as from the 2017 policy renewal they havent 
met any of the three different policy definitions of member from 2017 to 2021.
I think Aviva gave Mrs and Mr M clear information about the changes in the policy definition 
of member and the relevant policies are clear that Mrs and Mr M should have told Aviva 
about any change in their circumstances. It wasnt until 2021 that they told Aviva they didnt 
live in the UK.  
But the important point is that as from the 2017 policy renewal Mrs and Mr M didnt meet the 
policy definitions to be an eligible member of the policy and, as they werent eligible for 
cover under the policy, from that date Aviva carried no risk of them making a successful 
claim. From the 2017 policy renewal Mrs and Mr M were paying premiums for a policy which 
was never going to cover them. In the circumstances I think the fair and reasonable outcome 
is for Aviva to refund to Mrs and Mr M the premiums they paid from the date of the 2017 
policy renewal to the date the 2021 policy was cancelled. Aviva has already refunded any 
premiums Mrs and Mr M paid for cover after the date of cancellation.
As I think Mrs and Mr M were given clear information that they needed to tell Aviva about a 
change in their circumstances and didnt I cant reasonably require Aviva to pay interest on 
the premiums Im saying it must refund.
Aviva has said its hypothetical as to whether it would have cancelled the policy at the 2017 
renewal if it had known Mrs and Mr M no longer met the policy definition of member. Given 
that Aviva cancelled the policy as soon as it knew in 2021 that Mrs and Mr M didnt meet the 
definition of member I think its highly likely it would have cancelled the policy if it had 
known in 2017. But even if Aviva wouldnt have done so my decision remains the same for 
the above reasons. 
Putting things right
Aviva must refund to Mrs and Mr M the policy premiums they paid from the date of the 2017 
policy renewal to the date of the policy cancellation in 2021.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to refund to Mrs and Mr M 
the policy premiums they paid from the date of the 2017 policy renewal to the date of the 
policy cancellation in 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman