DRN-3044718
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited wrote to someone 
they shouldnt have about a joint life policy they have with them. 
What happened
The policy Mr and Mrs B took out with Prudential in 1997 was set up in a trust. Mr and Mrs B 
were automatically made trustees for that trust, and they added a third person as an 
additional trustee. 
From 1997 to 2020, Prudential only sent details about the policy to Mr and Mrs B. But in 
2020, they sent a statement to all of the trustees. This has ultimately led to the third trustee 
retiring their position. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Prudential, saying they felt the contact with the third trustee had 
changed the terms of the policy. Prudential said it hadnt, and explained theyd updated one 
of their systems, which meant they could now write to all trustees, rather than just Mr and 
Mrs B. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs B brought the matter to us. Our investigator found 
the information given to the third trustee was in line with what they were entitled to see, as 
one of the legal owners of the policy that Mr and Mrs B set up. She found no change to the 
terms of the agreement with Prudential. 
Unhappy with that view, Mr and Mrs B have asked for the case to be looked at again. So its 
come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see Prudential havent done what Mr and Mrs B were expecting them 
to. But I cant see that Prudential ever said they wouldnt contact all of the trustees about the 
policy. Or that they could have known thered be a problem when they did. That leads me to 
the decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Our investigator explained how the policy Mr and Mrs B took out with Prudential is owned by 
the trust they set up to handle it. That would usually make it reasonable for any of the 
trustees to be given details about the policy, if they wanted to see them. So I find it was 
reasonable for Prudential to start with the assumption thered be no problem sending the 
policy details to all of the trustees in 2020. 
But I take on board Mr Bs point  such contact was different to what had happened for the 
previous 23 years the policy had been in place. To Mr B, that proves there was a specific 
agreement with Prudential  beyond general trust rules  that said they wouldnt contact the 
third trustee. 
In their response to this complaint, Prudential said an upgrade to their system led to the 
change in contact. That suggests it was a choice in system design  rather than any specific 
agreement with Mr and Mrs B  that meant thered been no contact previously with the third 
trustee.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs B for any records that showed thered been a specific 
agreement, but they didnt have any. Prudential have said they dont have any either. 
Prudential have shown us some documents from 1997 that set up the policy. But these dont 
show any special instruction or specific agreement limiting contact with the third trustee.
Prudential have also noted that discussions about how involved a third trustee would be with 
the policy  beyond whats in the general terms of the trust  would probably have been 
between Mr and Mrs B and the adviser who sold them the policy. 
That adviser wasnt directly part of Prudential  they appear to have been an independent 
adviser. So Prudential would only really know about what was agreed with Mr and Mrs B if 
the adviser told them about it. I cant see anything in the documents weve been sent that 
shows they did. 
All of that means I cant see anything that gave Prudential cause to question the assumption 
that thered be no problem sending the policy details to all of the trustees. That confirms my 
decision that it was a reasonable assumption for them to make, and act on the way they did. 
My final decision
Given my reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman