DRN-3825952
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy and thereafter cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mr N had an accident and called Admiral to make a claim on is policy. He advised the claims 
handler that his blood alcohol level was 47 micrograms when he was breathalysed by the 
police at the scene. Admiral declined his claim because it said Mr Ns roadside breathalyser 
test found he was over the prescribed alcohol limit to drive. It also gave him notice that it 
would be cancelling his policy.
Mr N complained because he says he was taken to the hospital following the accident, and a 
blood test was carried out which he says showed he wasnt over the legal limit. Admiral said 
it hadnt been able to get information on the blood test, but it didnt think this would have 
changed its decision. Admiral also said as Mr N holds a civil contract with it, the standard of 
proof is different to what would be considered in court or by the police.
Mr N didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. He says as the blood test came back 
negative, legally he wasnt found to be drink driving, unfit to drive or to have failed to provide 
a sample at the roadside. Mr N says hes lost his job as he no longer has a car and he is 
also unhappy Admiral charged him an additional months premium before cancelling the 
policy. He added that any new insurance policy he takes out now will be very expensive due 
to the fact that he has a cancellation on his record. He said he wanted us to reverse the 
cancellation and ask Admiral to pay the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They thought Admiral could rely 
on the roadside breathalyser test which was taken at the scene of the incident. They said 
they hadnt seen any evidence of the blood test and when it was taken, but if Mr N was to 
provide the evidence, they would consider it.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said the blood test was taken on the day of the accident, and the results could have been 
obtained if Admiral had used the police reference he provided. He doesnt think the 
breathalyser is accurate and he says it is used as an indicator of whether a person requires 
a further test. He also says he had an interview and was not found to have been unfit to 
drive, and the accident was caused by the elements. 
On 9 November 2022 I issued my provisional decision in which I said:
I understand from what Mr N told us, this has been a difficult period and the cancellation of 
his policy impacted him greatly. Im sorry to hear Mr N lost his job and of the financial 
difficulties he faced after having his claim declined and his policy cancelled. Considering the 
circumstances Mr N is in, I appreciate the importance of this complaint to him. However, I 
must put aside my feelings of empathy and consider his complaint impartially. Having done 
so, I agree with our investigators outcome and for similar reasons. I know this will come as a 
disappointment, but Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy state that no cover would be provided:
"If an accident happens while any insured person is driving and: 
 is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs 
is driving while unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise 
fails to provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, without 
lawful reason. 
No cover under the policy will be given and we will cancel your policy.
This means if Mr N was found to be over the legal limit for alcohol, Admiral is entitled to 
decline his claim and cancel his policy. Ive thought about whether Admirals decision was in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and if its decision was fair and reasonable. 
The legal alcohol limit in the UK is 35 micrograms, and Mr N told Admiral the breathalyser 
test gave a reading of 47 micrograms at the side of the road.
Mr N accepts that he was found to be over the legal limit when he was breathalysed at the 
scene of the accident.  Nevertheless, Mr N also says, and I have no reason to doubt him, 
that the results of the blood test which he had when he was taken to hospital after the 
accident, came back under the legal limit. As a result, the police chose not to prosecute. Mr 
N believes this means that legally he wasnt considered to be drink driving and that Admiral 
should not have cancelled his policy and declined his claim. 
Although I understand Mr Ns argument, the terms and conditions of his policy dont state he 
needed to be prosecuted or found guilty in court for his policy to be cancelled and the claim 
declined. The terms say Admiral can do this if he was found to be over the prescribed 
alcohol limit- and Mr N accepts the breathalyser test showed that he was over the limit. 
Given how much over the limit this was, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to have 
relied on these results.
Furthermore, Admiral has said, and I agree, that the standard of proof for criminal conviction 
is higher than the civil standard which is what an insurer requires to decline a claim under a 
contract of insurance. In a criminal court the standard of proof is beyond a reasonable doubt 
meaning that a degree of certainty is required for a criminal conviction. An insurer can make 
a decision based on the balance of probabilities i.e that something is more likely to have 
happened than not, which is a lower standard. 
Mr N doesnt think breathalyser tests are accurate, but Ive not seen any evidence to support 
this. Even if the police decide to carry out further testing following an over limit reading on a 
breath test, I dont think that means the result of the breathalyser from the scene is 
inaccurate or unreliable. Therefore, based on what we have seen, on balance, I think the 
breathalyser test was accurate. Ultimately, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to 
have relied on the results of the breath test carried out at the scene of the accident.
Mr N thinks Admiral should have obtained the results of the blood test from the police, but I 
dont think it had to. It said obtaining the results wouldnt have changed the decision it 
reached, and I think what it said is reasonable. I say this because, even if the results show 
Mr N was below the limit when the blood sample was taken and processed, I dont think that 
means he wasnt over the alcohol limit when the accident happened- which is what the policy 
requires. I think its worth noting, blood alcohol levels will decrease over time once youve stopped drinking, so I dont think its unusual for the blood test to report a lower blood alcohol 
level by the time its administered, compared to immediately after the accident occurred. 
Mr N has said the police stated the accident was caused by the wet weather at the time, and 
he wasnt found to have been unfit to drive. I dont think that changes things as Admiral 
declined the claim on the basis Mr N was over the prescribed alcohol limit when the accident 
happened. And as I said above, I thought this was in line with the policy terms. 
Overall, Im satisfied Admirals decision to decline Mr Ns claim was fair and reasonable and 
in line with its policy terms. 
If the general conditions of the policy are broken, the terms and conditions say Admiral can 
cancel your policy at any time by sending seven days' notice in writing to your last known 
address. As it thought Mr N was driving while over the prescribed alcohol limit, I dont 
think its decision to cancel his policy was unreasonable. 
When Admiral wrote to Mr N informing him it had declined his claim, it also gave him two 
weeks notice it would be cancelling his policy. Mr N thinks it was unfair of Admiral to have 
taken a premium payment just prior to cancelling the policy. However, Admiral confirmed the 
date of the last payment taken from Mr Ns account and this was over three weeks before 
the policy was cancelled. So, Im satisfied Admiral treated him fairly. 
In light of all this, I find Admiral acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and I wont ask it to 
do anything differently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman