DRN-2691943
The complaint
Mr I says Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) acted unfairly in not renewing his 
motor insurance policy in 2021.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill concentrate on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All insurers are entitled to decide what risks theyre willing to insure. I think RSA acted 
reasonably in 2021 when it decided that it didnt want to continue to provide cover to Mr I. In 
the previous year, five claims were logged on the policy. That made 12 claims during the 
three and a half years in which it had insured Mr I to drive his mothers car, at a cost to RSA 
of over £70,000. RSA has shown that there are limitations in its rules which mean a certain 
number of claims (or the cost of claims over a certain sum) will lead to cover being declined. 
I cant share the specific details with Mr I as theyre business-sensitive and confidential. 
Mr I has told us about his familys personal circumstances. I have great sympathy for the 
situation hes had to face and the many problems he has currently. Weve advised Mr I about 
some organisations that may be able to help him with these. I know its essential for Mr I to 
have insurance so he can drive a car under the Motability scheme. Otherwise, he cant help 
his parents as hes done in the past. But we cant instruct insurers to take on risks they wont 
accept. In 2020 RSA overturned an earlier decision it made not to provide cover. But it only 
did so due to Mr Is very difficult situation, and the new cover was based on a high premium 
and a high policy excess. At the time, RSA had hoped for fewer claims to be made on the 
policy going forward. As I think RSA has acted reasonably, I cant uphold Mr Is complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
