DRN-4331695
The complaint
Mr J complains that Listers Group Limited, trading as Listers Toyota (who Ill call Listers) 
misrepresented a finance agreement they brokered for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Misrepresentation is an untrue statement of existing fact or law made by one party to 
another party that induced that party to enter into a contract. Mr J says there were several 
false statements of fact provided by Listers when they brokered his finance agreement for 
him. He says the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) was wrong, the annual mileage allowance 
was incorrect, and the part exchange value was false.
Mr Js complaint email to Listers (5 March 2023) explained that he raised the issues with 
their customer representative before he took receipt of the car. It seems, therefore, that he 
was still prepared to take receipt of the vehicle even with the misrepresentations he says 
had been made. So, I dont think he was induced to enter into the contract because of the 
misrepresentations he suggests were made and I dont, therefore, think the test Ive set out 
can be said to have been met.
But, in case Im wrong about that, I will go on to consider the misrepresentations that Mr J 
says were made.
The APR
The APR calculation is a complicated one, its set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys
(FCA) Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) at MCOB
10.3.1A. Our Service wouldnt usually calculate or check APRs: wed expect the businesss
auditors to do that, and we understand that the calculation is automated. 
Mr J has supplied his own calculation of what the APR was, but hes not used the correct 
calculation, and Im not persuaded I have sufficient information to suggest the APR 
calculation that has been applied is wrong.
The total amount payable that is shown on the finance agreement includes a manufacturers 
deposit contribution of £1,400 that is not referenced on the Pre Contract Credit Information 
(PCCI). That deposit has no bearing on the amount Mr J had to pay. His repayments were 
calculated on the total amount of credit that was to be supplied after the deposits were 
deducted from the sales price and the interest was added.
I can understand Mr Js confusion over Listers explanation of the Total Amount Payable 
given in their final response. They say that amount is calculated by adding A (the cash 
price of the goods) to B (the deposit) and then to C the interest payable. That, as Mr J 
has correctly pointed out, would lead to a Total Amount Payable of over £34,000. But the 
correct calculation is to add the total credit £21,422.61 (which should be A) to the deposit 
(B) and then to the interest payable C. That calculation generates a Total Amount 
Payable of £29,746.91 which is set out correctly on the original finance agreement. 
So, Im not persuaded that the finance agreement calculations were misrepresented to Mr J.
The annual mileage allowance
The hire purchase agreement that Mr J signed explained that he was entitled to drive 8,000 
miles but Mr J says he was told that would be 10,000 miles.
Mr J has explained that he queried the PCCI as it suggested he would be entitled to 8,000 
miles per year and not 10,000 miles. But the next day he signed the finance agreement in 
which the mileage was listed as 8,000 per year (28,000 over the course of the 42 month 
agreement). I think its likely Mr J would have been on high alert to check the mileage 
allowance listed on the final finance agreement he was committing to. On balance, Im 
persuaded the evidence suggests an allowance of 8,000 per year was agreed.
And, regardless, Listers accepted that there had been some confusion over the mileage, and 
they offered a payment of £408.40 which they said would have been the difference in the 
future value of the car if the 10,000 allowance had been applied. That seems to me a fair 
resolution in the circumstances, and Im not asking Listers to take any further action in that 
regard.
The part exchange 
The part exchange valuation agreed in October 2022 was reduced by £500 when the finance 
agreement was agreed in February 2023. I dont think that was unreasonable as Mr J had 
continued to use the car in the interim and its value would have been likely to have 
depreciated. And, as Ive already explained, I dont think that would suggest a 
misrepresentation as Mr J raised the issue before he took receipt of the vehicle and he still 
proceeded with the deal. That suggests any misrepresentation that may have occurred (and 
I dont think one did) didnt induce him to entering the agreement; he was prepared to do so 
regardless.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded the agreement was misrepresented to Mr J and Im not asking 
Listers to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman