DRN-1269749
 
The complaint 
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs K says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs K applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1994. At some time between then and 2000, 
PPI was added to her account that was designed to help protect her repayments if she 
couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mrs K didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the 
information available from the time. Mrs K says it was sold in-branch, but Lloyds cant 
confirm thats the case. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI between 1994 and 
2000 across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without her 
knowledge or agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs K, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that shed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And, despite her entitlement to enhanced sick pay for a 
time and redundancy pay, the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that and for 
longer, at up to 12 months per claim.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely she chose to take it out  so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong despite her employment benefits. It also looks like shed have 
found it affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover. 
 
Overall, I dont think Mrs Ks lost out because of how Lloyds sold her the PPI.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman