DRN-2436263
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) charged him a fee when he closed his 
current account.
What happened
Mr N applied for a Monzo Premium Service bank account with Monzo. Shortly afterwards Mr 
N contacted Monzo to close the account. Mr N then phoned Monzo to ask if there would be 
any charges for cancelling. Mr N was told that there wouldnt be any charges, but was then 
charged a £50 fee.
Mr N complained to Monzo. When Monzo replied it partially upheld the complaint. It said that 
the call handler shouldnt have responded as he did and should have checked whether Mr N 
was still in the cooling off period. However, the £50 fee would still have been charged during 
the cooling off period because it was for a metal card that had been produced, which the 
terms and conditions said had a £50 cancellation fee within the first six months. It offered Mr 
N £15 as a gesture of apology.
Mr N complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
the £50 fee was in line with Monzos terms and conditions. Monzo had made an error by 
providing incorrect information, the investigator said that £15 was fair compensation.
As Mr N did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Mr N, I dont uphold this complaint. I 
will explain why.
Ive read the terms and conditions for this account. These said:
If you change your mind, you can cancel Monzo Premium within 14 days of signing up. If 
youd like to cancel, you can do so in the app. Well give you a full refund but well charge 
you a £50 fee if youve ordered a metal card. Thats how much it costs us to get your Monzo 
Premium card made.
Mr N was charged the £50 fee because he had ordered a metal card.
Ive listened to the relevant phone call. Mr N asked to cancel his account. The call handler 
said he couldnt cancel the account but would pass it to the relevant team. Mr N said there 
wont be any charges will there, because I worked out 11 working days cause weekends 
dont really count cause theyre not working days. The call handler replied Thats correct. 
Yeah, Im not experienced on the Monzo Premium side but our team will be able to advise 
you on anything regarding that. The call then ended.
The call handler then electronically passed on the account cancellation request to another 
team. The call handler also opened an online chat conversation with Mr N to explain what 
he had done and advised that someone from the relevant team would be in touch. About 15 
minutes later, someone from the Monzo Premium team contacted Mr N through the chat 
facility and said:
I'm sorry to hear you want to cancel Monzo Premium. Was there anything we could have 
done better?
As you have ordered a metal card, and are cancelling within the 6 months minimum term, 
you'll be charged a £50 fee to cover our costs.
Mr N said he thought there was a 14 day cooling off period. Monzo replied:
I'm afraid that the £50 cancellation fee covers our costs of engraving and sending the card. 
This is valid for the entire minimum term of 6 months.
Mr N said he would go ahead with the cancellation anyway. Mr N said the call handler had 
told him he was in his 14 days. The Premium team said Mr N had signed up 16 days ago 
and the cancellation charge was valid from when he had signed up and ordered the card.
Ive thought about this. Mr N has said that based on the phone conversation, he shouldnt be 
charged the £50 fee. I think it was unhelpful that the call handler said thats correct, but he 
then said that the Premium team were the ones to answer questions on that account. The 
call ended and the call handler immediately passed on the request to the relevant team to 
deal with the account cancellation. When Mr N cancelled his account, he knew that there 
would be a £50 charge for the metal card and the reasons for this.
Although I can understand that Mr N was unhappy about bring charged a fee, I dont think 
this meant that the cancellation charge shouldnt apply. The call handler provided slightly 
unclear information but took prompt action to ensure that Mr Ns query was passed to the 
correct team and that he received the correct advice. When Mr N complained to Monzo, it 
offered him £15 as an apology. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont 
require Monzo to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman