DRN-3686878
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Jarvis investment Management Ltd (JIML) didnt provide her with a 
contract note or documentation following a take-over and sale of shares she held in a 
company I will call M. She is also unhappy that she was unable to access information she 
expected to be able to find out via an online link on JIMLs website. She says she has no 
formal record of the sale and the trouble, inconvenience, time and effort she has expended 
on the matter is unacceptable. 
To put things right, Mrs B wants JIML to provide her with documentation relating to the take 
over and sale of her M shares and she feels she should also be offered £100 as a gesture 
of goodwill.
What happened
Mrs B held shares in company M in her execution only dealing account with JIML.
On 19 August 2021, shortly after a corporate action was announced concerning 
company M, JIML sent an email notification to Mrs B telling her what was proposed, 
how this would impact on the value of her M shares and setting out the expected 
timetable of events. 
JIML sent a second email to Mrs B on 13 October 2021 explaining changes to the 
previously notified proposals. JIML told Mrs B the amount she would now receive in 
lieu of each of her M shares and when to expect payment. JIML told her that subject 
to approval the event would be mandatory and take effect towards the end of October 
2021. 
On 10 November 2021, JIML posted an entry in the Cash and Statement details 
section of Mrs Bs account on its online platform telling her that in relation the M 
scheme of arrangement she had received a credit of £1,435. There was a link 
provided to find out more details.
In May 2022, Mrs B complained to JIML shed been waiting over 6 months for a contract 
note or any paperwork relating to the transaction and that the link on its online platform still 
took her to a page that said: We are currently updating the event details and they will be 
available online shortly.
JIML told Mrs B the two email notifications it sent included information about the M scheme 
of arrangement and confirmed the offer details and pay date for receipt of funds. It said a 
contract note wasnt generated for corporate actions. JIML apologised that Mrs B hadnt 
been able to access details via the link provided. It explained that the function was under 
development and so information concerning a corporate action on her account was still sent 
by post or email in line with the registered details on her account. 
Mrs B didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so she brought her complaint 
to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She mainly said that JIML hadnt made 
an error or operated outside the agreed terms and conditions which Mrs B accepted when 
she opened the account. 
Mrs B disagrees with the investigators view. She believes the investigators findings are 
incorrect. In particular, she objects to the suggestion that it was her responsibility to go 
online and search the web for information about transactions involving stock she owns . She 
says JIML are responsible for managing my stock portfolio and any cash I hold in the 
account.  
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on her complaint, so it comes to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Mrs B feels about this complaint. Id like to reassure Mrs B that 
whilst I have sometimes summarised things in my own words, Ive considered everything 
both sides have provided. We provide an informal service as a free alternative to the courts 
and this is reflected in my approach. No discourtesy is intended if I do not address every 
point raised. Ive focused on what seem to me to be the core issues and I will deal with 
everything that affects the outcome.
In order to uphold Mrs Bs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that JIML did something 
wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
Ive thought carefully about what JIML terms and conditions say about what it will do when 
a corporate action is announced. 
JIMLs terms and conditions confirm that it will act on Mrs Bs behalf to conduct 
stockbroking transactions on an execution only basis. This effectively limits the scope of 
JIMLs obligations towards Mrs B  essentially, it is required to carry out her trading 
instructions. It was Mrs Bs responsibility to keep up to date with any changes that 
impacted on her holdings. 
Mrs B was entitled to expect JIML to operate her account in line with the terms and 
conditions she wouldve signed up to when she opened her JIML account. 
Paragraph 7.4 in the terms and conditions provides as follows:
We will notify you as soon as practically possible of any changes to any investment held in 
your Account resulting from a takeover or other offer or scheme of arrangement or where 
rights or similar benefits arise.
As far as I can see, that happened here. JIML sent Mrs B the first email about the proposed 
M scheme of arrangement shortly after it was announced. And JIML notified Mrs B about 
the changes to what was happening in its second email sent in October 2021. 
These emails went to the registered email address Mrs B had put on her account and shes 
confirmed that she received them. So I find that JIML provided the notifications about the corporate action that Mrs B was 
reasonably entitled to expect, in line with the account terms and conditions.
A key part of Mrs Bs complaint, as I understand it, is that she wants to see paperwork, 
and in particular, a contract note relating to the M shares that were the subject of the 
corporate action.    
A corporate action describes the situation when a company puts out a notice that it may 
do something which could affect its shareholders. And clearly, what happened here 
impacted directly on Mrs Bs shareholding. But JIML has explained that a corporate action 
isnt a market trade and no stamp duty or commission applies. So a contract note isnt 
generated for corporate action events. And it seems reasonably clear from its terms and 
conditions that the circumstances in which it will issue a contract note are following the 
placing of any instruction. Here, the corporate action was a compulsory event that Mrs B 
didnt take any active part in and she gave no instructions to JIML in respect of the matter. 
In these circumstances, I dont find that JIML was required to produce a contract note for 
Mrs B so I cant fairly or reasonably tell it to do so.
Mrs B believes that JIML shouldve provided formal documentation after the sale of her 
shares which details the price level and total proceeds of the sale, similar to a contract note 
and she expected to find out this information via the link provided online.
But paragraph 7.9 in the terms and conditions provides as follows: Where your 
investments are held in one of our nominee companies you accept that, unless required by 
the Rules, you will not be entitled to receive reports and accounts and other material issued 
by the entity in which you invest. So I dont find that JIML was under any obligation to send 
her the further documentation that Mrs B wanted it to provide.  
I can appreciate that it was frustrating for Mrs B when the link provided didnt lead to the 
information she was hoping to see. But this isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold her 
complaint. JIML has explained that this account feature was still undergoing testing and 
I think the information Mrs B saw displayed on the page when she tried to use the link 
made it reasonably clear that there would be a delay before information would appear. 
Even if I were to find that JIML shouldve been more explicit about the fact that the link 
wasnt active, this wouldnt affect the outcome of her complaint because I cant see that not 
being able to use the link caused Mrs B any particular detriment. 
JIML had posted timely information on Mrs Bs account about the amount of the sale 
proceeds, so she already knew how much she had received following the sale of her 
M shares. Any further information she was entitled to see was likely to be available in the 
public domain. I think it's fair to say that if Mrs B wanted to find out more details generally 
about the corporate action, she couldve looked up further information online. JIML wasnt 
required to provide this level of detail.  
All in all, I havent found that JIML made any error or that it acted towards Mrs B in a way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. So there are no grounds upon which I can uphold her 
complaint and it follows that I cant award the redress she is seeking. I hope that setting 
things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and even though this isnt 
the outcome Mrs B hoped for, she will at least feel that her complaint has been fully 
considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman