DRN-3326948
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the price BUPA Insurance Limited charged when she transferred 
from a group private medical insurance scheme to an individual policy.
What happened
Mrs L had cover under her employers group scheme. In March 2020, Mrs Ls cover under 
that scheme ended. 
Mrs Ls broker arranged for Mrs L to have continuation cover under an individual policy. In 
other words, BUPA would continue to offer her cover for any existing medical conditions. 
The monthly cost of the policy was £203.66, and Mrs L went ahead with this in April 2020.
Mrs L later complained about the price BUPA had charged. She learnt that BUPA had taken 
into account her previous back pain when working out the premium. She thought this was 
unfair, and wanted BUPA to reduce her premium and apply an exclusion for her back 
condition. BUPA refused to do this, and so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Meanwhile Mrs L cancelled her policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought BUPA had been 
entitled to take into account Mrs Ls back pain when working out the price of the cover. 
Mrs L (via her representative) didnt agree with our investigators findings, and so the matter 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer to decide how much to 
charge for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgment fairly and consistently, its a 
matter in which this service wouldnt normally interfere.
BUPA has explained that when offering continuation cover from a group scheme, it will 
consider any ongoing or higher cost conditions, and will price the cover accordingly. 
Musculoskeletal conditions fall under this. Therefore, when Mrs L disclosed that shed 
experienced pain in her lower back, BUPA chose to increase Mrs Ls premium. 
This was a commercial decision that BUPA was entitled to make. Whilst I appreciate Mrs L 
wanted BUPA to exclude her back condition from cover and reduce her premium, BUPA has 
explained that it doesnt provide this option for continuation cover from a group scheme. 
However, I see that BUPA did still consider whether to make an exception for Mrs L, but it 
decided not to because of her medical history. That was up to BUPA. 
The only way Mrs L couldve had her back condition excluded from cover and have this 
reflected in the price wouldve been to take out a new policy with BUPA (rather than 
continuation cover). She couldve had a fully underwritten policy, or she couldve taken out a 
policy with a moratorium method of underwriting (which wouldve excluded all pre-existing 
conditions until thered been a trouble-free period). 
Mrs Ls representative says he had a phone call with BUPA on 27 March 2020 before the 
policy was taken out, and the option of a moratorium wasnt brought to his attention. He 
thinks BUPA therefore misadvised him about the cover available.
Unfortunately, BUPA doesnt have a copy of this particular call, and so I cant comment on 
what was discussed. However, the policy was sold through a broker, and so if Mrs L has any 
concerns about the type of policy that was arranged, she should raise these with her broker. 
In selling the policy to Mrs L, it was for the broker to make Mrs L aware of the options 
available to her, this wasnt BUPAs responsibility.
I therefore dont find that BUPA misadvised Mrs L or her representative.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman