DRN-1699321
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2000 alongside a credit card. Mrs C says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSO 
Limited) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs C case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think CSO Limited made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out - although I can understand why Mrs C may now not 
remember this. The PPI sales process Mrs C went through would have required her 
to either select or refuse PPI with both options being equally prominent  she 
wouldnt have been able to progress past this stage if she didnt make a selection. 
And from the evidence available to me I think its more likely that Mrs C selected PPI 
at this stage and thats how it came to be applied to her account.
 
CSO Limited didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
 
Its possible the information CSO Limited gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - including what shes said about her other 
repayment provisions. But these points dont change my decision. The PPI would have paid 
out in addition to Mrs Cs existing means. And could have been particularly useful when her 
employee sick pay reduced to half - after six months -as this policy would have paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Canada Square Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman