DRN-2970056
The complaint
Mr T complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Broadgate 
Financial Management LLP (Broadgate, the respondent business in this complaint) and 
another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). He believes that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined- benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do so he contacted 
Broadgate. Mr T met with Broadgate in November 2016, during which it gathered information 
about his circumstances and objectives. But as Broadgate didnt hold the relevant 
permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his 
defined benefits in the BSPS, it said Firm B would provide Mr T with advice.
Firm B carried out further fact-finding and completed a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS). Firm B then sent Mr T a suitability report on 27 December 2016 advising him to 
transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension plan. £262,482.91 was transferred to the new 
personal pension and was invested with S in a managed fund. Firm B charged Mr T 
£7,874.49 for the advice, which was equivalent to 3% of his transfer value. Mr T was referred 
back to Broadgate for ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In 2020 Mr T complained to both Broadgate and Firm B about the advice.
Broadgate told Mr T it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it 
had referred him to Firm B. Firm B didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, saying the advice was 
suitable.
 
Mr Ts representative asked our service to consider Mr Ts complaints about each business. 
The representative said Mr T had only met with Broadgate  he didnt recall meeting with 
Firm B. It said Mr T had been verbally advised to transfer by Broadgate and he had relied on 
its advice, so it should also be held liable.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that Broadgate had 
advised Mr T to transfer his pension  he was satisfied that Mr T had only transferred his 
pension because Firm B advised him to do so.
Mr Ts representative didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
My understanding of the representatives position is that Broadgate should be held liable 
because it verbally advised Mr T to transfer his pension and Mr T relied upon that advice. It 
also argues there was a joint venture between Broadgate and Firm B. And in addition, it says 
Broadgate should be held liable because it did not treat Mr T fairly or have regard to his best 
interests. Ill address each point in turn.
Did Broadgate advise Mr T to transfer?
Broadgate did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm B, 
where Firm B would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client 
would be referred back to Broadgate for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Broadgate advised Mr T to 
transfer his BSPS benefits. Its clear that Mr T met with Broadgates adviser on several 
occasions in 2016  this also meets with Mr Ts recollections. Ive considered the paperwork 
completed in November 2016, which Mr T says shows Broadgate gave him advice. This 
includes a Client Attitude Questionnaire carrying Firm Bs branding, a Pension Transfer  
Attitude Questionnaire, and a letter addressed to the BSPS trustees confirming Firm B was 
Mr Ts new adviser. While these documents appear to have been completed by Broadgates 
adviser, and could have given rise to Mr Ts belief that Broadgate was giving him advice, 
I think this was clearly done for Firm Bs benefit. I say this because none of the documents 
gave any indication that Broadgate would be using this information to provide Mr T with 
advice. Furthermore, two of those documents specifically identified Firm B, with Mr T signing 
a letter confirming Firm B was his adviser. I can also see that the suitability report referred to 
Broadgate obtaining information about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives on Firm Bs 
behalf. 
I accept that Broadgates adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr T and likely discussed 
his objectives and reasons for wanting to transfer out of the BSPS. But apart from the initial 
fact-finding documents, the remaining work required to put Mr T in a position to transfer was 
completed by Firm B. Firm B completed a risk profiler with Mr T over the phone on 
21 December 2016 and it gathered further information from him which it used, together with 
the information Broadgate had gathered, to complete its own fact-find. Firm B gave a formal 
recommendation to Mr T in writing and then it held a further meeting with Mr T in 
January 2017 to go through the recommendation. Mr T signed the report confirming he 
accepted Firm Bs advice. The application form for the new personal pension included 
Firm Bs details and not Broadgates. So, I think Mr T wouldve understood that it was 
Firm B, not Broadgate, that was providing him with advice.
I think Broadgate was probably hoping that Firm B would advise Mr T to transfer out of the 
BSPS so it could become the ongoing adviser and receive fees for this. And its possible that 
Mr T believed Broadgate was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to show that Broadgate gave Mr T a personal recommendation, either 
verbally or in writing. In my view, the evidence shows that Firm B advised Mr T to transfer 
out of the BSPS, not Broadgate.Its also possible that Broadgate strayed into giving Mr T verbal advice to transfer his BSPS 
benefits, but regardless, I dont think he couldve done so based on those interactions alone. 
The transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS stated that Mr T would be 
required to provide evidence that he had taken appropriate financial advice if he wanted to 
transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexible benefits scheme. This requirement was repeated in 
the transfer value discharge form, which further stated that Mr T would need to provide a 
signed confirmation from his adviser that such advice had been given. Firm B issued a 
suitability report addressed to Mr T recommending that he transfer out of BSPS to a flexible 
scheme. Broadgate did not produce such a document as it did not give Mr T any formal 
advice in respect of his pension. So, Mr T couldnt have transferred out of BSPS based on 
the meetings he had with Broadgate or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he 
wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm B gave the advice for Mr T to transfer out of the BSPS. And 
I dont think Broadgates earlier involvement should automatically make Broadgate liable for 
the suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm B. It is my view that Firm B 
remains fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr T to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr T would have still opted to transfer his benefits
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm B had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ts
representative says Mr T was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with 
Broadgate. But on balance I dont think Mr T wouldve gone against the advice provided by 
Firm B. Mr T was an inexperienced investor and he tells us he didnt want to take any risk 
with his pension  he simply wanted to protect it. So, if Firm B had provided Mr T with clear 
advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think 
Mr T wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with 
Broadgate.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Bs advice that ultimately
enabled Mr T to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm B is responsible for
Mr Ts losses flowing from the transfer. 
Did Broadgate and Firm B embark on a joint venture?
Mr Ts representative says a joint venture existed between Broadgate and Firm B to facilitate 
Mr T transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any 
financial loss Mr T has suffered. 
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Broadgate liable for the advice given to Mr T to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Ts 
representative states that Mr T was verbally advised to transfer by Broadgate, Im satisfied 
Mr T transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm B advised him to do so, independently of 
Broadgates involvement. So, I think Mr Ts losses flow from Firm Bs advice, rather than 
because of any interaction he had with Broadgate before that. 
Broadgate did not treat Mr T fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Ts representative has suggested that Broadgate didnt treat Mr T fairly or act in his best
interests by partnering with Firm B. It says that Broadgate ought to have known that 
transferring out of a defined-benefit scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it 
endorsed the advice.
  
As I have said above, Broadgate did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise 
Mr T on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, Broadgate could not have advised Mr T 
against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As 
Broadgate didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr T to Firm B, which was 
regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think Broadgate could 
reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm B, particularly as Firm B 
had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated 
adviser, it was also required to treat Mr T fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with 
suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Broadgates advice that ultimately led 
to Mr Ts decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm B. I am also not 
persuaded that Broadgate made an error or treated Mr T unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Broadgate to pay compensation to Mr T or to take any further action in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman