DRN-3185770
The complaint
Mrs H complains about delays and difficulties registering a Power of Attorney (POA) 
arrangement with National Savings and Investments (NS&I).
   
What happened
In May 2020 a POA document that appointed Miss H as an attorney for Mrs H was sent to 
NS&I. Miss H, who brings the complaint on behalf of Mrs H, has told us she has sent the 
POA document to NS&I on several occasions but its refused to accept it and register her as 
an attorney. Mrs H also wanted NS&I to pay any prizes via bank transfer after cheques it 
sent werent honoured when sent for payment. 
Miss H has explained that NS&I advised the first copy she sent wasnt acceptable because it 
was a photocopy. Miss H sent another copy but NS&I said the certification hadnt been 
completed correctly. A bank certified a copy was sent in March 2021 but NS&I said it wasnt 
acceptable. NS&I asked for the original POA document, or a copy that was certified by a 
solicitor. 
Miss H says a third attempt to record her as POA was made in April 2021 but rejected by 
NS&I. 
NS&I issued its final response on 11 May 2021 and offered Mrs H £30 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But NS&I didnt add the POA to Mrs Hs account. Around a week later, NS&I 
received an online registration form from Mrs H, but it didnt act on it. 
Miss H referred Mrs Hs complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
During the investigation, NS&I confirmed it had processed Mrs Hs online registration form 
and apologised for the delay  offering a further £40. NS&I confirmed it still hadnt received a 
usable POA document and that an account block meant prizes werent paid for a period. 
The investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint and asked NS&I to pay 8% interest on unpaid 
prizes and pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the way it had 
administered her account. NS&I asked to appeal and said the compensation award was too 
high and unfair. As NS&I didnt agree, Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above because all parties broadly 
agree about what happened. Miss H has explained she sent three POA documents to NS&I 
to register her ability to act on Mrs Hs behalf. Miss H also says NS&I has provided incorrect 
information and failed to return copies of the POA that it couldnt use. Miss H has also 
explained that she has spent many hours trying to resolve this issue for Mrs H and has found 
the experience very distressing. 
The key issue raised relates to how the POA documents have been processed. NS&I says it 
doesnt automatically return uncertified documents which meant at least one of the copies 
Miss H sent it was destroyed instead of sent back. Each time NS&I received a copy of the 
POA document it wrote to confirm why it wasnt acceptable. The first copy wasnt certified. 
The second copy wasnt correctly certified and the third copy was certified by a member of 
bank staff rather than a solicitor. 
The above being said, Ive listened to various phone calls between NS&I and Mrs H and 
Miss H. I think NS&I couldve been clearer when discussing the certification requirements 
and note that a call handler advised Miss H that the POA could be certified by a bank. But 
that was wrong and led to someone other than a solicitor completing the certification process 
for Mrs Hs POA. 
Ive looked at the guidance NS&I provides generally about certification of documents. Whilst 
I understand NS&I has provided some incorrect information, Im satisfied it has explained 
how the certification process should be followed. Mrs H has the option of sending in the 
original document. Or she can get a solicitor to copy the POA and certify it. That process 
involves the solicitor using specific wording that confirms theyve seen the original and certify 
the copy provided is accurate. NS&I has confirmed the approach and wording required, I 
leave it to Mrs H to decide whether to provide the original or arrange for a certified copy to 
be made. 
As the investigator pointed out, NS&I received an online registration form from Mrs H in 
December 2020 but didnt process it until around six months later. The investigator said the 
delay meant Mrs H wasnt able to receive payments by bank transfer and asked NS&I to pay 
8% interest on unclaimed prizes. I agree thats a fair approach. 
Ive considered how to fairly resolve Mrs Hs complaint. I dont doubt that Miss H has 
experienced some inconvenience here, but our rules only allow me to award compensation 
to the customer, which is Mrs H in this case. I agree that NS&I couldve been clearer when 
providing information over the phone about its certification process. And I think it shouldve 
processed Mrs Hs online registration form sooner. Im satisfied these issues have caused 
Mrs H a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. As a result, Im going to tell NS&I to 
pay Mrs H £200 to reflect the impact on her by the way it handled her account. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to 
settle as follows: 
- Pay Mrs H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Pay 8% interest on any unpaid prizes from 21 December 2020 to the date claimedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman