DRN-3796793
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt port their mortgage on interest only 
terms. They ask for an interest only mortgage and compensation for their stress and upset.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr and Mrs H made a porting application for their interest only mortgage. 
Santander said it would port their mortgage on a part repayment and part interest only basis.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy about this. They say their mortgage contract gives them the right 
to port. They say its unfair for Santander to change its lending policy without telling them. 
And they now have to make higher monthly payments. Mr and Mrs H found the application 
experience stressful and felt they were bullied into taking out the mortgage as they had no 
other choice. They say having two mortgage accounts and higher monthly payments creates 
more risk than porting on an interest only basis. And they say Santander didnt take into 
account an inheritance they expect to receive in the next couple of years. 
Our investigator said Santanders service was poor, but the compensation it paid was fair. 
She said Santander had to carry out an affordability assessment. And Mr and Mrs H are in a 
better position by having part of the debt on a repayment basis, which will leave a smaller 
balance to pay at the end of the term.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mr H said the loan to value is very low. He said the porting 
process was simpler in the past, and he didnt think they should have had to go through an 
application process. He said Santander had a legal obligation to tell customers about 
changes in policy. Mr H questioned why Santander had said it didnt offer interest only 
mortgages, and then offered them £30,000 on an interest only basis. And why the amount 
on a repayment basis is the same as Santander wanted them to put towards the mortgage 
from the sale of their previous property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H had an interest only mortgage of about £65,000 which they wanted to port to a 
new property. They were moving to a less expensive property, which meant the loan to value 
ratio increased and the amount of equity reduced. Santander said they could only port 
£30,000 on an interest only basis. It said they could borrow another £35,000 on a repayment 
basis. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy about this. 
Santanders policy is that borrowers wanting an interest only mortgage must have a realistic 
and acceptable plan to repay the mortgage. Its lending policy sets out what it views as 
acceptable. Santander doesnt have to give customers a copy of its lending policy. But it did 
send a copy to us. 
Mrs H told Santander theyd sell the property and downsize after their children left home. 
This could be before they reach retirement age. But shed jointly inherited a property and 
expected to receive funds from this in the next couple of years. She said most likely theyd 
use this money to repay the loan.
Santander accepts sale of the security property as a repayment plan for an interest only 
mortgage provided certain conditions are met. These conditions werent met here. Ive read 
Santanders policy, and Mrs Hs inheritance didnt fall into one of the categories acceptable 
as a repayment plan. However, Santander said it would port part of Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage on an interest only basis provided the same amount of equity was maintained as 
in the previous property. This meant it would lend about £30,000 on an interest only basis.
Santander offered two options. Mr and Mrs H could port £30,000 on an interest only basis 
and fund the remainder from the sale of their previous property. Or they could port £30,000 
on an interest only basis and £35,000 on a capital repayment basis. This would require an 
affordability assessment. Mr and Mrs H wanted to keep some of the funds from the sale of 
their previous property for essential work to the new property, so they applied for the larger 
amount. While Mr and Mrs H could have looked for a mortgage elsewhere, this would have 
meant paying an early repayment charge to Santander.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration. Theyd already repaid most of the interest only 
mortgage they originally took out with Santander. Their loan to value to ratio remained low. 
And theyd benefit from an inheritance at some point. But porting is always subject to the 
property being acceptable to the lender and the application meeting the lenders policy. The 
product conversion offer sent to Mr and Mrs H in late 2021 (which Mr and Mrs H accepted 
when they took out the product) said porting was conditional on them meeting Santanders 
lending criteria and passing affordability assessments at the time. 
Mr H said the porting process was simpler in the past, and he didnt think they should have 
had to go through an application process. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H dont believe they 
are a lending risk. But rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out a stringent 
affordability assessment before offering to lend or vary a mortgage. 
Mr H says its unfair for Santander to require them to make higher monthly payments. He 
says it wants to get more money out of them. But Mr and Mrs Hs monthly payments are 
higher because part of the payments are used to repay the capital. This will mean they have 
a smaller loan to repay at the end of the term, and theyll pay less interest overall. Santander 
assessed the monthly payments as affordable.
Mr H questions why Santander allowed them to port part of the mortgage on an interest only 
basis when this was against its policy. Santander told Mr H it allows exceptions for 
customers with an existing interest only mortgage, but this must not put customers in a 
worse position. Santander used this exception when it agreed to port part of Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage on an interest only basis. I dont think it was unfair to offer this. While Santander 
could have looked more closely at the terms of Mrs Hs inheritance to see if it could accept it 
as an exception to its policy, I dont think it needed fairly to do so. Thats because it offered a 
way for Mr and Mrs H to port the mortgage. That is, to take part on a repayment basis.
Mr H queries why the amount Santander offered to lend on a repayment basis is the same 
as it said theyd need to increase their deposit by. I dont think this suggests any wrongdoing 
on Santanders part. Most likely, it said it could offer £35,000 on a repayment basis because 
its the difference between the amount Mr and Mrs H applied to port (£65,000) and the 
amount Santander would port on an interest only basis (£30,000).
Mr and Mrs H say its unfair for Santander to change its lending policy without telling them. 
Mr H said theyd sold their property before they made the porting application and didnt expect a problem with porting. However, lenders are entitled to make a commercial decision 
about their lending policy, and to make changes from time to time. Santander doesnt have 
to publish its lending policies or notify customers when it makes changes. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs H had already sold their property before asking about 
porting. But Santander wasnt responsible for that. And given what Mrs H told Santander 
about wanting to buy this property, it seems likely theyd have gone ahead even if theyd 
known how the change in Santanders policy would affect them.
Mr and Mrs H are disappointed that Santander didnt agree to port their mortgage on an 
interest only basis. But I think it acted fairly when it looked for a way to port the mortgage, so 
they could buy the property they wanted. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require Santander to offer a mortgage on an interest only basis.
While its clear from the recordings of Mr and Mrs Hs calls with Santander that they found 
this process stressful, this wasnt all due to errors by Santander. Part of the stress was due 
to Santander not agreeing to port on the basis Mr and Mrs H wanted, and having to go 
through an affordability assessment. But there was some poor service here which would 
have unnecessarily added to Mr and Mrs Hs upset. Santander paid £100 for this, which in 
the circumstances I think is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I find the compensation 
paid by Santander UK Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman