DRN-3169706
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a series of unsecured personal loans that he was provided with 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). He says Lloyds kept offering him loans despite him having 
poor credit and this saw him being swamped in a spiral of crippling debt. 
  
Background and my provisional decision of 12 November 2021
As far as I can see, Mr A was provided with six loans by Lloyds between May 2014 and July 
2019. As hes only complaining about the first five of these loans, for the sake of clarity, Ive 
only referred to these loans. His loan history is as follows:
Loan Taken Repaid Amount Consolidation Received* Repayments APR
1 May 14 Jun 16 £10,000.00 None £10,000.00 £297.59 28.9%
2 Apr 15 Feb 17 £10,000.00 None £10,000.00 £288.50 27.0%
3 Feb 17 May 18 £23,235.31 Loan 2 £15,000.00 £530.74 14.0%
4 May 18 Apr 19 £22,769.37 Loan 3 £2,500.00 £538.25 17.9%
5 Mar 19 Jul 19 £1,000.00 None £1,000.00 £57.85 14.6%
* additional funds advanced to Mr A when loan drawn down
In its response to Mr As complaint, Lloyds didnt agree its enquiries into the affordability of 
the loans were inadequate. It said that it made every effort to ensure it didnt lend to 
customers who cant afford to repay. It referred to the broad parameters of its lending criteria 
and in particular that it used a process called credit scoring. And overall it didnt think that 
there was anything to suggest that it shouldnt have lent to Mr A on any of these occasions. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr As complaint and concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr A when providing him with these loans, as it provided loans 
which it ought to have realised were unaffordable. Lloyds disagreed with our investigator and 
requested that the matter be considered by an ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision.
On 12 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on        
Mr As complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework and other relevant publications that I 
thought were important to my determination of Mr As complaint.  
The regulatory framework
Lloyds provided Mr A with these loans after regulation of consumer credit activities had 
transferred from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
on 1 April 2014. Lloyds was already authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to 
the FCAs rules in respect of consumer credit activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principles here
are PRIN 2.1.1 R (2) which says:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant 
sections of CONC here are CONC 1 which sets out guidance in relation to financial 
difficulties and CONC 5 which sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending.
CONC 1.3G provides guidance on financial difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
(1) consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
(2) adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
(3) outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
(4) inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
(5) consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
(6) agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
(7) evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (in place from March 2010 to 31 March 2014) and the rules set out in CONC 5 and 
CONC 6. As is evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note 
and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which 
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
By the time Lloyds provided Mr A with loan 5, the requirements for a firms obligations in 
relation to responsible lending had moved to the newly created Section 5.2A of CONC.
And it was Section 5.2A of CONC which set out what a lender needs to do in relation to a 
creditworthiness assessment before agreeing to give a consumer a loan of this type. 
CONC 5.2A.4R states:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement
CONC 5.2A.5R states:
The firm must not take a step in CONC 5.2A.4R(1) to (3) unless it can demonstrate that it 
has, before doing so:
1. undertaken a creditworthiness assessment and, where relevant, the assessment 
under CONC 5.2A.31R(2) (guarantors) in accordance with the rules set out in this 
section; and
2. had proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk.
CONC 5.2A.7R goes on to state:
A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
3. of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
4. obtained, where appropriate, from the customer, and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency, and
the information must enable the firm to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness assessment.
CONC 5.2A.10R sets out what should form part of the creditworthiness assessment and 
states:
The firm must consider:
1. the risk that the customer will not make repayments under the agreement by their 
due dates (this is sometimes referred to as credit risk); and2. the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments under the 
agreement in accordance with CONC 5.2A.12R (referred to as affordability risk in 
this section).
 
CONC 5.2A.12R provides more details regarding the considerations required in an 
affordability assessment and says:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
1. as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is 
an open-end agreement, within a reasonable period;
2. out of, or using, one or more of the following:
a) the customers income;
b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, 
income received by the customer jointly with another person or income received 
by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be 
available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement; and/or
c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to 
repay (wholly or partly) using them;
3. without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
4. without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or 
statutory obligation to make; and
5. without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on 
the customers financial situation.
CONC 5.2A.20R provides further detail on the proportionality of assessments and states:
1. The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that 
the firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable 
one, based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, 
the individual circumstances of each case.
2. The firm must consider:
a) the types of information to use in the creditworthiness assessment;
b) the content and level of detail of the information to use;
c) whether the information in the firms possession is sufficient;
d) whether and to what extent to obtain additional information from the customer;
e) whether and to what extent to obtain information from a credit reference agency;f) any other sources of information to use;
g) whether and to what extent to verify the accuracy of the information that is used;
h) the degree of evaluation and analysis of the information that is used; and
i) the steps to take to determine or estimate the customers income or non-
discretionary expenditure (where such a determination or estimate is required), 
having regard to the factors listed in (3) where applicable to the agreement.
3. The factors to which the firm must have regard when complying with (2) and 
deciding what steps are needed to make the creditworthiness assessment a 
reasonable one include each of the following where applicable to the agreement:
a) the type of credit;
b) the amount of the credit or, where applicable, the credit limit;
c) the duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
d) the frequency of the repayments;
e) the amounts of the repayments;
f) the total amount payable;
g) the total charge for credit;
h) the annual percentage rate of charge;
i) whether the rate of interest or any other charge (except any charge for non-
compliance with the agreement or any charge payable by the customer under 
a hire-purchase agreement in respect of an exercise of an option to purchase 
the goods to which the agreement relates) is fixed or variable;
j) any other costs which will or may be payable by or on behalf of the customer in 
connection with the agreement, including any charge for non-compliance with the 
agreement but excluding any charge payable by the customer under a hire-
purchase agreement in respect of an exercise of an option to purchase 
the goods to which the agreement relates; and
k) any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising under the 
agreement from a failure to make a repayment by the due date.
Further guidance on the proportionality of assessments and circumstances regarding the 
checking of information are contained in CONC 5.2A.24G and CONC 5.2A.25G, which state:
CONC 5.2A.24G1. The volume and content of the information that must be taken into account, and the 
steps that must be taken (if any) to evaluate that information and confirm its validity, 
will depend on the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement.
2. Factors that will affect that level of risk include the actual or potential cost of 
the credit and the total amount payable in absolute terms and relative to 
the customers financial circumstances, where known. So, if, for example, all other 
things being equal, the amounts of the repayments and the total charge for credit are 
low, the amount of information that is sufficient to support a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment may be less than would be required:
a) in the case of more expensive credit or credit that is higher in amount; or
b) where it is known that the customers financial situation is such that 
the credit may be expected to have a more significant impact.
CONC 5.2A.25G  
1. In relation to CONC 5.2A.24G(1), potential indicators that the level of affordability risk 
arising out of the agreement may be high include circumstances where:
a) the total value of the customers outstanding debts relative to 
the customers income is high; or
b)  there is a high likelihood that the customer will not make repayments under 
the agreement by their due dates.
2. In relation to CONC 5.2A.25G(1)(b), it may be the case that a high risk that one 
repayment will be missed or will be late is, in the individual circumstances, indicative 
that the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement is high.
Finally, CONC 5.2A.22G has examples of information a lender should pay attention to if 
aware of and it states:
The firm should also have regard to information of which it is aware at the time 
the creditworthiness assessment is carried out that may indicate that:
1. the customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial 
difficulties (see CONC 1.3); or
2. the customer is particularly vulnerable, for example because the customer has 
mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations (see CONC 2.10 and CONC 
7.2).  
Other relevant publicationsCONC sets out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit activities 
have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, 
Im also required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of 
practice, and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Lloyds were subscribers to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and currently 
subscribe to the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering the potential for the borrowing to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, information from CRAs, including existing financial 
commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Any known future financial commitments of the customer; 
 Any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have 
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 
56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of 
information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
The Standards of Lending PracticeThe standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
I then confirmed that having taken into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law, I thought there were three overarching questions which I needed to 
consider in order to decide to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. These questions were:
Did Lloyds, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr A would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr A wouldve been able to do 
so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Lloyds ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr As 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided her with further credit?  
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I also said that if I determined that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr A and that he had lost out as a result, I would go on to consider what was fair 
compensation.
I started by considering the first of the questions.
My consideration of this matter began by me explaining that the regulations in place 
throughout the period Lloyds was lending to Mr A required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr A could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Lloyds had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr A. In other words, it wasnt enough for Lloyds to think only about the likelihood that it 
would get its money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr A himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I explained that there might also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check should have been for a given loan application  including (but not limited 
to) any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. I confirmed that Id thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
I started by saying that I found Lloyds response to Mr As complaint and what it had 
provided to support its position to be very disappointing. It disagreed that its checks were 
inadequate and simply regurgitated details of what its usual process involved. It relied on all 
the loan applications having taken place online and assumed Mr A considered how much he 
wished to borrow and how much he could afford to repay. 
I was also particularly disappointed by what Lloyds said in its initial submission. In their initial 
case submission Lloyds casehandler said: 
We arent required by law, good banking practice or current regulations to obtain proof of 
income when agreeing unsecured borrowing and this is standard industry practice.  Lenders 
also dont cross check customers declared income from prior applications for credit.  We rely 
on customers to provide us with accurate information about their income and expenditure, as 
they are best placed to know their circumstances.  We also make it clear we rely on the 
information our customers provide, and it being accurate when we assess applications for 
unsecured borrowing. 
The above submission appeared to be a failure to recognise that Lloyds had a regulatory 
obligation to assess whether the payments were affordable. And that previous borrowing 
(and what was provided or uncovered during any applications) was very much relevant to 
determining any later application. I was also disappointed that Lloyds was either unwilling or 
unable to tell me what exactly its third-party credit reference agency checks revealed about 
Mr As financial circumstances at the respective times. 
Indeed it seemed to me that Lloyds simply expected this service to accept that all of Mr As 
loans were affordable because his applications reached a certain score and its systems 
approved the borrowing. Considering Lloyds said it gathered sufficient information to inform 
its lending decisions, it was extremely disappointing that Lloyds hadnt provided it to me. I ended this section by say that this service could not and would not look for evidence and 
construct an argument to support Lloyds defence of Mr As complaint. If Lloyds couldnt 
provide the information it relied on and describe why this information showed it was fair and 
reasonable to lend to Mr A on each occasion, then I couldnt and wouldnt reach the 
conclusion that its checks before providing these loans were proportionate. 
Without any explanation from Lloyds on this matter, I couldnt take it as read that its lending 
decisions were fair. As this was the case, I confirmed that I was minded to find that Lloyds 
didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing Mr A with any of his 
loans. 
As Lloyds couldnt show me that it carried out proportionate checks for these loans, I couldnt 
say for sure what proportionate checks would most likely have shown. This meant I needed 
to decide whether it was more likely than not that a reasonable and proportionate 
affordability check wouldve told Lloyds that it was unfair to offer these loans to Mr A. 
I thought that a proportionate check for Mr As loans would have involved finding out  for 
example  about Mr As normal monthly outgoings and regular financial commitments. And 
as the lending continued, I would have expected Lloyds to assess the potential impact of 
granting further credit.
Mr A had a current account with Lloyds. And to help us understand for ourselves what 
Lloyds would more likely than not have discovered if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks prior to providing Mr As loans, weve looked at the bank statements for 
his Lloyds account. And even though I didnt know what checks Lloyds completed at the 
time, I thought it was perfectly reasonable for me to rely on these statements to ascertain   
Mr As financial position at the time of the respective applications as Lloyds had this 
information available at the time. 
I then proceeded to take a look at Mr As financial position at the time he was provided with 
loans 1 and 2.
Loan 1
Having carefully considered the information contained in Mr As account statements, and 
while appreciating that this matter was finely balanced, I didnt think that a proportionate 
review of Mr As financial circumstances, would have shown Lloyds that it shouldnt have 
provided loan 1. 
I said this because while there were some signs that I was concerned about such as the fact 
that Mr A had been hardcore borrowing on his overdraft for a number of months and he had 
a loan with at least one high cost credit provider, it looked like the intention was for this loan 
to consolidate some of Mr As existing debts. Indeed, Mr As account statements showed 
that he went into a credit balance after having been provided with this loan. 
So overall and having considered the information before me, I was satisfied that should a 
reasonable and proportionate check have been carried out before loan 1 was provided, this 
wouldnt have indicated that Mr A would more likely than not have had difficulty repaying this 
loan. And it followed that I was inclined to find that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would not have prevented Lloyds from providing loan 1 to Mr A. Loan 2
Loan 2 was provided in April 2015. The loan amount was once again £10,000.00, it was due 
to run alongside loan 1 and be repaid in monthly instalments of just under £290 over a term 
of around five years. So the payments for this loan were almost doubling what Mr A was 
previously committed to paying Lloyds. 
Equally I thought that it was fair to say that Mr As financial position had deteriorated since 
loan 1. Id already explained that there were some significant warning signs about Mr As 
overall financial position and his capacity to repay further credit at the time of loan 1. By the 
time of loan 2, Mr A was still making payments to the same high cost lender he was before 
he was provided with loan 1. Furthermore, I could also see that Mr A had been borrowing 
from a number of different payday lenders in the months leading up to this loan. 
I was also concerned with Mr As overdraft usage in the period leading up to loan 2 as well. 
Mr A hardly ever saw a credit balance and he was once again incurring unarranged overdraft 
fees for exceeding his limit. In my view, it ought to have been apparent that Mr A was not 
using his overdraft for occasional use  in fact he was reliant on it to meet his day-to-day 
living expenses. And I would have expected this to have played an important part in Lloyds 
decision on whether to provide loan 2 to Mr A.      
Lloyds said that this loan was to be used for debt consolidation and place Mr A in a 
materially better position. However, I had concerns with this argument for two reasons. 
Firstly, there was no indication that this loan was provided for the purpose of debt 
consolidation. Indeed, the information on the application suggested that this loan was 
provided for home improvement even though any basic credit check, which Lloyds 
maintained it carried out, would have shown Mr A didnt own a home to improve. 
Secondly and perhaps more importantly, I was also mindful that loan 1 was supposed to 
have been provided to consolidate Mr As existing debts and improve Mr As financial 
position. But clearly this didnt happen as Mr A returned less than a year later, with an 
outstanding loan with the high-cost lender he was supposed to have repaid with loan 1 and 
owing even more to a number of other creditors as well as to Lloyds. In my view, this, in 
itself, was a clear indication that Mr As financial position had worsened between loan 1 and 
loan 2. I also added that I couldnt see that Lloyds took any action to reduce Mr As overdraft 
limit at this stage either, even thought it was providing further funds. 
Furthermore, if I thought that if I took Lloyds argument to its logical conclusion, I saw it as 
being even if these further advances of credit were unsustainable, it still wasnt unfair to lend 
because this credit was less unaffordable then Mr As existing credit. And as this allowed   
Mr A to delay dealing with his difficulties he, in any event, didnt lose out as a result of having 
been provided with this loan. I had concerns with this argument for a number of reasons.
Firstly, I thought that Lloyds was presenting a false dichotomy as it somehow suggested that 
Mr A was faced with choosing between paying his existing creditors an unaffordable amount, 
or paying Lloyds perhaps less unaffordable amounts. But this ignored the fact that Mr A 
could have attempted to reach arrangements with his existing creditors to repay what he 
owed  after all his existing creditors (including Lloyds itself which appears to have been 
owed a significant amount) owed a regulatory obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration in the event that he was struggling to repay what he already owed. 
I wasnt suggesting that Lloyds was required to provide Mr A with debt advice in relation to 
his existing debts. What I was saying was that Mr As options werent as binary as Lloyds 
appeared to be suggesting. And that it didnt automatically follow that Mr A wont have lost 
out simply because his loans might have had lower APRs than his existing debts. Finally, I also thought that it ought to have been apparent that Mr As indebtedness was 
increasing in circumstances where he was only repaying what he owed by borrowing further. 
As this in itself was highlighted as unsustainable within the regulators rules, I thought that 
Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr A was more likely than not unable to sustainably repay 
loan 2. So this left me minded to find that Lloyds shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr A. 
I didnt go on to recreate proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 to 5. I didnt do so 
because in addition to assessing the affordability of each individual loan provided to Mr A by 
Lloyds, I also thought it was fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending. I 
was mindful here that the relevant rules and guidance made it clear that a lender shouldnt 
continue lending where the loans were unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or it was 
apparent that the customer may be experiencing financial difficulties.
Id already explained that there were some clear warning signs that Lloyds ought to have 
been alert to when it provided loans 1 and 2  Mr As worsening debt position and him living 
in his overdraft. But while reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown the monthly payments were affordable for loan 1, this wasnt the case for loan 2. 
Looking at the position from loan 3 onwards, I didnt think that Lloyds had any reasonable 
basis for concluding that Mr As overall financial position was improving or that he would be 
able to sustainably repay what it was advancing. I thought that this was the case for a 
number of reasons. Firstly, Mr A was now applying for significantly more than he had done 
previously. Lloyds once again said that this loan would help Mr A consolidate existing debts. 
However, once again the recorded loan purpose was home improvement. So I didnt see 
why Lloyds would have thought the loan would be used to consolidate existing borrowing.
Furthermore, while Lloyds said Mr A wasnt using payday loans in the leadup to loan 3, it 
failed to acknowledge that this was in all likelihood down to the fact that his overdraft limit 
was increased to £5,000.00. Mr A was still hardcore borrowing and only really saw 
meaningful credit balances when the proceeds of loans were paid into his account. So, in my 
view, Mr A had simply substituted a reliance on payday lending for a reliance on his 
increased overdraft, which wasnt really a much more suitable way of borrowing.
I didnt think that Mr As financial position had really improved by the time Lloyds provided 
him with loans 4 and 5 either. Lloyds said there was only one payment to a payday lender 
coming out of Mr As account. But it was clear that Mr A had taken a number of payday loans 
with that particular lender in the leadup to loan 4 being provided. And this was despite 
supposedly having an increased monthly disposable income as a result of higher earnings. 
Lloyds said there werent any payments to payday lenders in the leadup to loan 5. But Mr As 
statements show that he was simply borrowing from a different payday lender during this 
period. 
In reaching my conclusions I thought about what Lloyds had said about a customer using 
their overdraft not being a sign of financial difficulty as there was an expectation the product 
would be used if successfully applied for. I also thought about what Lloyds said about Mr A 
overspending too. 
I agreed that the use of an overdraft, in itself, didnt necessarily mean that a customer was in 
financial difficulty and therefore couldnt afford further borrowing. But in this case Mr A wasnt 
just using his overdraft. He was clearly meeting most of his expenditure, for an extended 
period, with it. This coupled with prolonged use of payday and other high-cost lending and 
his increasing overall indebtedness were the reasons why I thought Mr A was never in a 
position to sustainably repay loans 2 to 5. Furthermore, while I acknowledged that Mr A was spending more than he could afford, I 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to argue about Mr As responsibilities, while 
also failing to acknowledge its shortcomings in Mr As adoption of a repayment strategy 
which was predicated on Lloyds continuing to provide him further borrowing in the future.
In these circumstances, I couldnt see how or why Lloyds could reasonably have believed 
that loans 3 to 5 werent unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr A and didnt unfairly and 
excessively increase his overall indebtedness. From this perspective, having carefully 
considered everything, I thought that Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that 
any further lending was unsustainable and harmful for Mr A before it provided loan 3. 
So overall given all of Lloyds obligations and what I thought was fair and reasonable taking 
into account the circumstances and everything I covered, I set out that I was intending to 
issue a final decision which found that Lloyds acted unfairly in providing Mr A with loans 2 to 
5.
Finally, I then went on to consider the third of the overarching questions that I thought were 
relevant to my determination of Mr As complaint. I thought about everything provided. And 
bearing in mind the nature and circumstances of the dispute that had been presented to me, 
I hadnt seen anything that lead me to conclude that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr A in some other way. So at that point I didnt intend to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way.  
All of this led to me issuing a provisional decision which found that:
Lloyds didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr A to satisfy itself 
that he was able to repay any of these loans; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have individually shown  Mr A was 
unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 1;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have individually 
shown Mr A was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 2;
Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans 3 to 5 were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr A and were unfairly and excessively 
increasing his overall indebtedness; 
Lloyds didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way.
These findings left me intending to conclude that Lloyds unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Mr A with loans 2 to 5.
I then went on to consider whether Mr A suffered adverse consequences as a result of 
Lloyds unfairly providing him with loans 2 to 5. I thought that Mr A did as he paid additional 
interest and charges as a result of being unfairly provided with the loans he shouldnt have 
been provided with. I considered Lloyds argument that Mr A had other more expensive 
credit and its suggestion that the credit it advanced did at least delay any difficulties. But Id 
already explained that I didnt think this was automatically the case, as it was entirely 
possible Mr A would have reached arrangements to repay what he owed his existing 
creditors. 
And its perfectly possible these arrangements wouldnt have accrued further interest. In 
effect Lloyds providing Mr A with the additional credit it shouldnt have meant that he had to pay Lloyds additional interest for the privilege of it allowing him to delay dealing with what, in 
my view, had already become an unsustainable debt position. 
Mr A had to pay this additional interest at a time when he was already finding it difficult to 
repay what he owed. So I was satisfied that Mr A had lost out because of what Lloyds did 
wrong and Lloyds needed to put things right.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mr A, which I found addressed Lloyds 
failings and Mr As resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and that it didnt have anything 
further for me to think about.
Mr A also confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed that he didnt have 
anything further for me to consider either.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. I can confirm that Ive read and considered everything 
theyve said and provided. 
My provisional decision set out, in some detail, why I intended to partially uphold Mr As 
complaint. And as neither party has provided anything further or challenged my findings, Ive 
not been persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. 
So overall having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I find that:
Lloyds didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr A to satisfy itself 
that he was able to repay any of these loans; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would not have individually shown Mr A was 
unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 1;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have individually 
shown Mr A was unable to sustainably make the repayments for loan 2;
Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that the loans 3 to 5 were 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful for Mr A and were unfairly and excessively 
increasing his overall indebtedness; 
Lloyds didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in some other way.
 
All of this means that I find Lloyds unfairly provided loans 2 to 5 to Mr A. And as Ive already 
explained, Mr A lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong so I think that it needs to put 
things right.
  Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Lloyds putting Mr A in 
the position hed now be in if he hadnt been given loans 2 to 5.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr A 
was given the loans in question and he used the funds  albeit in reality hes effectively used 
a proportion of what was advanced to repay previous loans. So, in these circumstances, 
I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mr A back in the 
position he would be in if he hadnt been given loans 2 to 5 in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to put things right in the 
following way.
As Lloyds has quite rightly pointed out, Mr A did spend the funds he was provided with. So 
Im satisfied that Mr A had the use of these funds and its the extra in interest and charges 
he paid thats his loss here. Therefore, to start with, Im satisfied that Lloyds should refund 
the interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 2 to 5. 
As most of these loans were settled with later ones and there was only a short break 
between loan 5 being settled and loan 6 being provided, Im satisfied Mr A was in a position 
where he owed Lloyds money for almost all of the period concerned. So I dont think that Mr 
A was ever deprived of money he would have in any event had as a result of the interest 
payments made on loans 2 to 5. Therefore, Lloyds doesnt need to add interest to any 
interest refund due on these loans. This refund can then be used to reduce what Mr A owes 
on loan 6. 
Should the interest refunds from loans 2 to 5 as well as Mr As payments be enough to clear 
the outstanding balance on loan 6 then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
refunded to Mr A. Interest at 8% simple per annum should be added to any refunded 
payments, if there are any, from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
   
Ordinarily, where I find that a lender unfairly provided a borrower with loans, Id tell the 
lender to remove any adverse information recorded about that loan from the borrowers 
credit file. However, Im mindful of the circumstances of this case and in particular my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. 
Ive upheld Mr As complaint on the basis that his existing debts, at the time of these 
applications, already appear to have been unsustainable and that Lloyds providing him with 
potentially less unaffordable credit didnt take into account that Mr A may have reached 
arrangements with his existing creditors. And that Lloyds unfairly providing Mr A with these 
loans simply delayed him dealing with the consequences of his unsustainable debt. 
This is the reason why I think Lloyds should refund the interest it added to loans 3 to 5 as 
and deduct this from what Mr A now owes. That said, it would be unreasonable for me to 
reach this finding in relation to the balance owed, but depart from it in terms of Mr As credit 
file going forward. I think that removing adverse information in circumstances where it was 
more likely than not Lloyds would have recorded this on another product would place Mr A in 
a more advantageous position.  In my view, this would be counterproductive and arguably not in Mr As best interests, or 
those of any potential lender. So having carefully thought about everything, including 
everything Mr A has told us, Im not asking Lloyds to amend Mr As credit file to remove any 
adverse information as result of these loans.      
All of this means that Lloyds should do the following to put things right.
Refund all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid as a result of loans 2 to 5;
The refunded interest, fees and charges for loans 2 to 5 should be deducted from the 
outstanding balance on loan 6. If Mr A no longer has an outstanding balance once 
these adjustments have been made, Lloyds should treat any payments once the  
balance is cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr A.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision of 12 November 2021, Im 
intending to uphold Mr As complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way 
that Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman