DRN-2544625
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way his gadget insurer, Zenith Insurance plc, handled a claim 
when his mobile phone needed repairing. 
To keep things simple, Im using Zenith in my decision to refer to Zenith Insurance plc and 
any agents they used when handling Mr Ms claim.
What happened
Mr M contacted Zenith when the screen on his mobile phone cracked. There was an initial 
delay  lasting one day  as Mr Ms phone wasnt actually the one listed on his insurance 
policy. Hed received a replacement from the company that provided his mobile phone  itd 
been faulty when he got it  but the insurance still showed the original phones details. 
Zenith were ultimately happy that Mr M had done enough to show he owned the phone he 
was claiming for, and it was the phone the insurance had been intended to cover. So they 
decided to accept Mr Ms claim.
Zenith spoke to Mr M about his claim at that point, and said theyd need to take a £75 
payment for his excess. They also said Mr M would need to send his phone to their repairer, 
at his own expense, but theyd pay to return the phone when it was fixed. They couldnt give 
an exact timescale for the repairs, but said it shouldnt take more than 7 to 10 days. 
Mr M was upset when he heard this, and decided to cancel both his claim and the policy. He 
said he wanted the premiums hed paid refunded. Zenith decided not to do that, explaining 
they felt the service provided had been reasonable, and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us, saying Zenith had declined his claim. Our investigator 
found that wasnt the case, and explained why she felt Zenith had provided a reasonable 
service to Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with that view, so the matters come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I expect Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The starting point for deciding if Zeniths service was reasonable is to look at the terms of the 
gadget insurance policy. That set out what theyd agreed to do when Mr M signed up to the 
policy. 
Its for insurers to decide whether to have a policy excess, and what to set it at. Theres no 
specific amount that Id say is reasonable or unreasonable for an excess. But it should be 
what the insurer said it would be, when they offered their cover to a customer. 
Here, policy exception seven says Mr M has to pay an excess of £75 before any claim would 
be settled. There was a link to these terms in the renewal sent to Mr M. So I find Zenith did 
enough to make the excess clear to him. That gave Mr M a reasonable chance to decide 
whether this was the right policy for him before he bought it. And it was reasonable for Zenith 
to apply the excess in line with those terms, when Mr M made his claim.
On the repairs, theres nothing in the terms about how long these could take. I find thats 
reasonable, as it would depend on exactly what was broken, and whether parts were 
available. While I appreciate Mr M wasnt happy to hear he could be without his phone for up 
to 10 days, I think that estimate reasonably reflected the factors at play. And it didnt 
contradict any expectation Mr M could have had from the policys terms.
Next, Ive thought about policy exception four in the terms, which said Mr M would need to 
provide his phone for repair before any damage was covered. This doesnt specifically say 
he needed to pay the cost to send his phone in for repair, on top of his excess. But I note the 
cost was likely to be relatively small, so I can understand why the terms didnt specifically 
account for it. And its in balance with Zenith saying theyd pay the cost to return the phone. 
So it doesnt feel unreasonable for Zenith to only specifically say Mr M needed to pay the 
cost to send his phone in for repair when he made his claim. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Ms feeling that he should get all his premiums refunded when 
he cancelled his policy. I recognise Mr Ms decision reflected his feeling that the policy 
wasnt as good as hed thought it was. But Ive found Zenith were acting reasonably, in line 
with the terms set out when the policy was renewed. So I find its fair that Mr Ms change of 
mind about the policy should be handled in line with the policys terms about cancellation. 
These said that a cancellation after the first 14 days of the cover period would mean only the 
cost of any unused cover was returned. Whatever had been paid for the time already spent 
under the cover was kept. I find thats reasonable, as Mr M had the benefit of cover up to 
that time. Zenith appear to have handled the cancellation and refund in line with this term.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman