DRN-2361653
The complaint
Mr K complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged in an accident and Admiral declared it to be beyond economical 
repair. It made Mr K an offer in settlement of his claim which it said was the cars market 
value. Admiral offered Mr K £9,230, less the policy excess. But Mr K was unhappy as he 
said he was unable to replace his car for this amount. He said hed found similar cars 
advertised for higher prices. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had valued Mr Ks car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. She 
thought it had offered the highest of the valuations provided by the trade guides. She didnt 
think advertised prices were a reliable way to value the car.
Mr K replied that he thought the cars lack of availability would increase its valuation. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr K feels frustrated by Admirals decision as he says he cant find a 
replacement for its offer, but it hasnt increased its valuation. I can understand that he wants 
a fair settlement for the loss of his car. Mr K has provided detailed research hes conducted 
to establish what he considers a fair valuation for his car and I have considered this. 
In response to Mr Ks complaint, Admiral had an independent engineer assess the damage 
to his car and its pre-accident value. The estimated cost of repairs was higher than the cars 
value, so Admiral declared the car to be beyond economical repair. I think this was fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with standard industry practice. 
I think Admiral offered Mr K a settlement for the market value of his car, as defined in the 
policys terms and conditions, The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. I can see that Mr K 
doesnt agree with our approach, but it is one we use to be fair to all parties. 
Our investigator thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ks car. 
Mr K thought his car was rare and so using the guides wouldnt produce an accurate result. 
Mr K provided examples of other decisions where valuations for rare cars were made by 
research. But I can see that valuations for his car were found in the guides we use and so I 
can see no reason not to rely upon them. 
Mr K said hed seen similar cars to his advertised for higher prices. Hes provided us with 
research that hes conducted about the sales of cars similar to his. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The average of the valuations the investigator found was less than the final offer Admiral 
made to Mr K. So I cant say that Admirals offer was unfair or unreasonable as it was made 
correctly in keeping with our approach. And I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman