DRN-3735311
The complaint
Mr H complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. He is unhappy that HSBC wont refund him 
money that he lost to a scam in August 2020. 
Mr H feels that HSBC should have done more to protect him from the scam and wants 
HSBC to pay him back the money he has lost.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr H came across a website offering investment opportunities with 
cryptocurrency. Mr H sent a message and was contacted by phone to discuss the 
investment. Mr H says that he checked the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website and 
found information about the company he was dealing with. 
Mr H says that he was persuaded to invest £250  but then more money was taken from his 
account via his debit card which he says he did not authorise. In total, Mr H says that he has 
lost £5,863.17  although HSBC say that the loss is £5,062.48.
When Mr H realised he had become the victim of a scam he contacted HSBC and make a 
complaint.
HSBC contacted the merchant who sold the cryptocurrency to try and recover Mr Hs money 
on his behalf but didnt receive a response. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H then brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator considered the complaint 
but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr H disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Did Mr H authorise the payments?
The first thing I need to decide is if Mr H authorised the payments that were made to 
purchase the cryptocurrency. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr H isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr H authorised the payments  and so, whether he made the payment himself or 
whether he gave someone else permission to do this on her behalf.
Mr H says that he only authorised the first payment of £250. He says that he provided the 
scammer with his card details and security code over the phone in order for them to place an 
initial investment  and that he didnt authorise any more payments to be taken.
However, I am satisfied that on balance, Mr H did authorise the further payments that were 
made. The PSRs state that consent is given when a customer uses the steps agreed for 
making a transaction  and its also possible to provide consent for someone to act on your 
behalf. The payments themselves were spaced out, and HSBC has confirmed that Mr H had 
accessed his online banking throughout the times that the payments were being made  and 
after they had already left his account. I would also expect to have seen an attempt to empty 
Mr Hs bank account completely in a short space of time had the payments not been 
authorised which was not the case here. And Mr H didnt report the issue to HSBC until 
some time after the transactions had taken place  or take any steps such as cancelling his 
bank card either  when he had several opportunities to see that further payments had been 
taken.
Was Mr H the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mr H was the victim of a scam. He was taken in by 
the promise of investment returns that didnt materialise by a scammer posing as a broker - 
and although the scammer showed Mr H that he had made money he wasnt able to 
withdraw it.
I also understand that Mr H said he took steps to research the brokers he was dealing with 
on the FCAs website  and I can see that one of the brokers he was dealing with had an 
active warning on this website at the time that he should have seen.   
Should HSBC have prevented the payments in the first place?
I dont think that HSBC could reasonably have been expected to prevent the payments that 
Mr H lost to a scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process 
payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The PSRs and terms and conditions 
of the account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances 
where he authorised the payments  and as Ive explained above, I think that he did. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Having considered Mr Hs account activity, none of the payments that were made as a result 
of the scam were sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to reasonably say that 
HSBC shouldnt have allowed the payments to go through without first getting in touch with 
Mr H. 
The payments that were made were spread out over a few weeks  and all but one payment 
was of relatively low value. While there was one larger payment made, Mr H had made a 
similar sized payment only a few months before. And I dont think that there was anything 
that ought to have stood out about the transactions and triggered HSBC into further 
attention. While I understand that the payments were being made to purchase 
cryptocurrency  not all such payments are a result of a scam. So, I cant say that HSBC shouldve been obliged to have gotten in touch with Mr H about 
the payments  and Im satisfied that it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the payments 
from being made.
HSBCs attempt to recover Mr Hs payments
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect HSBC to have done anything
further until Mr H notified it hed been scammed. Then, because this was a debit card
payment, the only recourse for potential recovery of the payment would be via the
chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card
issuers (here, HSBC) and the merchant (here, R, the provider of the cryptocurrency Mr Hs 
payments bought).
I understand that HSBC attempted to contact R but received no response. However, I dont 
think that the chargeback wouldve ultimately have been successful even if R had 
responded.  This is because R provided the service that was requested of it which was 
providing cryptocurrency  and this was provided to an account in Mr Hs name. So 
ultimately any chargeback claim would have been defended on this basis and I dont think 
HSBC have been unreasonable by not processing this claim on Mr Hs behalf. 
I do have sympathy for the situation that Mr H has found himself in  he has been cruelly 
scammed out of money. However, the loss that he has suffered is ultimately caused by the 
scammers themselves  not HSBC. And I cant ask HSBC to refund this loss to Mr H when I 
dont think that it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman