DRN-1574830
The complaint
Mrs S complains about losses she sustained through investing in an IFISA promoted on 
Crowdstacker Limiteds (CSs) peer-to-peer lending platform.
What happened
CS provided a loan-based crowdfunding facility through a peer-to-peer platform in which 
retail investors could lend to borrowers in return for interest. Investors had the option to gain 
tax advantages by placing the investment in an ISA.
In May 2017 Mrs S invested £20,000 into an IFISA through CS, in which the invested funds 
were lent to company BN. BN went into administration in September 2018 and Mrs S has 
been unable to realise her investment.
The duration of the underlying loan was three years with a return of 7% interest per year. 
The minimum loan raise was £350,000 and the target loan was £7 million. The first £3.5 
million was raised in the first tranche of lending, which opened in September 2016. The 
increased target was promoted in a brochure dated April 2017, which set out the financial 
performance for the BN group, namely unaudited accounts to year end 31 July 2016, details 
in respect of the businesses operated by the group, an update as to the work undertaken 
with funds from the first raise and details of the businesses BN hoped to acquire. As to 
security for the lending, the brochure stated:
1. Your loan is secured against the assets of BN where BN gives the Security Trustee a
first ranking debenture. BNs assets can be valued by looking at the value of its
current and future leased and freehold pubs and their current and future profitability.
2. Six of its principal subsidiaries [named] will provide cross guarantees in favour of the
Security Trustee where they guarantee BNs liabilities to the Security Trustee.
3. Two of its principal subsidiaries [named] will each give the Security Trustee a first
ranking debenture over its assets and business.
Its said on Mrs Ss behalf that the brochure did not make it clear that this was a high-risk 
investment and the information wasnt easy to understand. Reassurance was taken from the 
fact that CS was FCA registered and the ISA was HMRC approved. Reliance was placed on 
CSs assurance that appropriate due diligence had been undertaken and that adequate 
asset security was provided to conclude that this ISA was a relatively safe option.
Mrs S raises concern that CS permitted BN to continue fundraising more than double the 
original target after she had invested. Mrs S representative says information wasnt given 
about this increase in risk and questions whether additional security was in place given that 
there were insufficient assets to meet repayment of the loan once BN fell into administration.
CS says it carried out appropriate due diligence before BN joined the platform. The first 
target was met and checks were carried out before additional lending was promoted. At that 
time CS assessed BNs financial projections against actual performance and they 
considered the value of the business premises to check they supported figures in the 
management accounts. CS say that Mrs S invested after the target had increased and the 
target would have been visible in the key information section. The net assets represented in 
the brochure were accurate at the time of the raise, security over the key group of 
companies was intended to access the majority of assets of the group in priority and funding 
was intended to grow the number of businesses, increasing the asset base. Risk warnings 
were contained in the information brochure and were displayed online.
CS say they appointed administrators in September 2018 and are in the process of pursuing 
legal action, with ongoing efforts being made to try and recover some of the funds.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. She thought CS had 
undertaken appropriate due diligence before allowing BN on their platform. Further, she 
thought adequate risk warnings were given in the brochure, in particular that capital was at 
risk and CS was not covered by the FSCS. CS also gave no guarantee that the security 
would be sufficient to cover the loans if the BN became insolvent. As to the increase in 
lending, our investigator didnt make a finding as to when the loan amount increase. She 
thought CS had considered desktop valuations of the assets and previous due diligence into 
BNs finances before deciding to increase the target amount. As the assets were over £10 
million, our investigator thought it was likely that Mrs S would have invested in any event as 
the assets covered the loan.
Mrs S disagrees with the view and it said on her behalf that she must have been misled 
about the asset valuations and securities as she now stands to receive no return. CS should 
have identified failings with the directors and Mrs S raises concern about another fund raise 
with a different company with similar directors which also failed. He believes CS failed to 
monitor the loan. Mrs S maintains that inadequate risk warnings were provided. The variable 
asset figures sounded made up and CS didnt have first call over the assets as they claimed. 
Mrs S says she would not have invested if she had understood that the capital repayments 
and interest would have been in excess of £9 million. It was extremely unfair to absolve CS 
of any responsibility.
As the parties do not agree the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to acknowledge that this has clearly been a very distressing time for 
Mrs S. Id like to reassure both parties that I have read all the information provided and I 
hope Mrs S and CS wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point 
raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive taken into account the wider obligations on CS, which includes good industry practice, 
and any applicable guidance or rules from the FCA. Given the wider allegations referred to, 
Id like to be clear that this decision only concerns the complaint between Mrs S and CS.
At the time of promoting BNs investment opportunity, CS was authorised and regulated by 
the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
CS was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So before holding out the promotional material provided by BN, CS needed to satisfy itself 
that the material itself was clear, fair and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied 
that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company BN, that it 
would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. Its also relevant that the loans were 
being promoted to retail customers. Its not disputed that CS did not provide investment 
advice. 
CS clearly understood these requirements as shown by the commentary on the Information 
Brochures, We carry out bespoke, independent due diligence on each potential borrower . . 
We negotiate additional levels of protection for our Lenders and organise the documentation 
so that it can be easy to understand the benefits and risks of each opportunity. 
Ive also borne in mind the FCAs 2013 consultation on crowdfunding, which highlighted that 
investors should be provided with clear, fair and not misleading information so as to be able 
to make informed decisions. 
When did Mrs S invest?
Mrs S says she invested before the loan increase, but looking at the timeline of the 
promotion, I think Mrs S is mistaken. The increased target of £7 million was promoted from 
April 2017 and Mrs S invested in May 2017. That date is supported by an online 
appropriateness test having been completed on 10 May 2017, in which Mrs S confirmed she 
understood her capital was at risk and that losses on capital were not protected by the 
FSCS. Its also consistent with the date on the key commercial terms (KCTs), dated May 
2017. I appreciate Mrs S now says she didnt have access to a KCT but Ive borne in mind 
CS submission that these terms were generated at the time, were accessible in the online 
account and were also emailed to investors. I note that requests for copies of these 
document werent made until 2019. I think its more likely than not that CS did hold out the 
target as being £7 million at the time Mrs S invested. This target was also clear from the 
2017 brochure and CS has confirmed this brochure was available at the time.
Initial due diligenceIve seen that CS did undertake due diligence. CS sought information about the company 
and group structure, directors CVs and experience, historical financial statements, current 
management accounts, lease agreements, asset registers and financial forecasts for the BN 
group. As our investigator explained, credit checks were also undertaken and CS met the 
management team. CS then undertook a credit scoring process. CS have also confirmed 
that the debentures and cross-guarantees were drafted and considered by their legal 
advisers before the first promotion was issued. 
Before the initial promotion the 2016 accounts showed net assets for the wider group of 
£3,506,303. Whilst BNs net assets were lower, Ive taken into account that it was the parent 
company that wholly owned all subsidiaries and CS selected the subsidiaries with the 
greatest asset base to provide the cross-guarantees. CS also considered the financial 
forecasts for the group, which showed an increasing asset base with operating cash flow 
meeting interest payments and capital repayments on the loan. Stress tests were applied, 
which showed any shortfall in loan repayments could be met by refinancing or sale of assets.
On balance, I am satisfied that BN did undertake appropriate due diligence before promoting 
the first tranche of lending. 
Loan increase and security
CS says that additional checks were undertaken before additional lending was promoted. It 
analysed forecasts against actual performance in the period between the original 
assessment and considered updated future forecasts. Further, it considered desktop 
valuations for the business premises to check that a fair value was being used in the 
management accounts and that value had been added to those premises.
Ive thought very carefully about the information CS had at the time the second promotion 
was approved in early 2017. And whilst its plain that things went wrong later on, Im mindful 
that it isnt fair and reasonable to assess this complaint with the benefit of hindsight. Mrs Ss 
representative has directed my attention to a fund raise for a separate company A, raising 
concern that the same directors were involved with this company, which also fell into 
administration. I dont doubt Mrs Ss disappointment at discovering this information in the 
administration process but these companies were separate legal entities. And the timeline 
also shows that the promotion for company A took place after funding had closed for this 
loan. So, I dont agree that it has a material bearing on the assessment for increasing 
lending to BN.
As referred to by our investigator, Ive seen that CS did consider desktop valuations (rather 
than red book valuations) for the premises, which showed indicative total valuations of over 
£10 million and CS obtained copies of the relevant lease agreements. An increase in value 
in the two new premises was also evidenced. These valuations werent being used for loan 
security assessment alone, CS also considered documents about the prospective premises 
BN was aiming to operate and profitability. 
As stated in the security section in the brochure, when assessing the assets, Ive now seen 
that CS also assessed the current and future profitability of BNs retail premises. The 
contemporaneous documents show that CS monitored and assessed the results from 
quarters ending October 2016 and January 2017 before promoting the second tranche of 
lending. These showed income slightly below forecasts with an increase in interest and 
depreciation. CS recognised that revenues were below forecast but noted the two new 
businesses had opened later than intended due to delays in raising the first funds. Net 
assets were broadly in line with the 2016 forecasts and the accounts showed that BN had 
managed their costs.  Management accounts for the quarter ending April 2017, which came 
out after the additional lending had opened for promotion, showed an increase in income and net assets of £3,155,848 after credit for the crowdfunding to date had been accounted 
for. The future forecasts showed there would be sufficient assets to cover the increased loan 
capital repayable in 2020. So, I agree with our investigator that even if Mrs S had been 
aware of updated projected asset valuations, I cant fairly conclude that he would have 
decided not to invest.
Overall, I consider that appropriate checks were undertaken before the second promotion 
was launched. 
Security and risks
Ive set out the security in place for the loan above and I confirm that Ive seen that the 
debentures and cross-guarantees were in place at the material time, so Im satisfied that this 
information was accurate. CS highlights the negative pledge by BN, which meant no other 
encumbrance other than this debenture should have been created or permitted to subsist. 
The brochure also explained that, BNs assets can be valued by looking at the value of its 
current and future leased and freehold pubs and their current and future profitability. As set 
out above, CS did make an assessment of the assets on this basis.
CS doesnt dispute that some subsidiaries granted fixed and floating charges to a third party 
just before BNs entry into administration, which substantially impacted lenders security. But 
as these events took place well after the loan had been promoted, apparently in breach of 
the terms of the debenture already in place, I cant say these matters were foreseeable at 
the point Mrs S invested and they werent actions that CS can be held accountable for.
I appreciate that Mrs S thought this investment was relatively safe because it was an HMRC 
approved ISA, but this didnt mean the underlying investment was guaranteed. The 
repayment of the loan capital and interest was largely dependent on BNs performance. The 
business risk section expressly stated there was, no guarantee that BN would remain 
profitable in the future. Online warnings highlighted a number of risks including loss of 
capital and expressly said that investors should not, lend more money than you can afford 
to lose.  A series of risk factors were also set out in the brochure, including a statement that 
there was no guarantee realisation of assets or security would be sufficient to cover any 
loans or liabilities that BN had. On balance, I consider that CS did provide adequate risk 
warnings about investing. 
As CS wasnt providing any advice, it was for Mrs S to assess whether the risks involved 
with this loan matched his risk appetite. Ive seen from the answers to the online 
appropriateness tests that Mrs S was investing less than 10% of his total wealth and she 
was aware that her capital was at risk.
Clear, fair and not misleading information
Ive looked at the information provided by CS. Two brochures existed, the first dated 
September 2016 (on the back page) set out a target for £3.5 million for development of two 
new premises and refurbishment of a current unit. The second dated April 2017 (again on 
the back page) set out the increased target of £7 million for acquiring new premises and 
referred expressly to £3.5 million already raised since September 2016. Both gave details of 
the units that were already operational. CS say only the second brochure would have been 
available at the point Mrs S invested in May. It contained an update, stating that the original 
plans had been executed and the two new premises were showing an increase in value 
already. So, I think it was clear that there were two tranches of lending and that the loan 
amount had doubled in a relatively short space of time.In each brochure figures for 2016 performance were provided, which were expressly stated 
to be unaudited figures taken from 2016 management accounts for the year end July 2016 
with fixed assets of £7,914,470 and net of £3,506,3030. Mrs S would or should have been 
aware that the assessment of assets was based on current and future profitability of the 
retail businesses.
The 2017 brochure did explain that this raise was additional to the £3.5 million already 
achieved and two new premises had been opened following the first raise. From what Ive 
seen, its accurate to say there had been an increase in their value. The brochure also 
acknowledged a reduction in trade in one of the existing premises said that the investments 
were to be used, to grow the business by refurbishing or adding new multi brand bars. 
Information about the new premises BN hoped to obtain was provided.
As addressed above, Im satisfied that information about security was accurate.
Overall, I dont think the information provided was inaccurate or misleading at the time. Its 
been said that the information was difficult to understand, but theres nothing to show that 
Mrs S sought clarification at the time and Im mindful that it was her decision to proceed with 
the investment. CS didnt advise her to do so.
Conclusion
Its incredibly unfortunate that the loan defaulted and BN ended up in administration, but 
taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that CS fell short in the way it promoted 
the increased target loan. From the information provided, I think its more likely than not that 
adequate due diligence checks were undertaken.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, but Im not upholding this complaint, so I wont be asking CS to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reason given above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman