DRN-2888487
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) did not match the specifications he had agreed 
with the dealership.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr G obtained a quotation for a new BMW from a dealership. The quotation 
included a number of options. Most significant amongst those  for reasons which will 
become clear  were 20 black alloy wheels and a reversing assist camera at a combined 
additional cost of £550. The total purchase price in the quotation was £64,670. 
The dealership found a car for Mr G and he entered into a four-year hire purchase 
agreement for it with BMWFS. The agreement recorded a cash price of £58,874; Mr G made 
an advance payment of £4,300.82 and was then to make monthly payments of £570.39, 
followed by an optional final repayment of £27,764.85.
In July 2018 Mr G took the car to a workshop to have one of the wheels repaired after he 
had damaged it. He was told however that it had already been refurbished, as had two more 
of the wheels. It transpired that the dealership had been unable to source a new car with the 
wheels Mr G had specified and so had swapped a set from an ex-demonstrator model. To 
put that right Mr G was provided with a new set of black alloys as he had originally specified.
Mr G then began to notice problems with the cars communication and entertainment 
system, in particular with the reverse parking camera. In July 2018 he took the car to be 
checked. He was told that the camera was in fact an after-market addition that was not 
BMW-approved. Mr G was told as well that it is not possible to fit a BMW-approved camera 
and that it was likely that the non-standard camera was causing other problems with the 
cars communication and entertainment systems.
Mr G contacted BMWFS. It acknowledged the problem and agreed that it would buy back 
the car, settle the finance and return Mr Gs advance payment. Mr G did not believe this 
went far enough and referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered what had happened.
The investigator noted that Mr Gs mileage was just under half the allowance of 8,000 miles 
a year set out in the hire purchase agreement. He therefore recommended that BMWFS: 
collect the car and end the finance agreement; refund 48% of the monthly payments made 
and all of the deposit; refund the cost of any insurance and extended warranty; pay interest 
at 8% a year on the refunds; remove any reference to the agreement from Mr Gs credit file 
and pay him £500 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put. The figure 
of 48% was based on Mr Gs actual use of the car against the mileage allowance.
Neither Mr G nor BMWFS accepted the investigators recommendation. BMWFS offered to 
refund 10% of the payments Mr G had made, the alloy wheel insurance and to pay Mr G a 
further £200. Mr G thought he should have all his payments returned. The case was 
therefore passed to me for further consideration.
Having considered what had happened, I issued a provisional decision. I noted that Mr G 
had not been provided with a car that met the description that had been agreed. I thought it 
was a term of the hire purchase agreement that black alloy wheels and a reversing camera 
would be fitted and that they would be new and standard. I noted that, whilst it was possible 
to replace the wheels with a set that matched what had been agreed, the same could not be 
said of the camera. 
The main issue I had to decide was therefore what BMWFS should do to put things right. I 
did not think it would be fair to refund all the payments that Mr G had made  to do so would 
provide him with a car for nothing. He should however be compensated for having a car that 
did not meet the description it had been given. I noted that the issue with the camera had 
affected the operation of other systems in the car. I thought that BMWFSs offer of a refund 
of 10% of the monthly payments made was fair and recommended that it make that refund, 
as well as refunding the advance payment and ending the hire purchase agreement. I also 
suggested a further payment of £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which Mr G had 
been put. 
BMWFS accepted my provisional conclusions but Mr G did not. He felt that they did not 
properly reflect what he considered to have been dishonesty in the sales process.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I agree with Mr G that BMWFS (and the dealership) did not 
provide him with a car that met the description they had agreed to. I agree too that he should 
have been told if it was not possible to provide him with what he wanted. I understand  as I 
have explained  that the issue with the camera cannot be rectified. 
However, my role in dealing with this complaint is not to punish BMWFS but to seek to 
resolve it in a way that I consider to be fair and reasonable. I have no power, for example, to 
fine financial businesses. 
Mr G says too that he feels that BMWFS is able to pick and choose which parts of the 
contract it adheres too. That is not however correct, and my provisional findings said that I 
believed BMWFS to be in breach of its contract with him. 
Putting things right
Mr G should be compensated for not having a car with all the features BMWFS agreed to 
provide. Since those features cannot be fitted to the car, it is fair in my view that he be 
allowed to return it. He has however had some use of it, although he should be 
compensated for his loss of enjoyment. 
My final decision
My final decision is therefore that, to resolve Mr Gs complaint, BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited should:
arrange for collection of the car at no cost to Mr G;
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund the advance payment of £4,300.82;refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr G has made;
refund any premiums Mr G has made for alloy wheel insurance; and
pay Mr G a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman