DRN-3657846
The complaint
Ms S complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms S was given a loan by 118 118 Money in February 2019. She borrowed £2000 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. At the time Ms S made her complaint, she had an 
outstanding amount to repay to a third party regarding this loan. This is because 118 118 
Money sold the debt on to another firm. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
118 118 Money gathered some information from Ms S before it agreed to lend. It asked Ms 
S about her income and expenditure. It carried out an affordability check online. It also 
carried out a credit check. Those checks suggested Ms S had enough disposable income 
each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Ms S was entering into a fairly significant commitment with 118 118 Money. She was 
agreeing to make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that 118 
118 Money wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms 
Ss financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were 
sufficient to achieve that aim. I think 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what 118 118 Money gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made 
a fair lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that 118 118 Money conducted. The search showed that 
Ms S was making use of credit available to her. She held a bank account with an overdraft, 
two credit cards, home credit and a hire purchase agreement. She also had a mortgage. 
118 118 Money verified Ms Ss monthly income to be £2390 and assessed her expenditure 
at around £1700. There has been some confusion up to now about whether Ms S was 
paying a figure of £220 for home credit a week or monthly. Our investigator calculated that 
Ms S was paying a weekly figure and upheld her complaint as they felt she was paying 75% 
of her income in credit commitments.
The credit report shows the home credit account as being a weekly payment. But the same 
credit report also shows how much Ms S is committed to repaying in all of her credit 
accounts, as a monthly figure. 118 118 Money added £220 as a monthly commitment and I 
currently think it was right to. When I consider how much Ms Ss verified monthly income 
was, and what 118 118 Money had assessed she had in essential spend, I think the credit 
she was looking to take out was affordable for her.
I think that the checks 118 118 Money performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that 
Ms S was facing any current problems in managing her finances. I think 118 118 Money was 
entitled to rely on what Ms S said about her finances, and what it had found out about her 
circumstances at the time. And that information suggested that she would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think 118 118 Money was 
wrong to give the loan to Ms S.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 118 118 Money said it agrees with the provisional decision. Ms 
S did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold 
Ms Ss complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman