DRN-2970036
The complaint
Miss W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was over seven years old and had covered 78,250 miles and as such it is 
reasonable to expect a degree of wear and tear. She says that she asked the dealer to take 
the car back within the first 14 days, though I have seen no evidence of this. She says her 
request was rejected. I understand it replaced the suspension bushes.
Miss W contacted Moneybarn on 27 April 2020, some two months after acquisition, 
expressing concern about the suspension bushes and the brakes. It says that she didnt 
raise any other matters. It asked an independent inspector to examine the car. The 
inspection took place on 28 May and he noted that the bushes had been replaced. In his 
opinion the car was in a fault free condition, with no evident defects.
I have noted that she took the car to a main dealer in July 2020. This shows that the air 
conditioning needed a re-gas, the handbrake required an adjustment, the brakes were 
approximately 90% worn and two bulbs needed to be replaced. The other issues raised by 
Miss W were not found to be faulty. It also said the satnav could be updated. 
I consider all of these issues to be wear and tear matters. For example, brakes suffer wear 
over time and it would appear that at the point of sale they were legal and although worn this 
does not amount to a fault which would allow me to support rejection. 
I have reviewed the cars MOT history and I see that it passed the test in February 2021 
having covered 104,821 miles. It failed initially due to several light bulbs not working and it 
carried an advisory that there was some play in the steering rack. None of these issues 
which were found a year after the point of sale can be said to be inherent faults. It is also 
noteworthy that the car had covered some 22,000 miles since the point of sale. I note that 
Miss W has suggested in an email that the odometer is faulty, but again I have seen no 
evidence of this and it was not something she raised earlier. 
Miss W has said that another garage looked at the car and found it to be faulty. We asked 
for a report, but this was not provided. Our investigator called the garage and spoke to a 
mechanic who said the car had multiple faults. However, despite repeated requests and 
asking Miss W to obtain a written report nothing has been received. I cannot say what the 
faults were to which the mechanic was referring, when they occurred or what were the 
causes. 
I acknowledge that Miss W has experienced some issues with the car, but with the evidence 
supplied I cannot say that these were present at the point of sale or were such that rejection 
is merited. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman