DRN-3043039
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2015, Miss C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Miss C decided to buy the system and finance it through a 
15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In April 2017 the CMC made a claim on Miss Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Miss C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £9,013.00 to 
mislead Miss C  this figure did not include any interest associated with the loan, so the 
true cost was £17,884.80. 
The credit agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments alone.
The system would not cost her a penny. 
She would make savings on her electricity bills.
The CMC also said: at the point of sale Miss C hadnt been given any estimated returns or 
contract; she had been pressured into signing the agreement and purchasing the solar panel 
system; Shawbrook had failed to assess Miss Cs creditworthiness; she had no warranty or 
guarantee despite being told the system would be under warranty for 20 years; and that it 
hadnt been explained that the performance of the system would deteriorate slightly year on 
year.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Miss C and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated December 
2013; copies of marketing material used by P; a job advert for P; and the loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. 
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Miss C or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it said:
The fixed sum loan agreement made it clear that the cash price of the system was 
£9,013.00 and the total amount payable, due to the associated interest, was 
£17,884.80.
The contract P had provided Miss C set out the expected total returns from the system 
and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was not self-
funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved.
The contract with P showed that the expected annual return in year one was £689.71, 
whereas the loan agreement repayments were £99.36 a month, or £1,192.32 over the 
year, so there would be a shortfall between the expected benefits and the loan 
repayments.
P said that Miss C had raised no concerns about being pressured into agreeing to the 
installation of the system and the associated finance, and she hadnt exercised her right 
to cancel the contract within the cancellation period.
The contract with P clearly says that the inverter has a 20-year warranty and that HIES 
had separately provided Miss C with her warranty / guarantee.
The performance of the system and any deterioration are set out in the contract.
As part of her loan application, Shawbrook had completed a full credit check to assess 
Miss Cs credit worthiness and her ability to repay the loan. Miss C had met its lending 
criteria and the account hadnt been in arrears. Shawbrook did offer to discuss Miss Cs 
ability to meet her future loan repayments. 
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Miss C to it.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. During our investigation Shawbrook provided 
an appendix of documentation between Trading Standards and HIES in relation to P. Having 
considered all the information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Miss C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
It felt the investigator hadnt been due diligent enough in reaching their opinion, 
especially when they have heavily relied upon a quotation that is unsigned on page 10 
and cannot produce any evidence of the correspondence of it ever being sent to Miss 
C.
The savings for electricity used should be calculated at 37% of the system generation.
It wasnt made clear to Miss C that she would need to make a monthly contribution to 
the cost of the loan each month.
The estimated performance over 20 years table doesnt compare the benefits against 
the loan repayments, this is a serious omission and reinforces our clients version of 
events.
The graphs on page 6 [in fact the graphs referenced are on page five of the quote]  
is extremely difficult to understand for anyone without prior knowledge of Solar, the 
Feed in Tariff scheme, savings with additional products to understand. Furthermore, the 
graph titled average monthly returns over 20 years is inconsistent as it shows an 
average monthly return of £165 per month. 
The OWL device which Miss C opted for as an extra to her solar panel system isnt 
guaranteed to generate any savings. Therefore, P shouldnt have relied upon it when 
calculating yearly benefits.A written statement from Miss C dated July 2015 was not taken into consideration by 
the investigator.
It also suggested that we speak to Miss C for her recollections. When our investigator spoke 
to Miss C, she told us:
A salesperson from P knocked on her door and sold her the system.
Before this she had no interest in buying solar panels.
The salesperson told her the system would generate enough to sell back to the national 
grid and then make enough money through FIT payments to cover her loan 
repayments.
She was told she would save money on her electricity bills, but this hasnt turned out to 
be the case.
She thinks she was told by the salesperson that the system would pay for itself after five 
years.
She understood that the system would be self-funding by saving money on her 
electricity bills and the money she would get from the FIT payments.
Ive reviewed Miss Cs complaint letter dated July 2015 and in summary it says:
Shes very unhappy with the service she has received from P.
P cold called her in February 2015, and she agreed for P to attend her property on 24 
February.
She was told by P that by installing solar panels her gas and electricity bill would be 
reduced.
She was told she would make a total saving per year of £987.00.
She had to chase for forms she needed to sign and it wasnt until P eventually 
responded to her several requests that an agent of P attended her property to get the 
forms signed. 
A surveyor from another solar panel firm visited her property and said that the solar 
panels were not lying flat on the roof. However, P disagreed and said they look fine.
Overall, Miss Cs letter centres on a complaint about the service shes received from P, 
rather than being a complaint about the system not being self-funding or having been 
misrepresented by P. 
As no agreement could be reached about how Miss Cs complaint should be resolved, the 
case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 75(1) 
says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
As Miss C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement arranged by P, Shawbrook 
accepts that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss C can claim against 
Shawbrook, as the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, as the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss C 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This says:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there is an unfair relationship.
Miss Cs recollection of the sale 
Ive listened to the call that Miss C had with our investigator and considered this along with 
the complaint the CMC submitted to Shawbrook. Ive noted that Miss Cs recollections do 
differ in some respects to the complaint letter submitted by the CMC. As an example, in the 
complaint letter the CMC says that Miss C was told the system would pay for itself over the 
loan term, but Miss Cs recollection is that she was told the system would have paid for itself 
after five years.
Having said that, there are also similarities between the complaint submitted by the CMC 
and Miss Cs recollection of the sale, for example that Miss C was cold called by P.
The complaint letter is dated April 2017, approximately two years after the date of sale, and I 
would expect this to reflect Miss Cs recollection of what happened at the time the system 
was sold.Whilst I appreciate Miss C has spoken to our investigator and provided additional information 
that wasnt included in the initial complaint made on her behalf, there is a significant time 
difference between the date the complaint was made and the conversation with our 
investigator. I think this may help to explain some of the inconsistencies I have highlighted 
above. I think that its reasonable to expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Miss 
C told it and her recollection of events at the time of sale, especially as the CMC has put the 
alleged representations in quotation marks. So, in so far as there are any discrepancies that 
have a material impact on my decision, Ive placed more weight on the submissions made in 
the original letter of complaint. Having said that, Im satisfied that Miss C was told that the 
system would be self-financing over the term of the loan.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided the CMC and Shawbrook. These 
include the credit agreement and Miss Cs solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering 
whether there have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Miss Cs recollection of the 
sale.
As previously mentioned, the CMC contests that Miss C ever received the quotation 
document. Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. 
This detailed that Ps sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers 
shortly after the initial meeting via email. Based on our experience of what we have seen 
with similar complaints, I think it more likely than not that P did send this document to Miss 
C.
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The quotation document
Miss C has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by his FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what she says she was told as I consider the quote was 
central to the sales presentation.
Page seven of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss C could expect to receive by 
way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Miss C could expect to receive 
a total income in year one of £466.45 from her FIT.
Page eight of the quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss C could expect from 
her system as well as any savings she would make from taking out any optional extras 
including a voltage optimiser and an OWL heating control. The expected year one electricity 
savings is £223.26 and the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1063.77. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The following page, page nine, has a section headed Repayments. This has three tables 
set out over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. The table for 180 months is 
highlighted in orange as this is the length of the loan that Miss C entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 monthly payments of £97.74 due and 
compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged over a monthly basis, 
against the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare her FIT income to her monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
her monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not persuaded that she was told that her 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Miss C has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,013.00. She has said 
that this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with 
the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £17,884.80.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Miss C makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£9,013.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total amount of 
credit is £9,013.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £17,884.80.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,013.00, it would cost 
Miss C more than this as she had decided to pay for it with a fixed sum loan.
Ill now consider whether P told Miss C that the system would not cost her a penny.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system against 
the expected net benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format 
comparing the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Miss C was expected to have made a 
loss of £9.09 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of £3.86 a 
month. It wouldnt be until the third year that the expected benefits would exceed her 
monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until around year 
five that she would have sufficiently recouped any previous annual losses and the system 
would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
and Im unable to conclude that Miss C was told that the system would not cost her a 
penny. I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between her expected 
income and monthly loan repayments.
In addition to this, page five of the quote has a graph illustrating the difference between the 
expected income and loan repayments in the first year:
Again, Im unable to conclude that the system would not cost her a penny as the graph, in
my view, clearly illustrates the expected shortfall between the expected income compared to
the monthly loan repayments.
Im satisfied that the quote makes it clear that Miss C would have to make loan repayments 
and overall there would be a deficit.
I also accept that Miss C was told by P that the system would pay for itself over the term of
the loan. Page 11 of the quote has a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years:
This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Miss C could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the total amount payable under her loan agreement. This table also sets out 
the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made her aware that performance of the 
system would deteriorate over its lifetime. The quote document also refers to any warranty 
associated with the system or the inverter and whilst Miss C has said she doesnt have a 
warranty, Im satisfied that this is not the case.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Miss C that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact and I were 
satisfied that this was what induced Miss C to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Miss C. The quote sets out that the system is expected to produce 
2,867.77 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT payments 
and savings in her energy bills that Miss C could expect to receive.
Between 31 March 2015 and 14 December 2016 (a 625 day period), the system generated a 
total of 5,177.66 kWh. I have calculated that the system generates, on average, 8.28 kWh 
per day or 3,023 kWh a year. This is higher than the estimated generation provided in the 
quote, so Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with, or in excess of, the quote.
So, based on this, I would expect Miss C to be close to recouping any initial losses from the 
system and for it to be paying for itself. Miss C has said that this isnt the case so Ive gone 
on to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and savings Miss C could 
expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable assumptions.
The quote P provided to Miss C was personalised to her specific circumstances and used a 
number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits she could expect to 
receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected annual 
generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system that Miss 
C would use rather than buying it from her energy provider, therefore leading to savings on 
her energy bills and the expected increase in utility prices alongside the expected annual 
increase in RPI inflation. The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote. 
The quote sets out that Miss C was expected to use, or self-consume, 50% of the kWh 
generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years annual saving of 
£223.26. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the ONS data Ive 
mentioned above.
When estimating the future income and electricity savings that Miss C could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases was 
8.42% and for RPI was 2.92%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy prices and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%. Both of these figures are lower than the assumptions 
used by P and in my view help to explain why she isnt receiving the financial returns from 
the system that she may have expected.
The assumptions used by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate the expected financial returns from the system. Im of the 
view that this goes some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding by year 
13 and certainly by the end of the loan term. Although I appreciate Miss C will be 
disappointed by the financial returns from her system, Im satisfied that this isnt due to P 
using unreasonable assumptions when she entered into the contract for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has said it paid 
no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation and Im of 
the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a court is 
unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that not all the evidence it had provided 
had been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along 
with the findings of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel 
hearing from December 2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant be sure that this 
was provided to Miss C or that it relates to the time her panels were sold. Whilst it does refer 
to the system paying for itself and being self-funding, Im not persuaded I can place much 
weight on this, especially when considered along with Miss Cs personalised quote. And, as I 
have explained above, at the time Miss C entered into the contract with P Im satisfied that 
her system would have been self-funding and pay for itself by year 13 of the loan.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013, almost two years 
before Miss C entered into her contract with P. Shawbrook has also provided information 
from Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to 
improve Ps sales process. This work included Trading Standards helping P to enhance its 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. 
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC findings found concerns with Ps sales practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved before Miss C entered into her contract and I have to take account of the 
particular circumstances of this case, along with the wider, contemporaneous evidence.
Miss C raised some concerns about Ps sales process, said that she was pressured into 
entering the contract and fixed sum loan agreement, and said a proper affordability check 
wasnt conducted and that she is now struggling to make her contractual monthly loan 
repayments.
Based on the available evidence that has been provided Im of the view that the sales 
process wasnt unreasonably pressured and, taking account of the overall cost of the system 
alongside the length of the loan term, I dont think the length of the meeting with P at Miss 
Cs home was unreasonable.
Im also of the view that the checks on whether the loan was affordable to Miss C were 
proportionate. 
Miss Cs later recollections
As previously explained, Miss C has provided additional information that wasnt included in 
the initial complaint made on her behalf and there is a significant time difference between the 
date the complaint was made and her later recollections. And, as I think that its reasonable 
to expect the CMCs letter to accurately reflect what Miss C says she was told and her 
version of events at the time of sale, Ive placed more weight on the submissions made in 
the original letter of complaint.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss C to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint and do not require Shawbrook 
Bank Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman