DRN-4212296
The complaint
Mr J complains to Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) about the premium required to renew his 
life cover.
What happened
In 2018, Mr J took out a Level Term Protection policy with Zurich. The policy provided life 
cover of £500,000 for a five-year term. Mr J included the optional extra benefit of being able 
to renew the term after five years without the need to provide further details about his health 
or activities.
Zurich wrote to Mr J in December 2022 to let him know his policy was reaching the end of its 
term. In the same letter they advised him of the new premium required should he wish to 
remain protected for a further five years. Zurich also advised Mr J, depending on his health 
and lifestyle, it may be cheaper for him to take out a new policy, as opposed to renewing his 
existing cover.
Mr J looked into the cost of a new plan and found the premium was cheaper. He didnt think 
this was fair as hed been paying for the renewable term option, so he complained to Zurich.
Zurich didnt uphold Mr Js complaint saying the renewability option meant at the end of the 
term they guaranteed to renew the plan for the same term and level of cover as the original 
plan free of underwriting  but that the premium would increase reflecting his ages, cost of 
providing cover at the time and smoking status at the start of the plan. Zurich said the price 
of renewing the existing plan was determined according to claims experience and their 
assumption on future claims for that portfolio of customers. They also said they were aware 
there are differences between their existing and new prices and that this is explained in the 
renewal notification.
Mr J disagreed with Zurich, so referred this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators looked into things but said she was satisfied Zurich had acted 
reasonably and had treated Mr J fairly. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything.
Mr J remained unhappy saying significant factors, which were the major reason for his 
complaint, didnt appear to have been prioritised. He said his complaint isnt about price, 
rather its about the misrepresentation of the renewal option which he paid extra for.
Mr J said Zurich clearly hadnt acted in line with the terms of the policy as theyd withheld 
information and should have been more honest about the renewal rate from the outset. He 
also said factors such as age, cost of providing cover and smoker status are all factored into 
the new application he made, which has offered a much lower premium. And that the 
renewal option should disregard health factors as this is the main reason for paying the 
additional premium in the first place. 
Because Mr J asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman, it has been passed 
to me to decide.
I sent Mr J and Zurich my provisional decision on 25 May 2023. I explained why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
First, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, and 
Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Mr J has confirmed his complaint isnt about price. The terms and conditions applicable to 
the policy set out that his payments would increase based on certain criteria should he opt to 
renew the terms. And Mr J wasnt expecting to pay the same premium hed been paying for 
the last five years.
Because this point isnt in dispute, Im not going to comment on it further in my decision. 
Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When taking out the policy Mr J included an optional renewable term benefit. This means if 
he wishes to extend his policy for a further term, equal to the original term and for the same 
amount, he can do so based on his health and activities at the start of the original terms  
without the need for further underwriting.
Essentially, Mr J paid for the option to ensure he could renew regardless should any 
deterioration to his health have occurred, or any change in his activities such as becoming a 
smoker have taken place.
Zurich have explained the price of renewing Mr Js existing plan is more expensive as it is 
free of underwriting. Essentially, they are taking on the risk of continuing cover regardless of 
Mr Js current health and lifestyle activities. They also say the cost is determined according 
to their experiences of claims together with their assumptions on future claims for that 
portfolio of customers.
Mr J disagrees he should be classed as being within a different portfolio of customers as to 
those applying for a new policy now. But as Zurich have explained, when designing a 
product there are many factors that determine the rate a premium will be calculated at.
Mr Js new premium has been calculated taking into consideration the design factors that 
apply to his policy. The new policy hes received a quote on isnt a renewal of the existing 
policy. Its a completely new standalone product.
Whilst the cover provided, both the amount and the term may be the same, they are two 
different products. And I cant agree Zurich arent using anything other than the normal rates 
that apply to Mr Js original policy, alongside considering what they know now, when 
determining the premium.  
I understand Mr Js frustration in that hes been quoted a cheaper price for a new policy and 
that he wasnt told this could be a possibility at the time. Providing he is presently healthy 
and has maintained the same standard of lifestyle activities, I can understand why he feels 
hes paid for an option for five years thats now worthless. 
But I must also consider that this complaint is being raised with the benefit of hindsight.There was no guarantee when Mr J originally took out the policy that this would be the case. 
The factors determining the cost of a new plan providing the same cover may have changed 
for the worse, resulting in a new plan being more expensive than the renewal option.
Further, any new quote obtained would be subject to underwriting  after which its possible 
the premium quoted could stay the same. However just as importantly, it could increase. And 
in the worst-case scenario, it may be determined Mr J cannot be covered at all.
Whilst I acknowledge, knowing what they know now, it wouldve been helpful for Zurich to 
have given Mr J this information, it isnt possible for policy terms to cover every eventuality. 
And there was no way for Zurich to have determined what would happened five years later 
at the time. 
And even had they done, while I cant be certain what Mr J wouldve done, Im satisfied on 
the balance of probabilities and without the benefit of hindsight, he wouldve included the 
option to renew. I say this because of the benefit it provided him to be able to continue cover 
should he have had a deterioration in health or lifestyle activities. 
Mr J has questioned why hes not being offered the rates presently available via Zurich, but 
essentially, he is. Zurich let Mr J know within his renewal letter. They said:
Depending on your health and lifestyle, a new plan might be cheaper than renewing your 
existing one. It may also provide options and benefits not available under your current plan.
However, should Mr J wish to take out a new policy it will be subject to underwriting. Mr Js 
renewal option does disregard any possible health factors that have materialised over the 
previous five years as he would be accepted for cover free of any further underwriting.
In summary, the benefit of this kind of policy is that if the health and lifestyle activities of the 
policy holder deteriorate in the first five years, theyd be able to renew the term of cover 
without underwriting. The inclusion of this benefit means the premiums are higher and the 
additional risk the insurer is taking is a factor considered at the time of renewal.
It may be Mr Js health remained the same, but at the time of taking the policy it wouldnt 
have been possible to know what might happen in the future. Essentially Mr J took out a 
policy that provides a benefit he now doesnt need to take advantage of, but that doesnt 
mean it was mis-sold or that Zurich have done anything wrong.
Had the health of Mr J deteriorated in the first five years then it seems most likely this policy 
would have provided the benefit of renewal without underwriting as a new policy might not 
have been possible, or at the very least more expensive.
For the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied Zurich have acted fairly and reasonably so 
unless anything changes my mind, I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
Zurich confirmed they had no further comments or evidence for consideration.
Mr J didnt respond to my provisional decision straightaway, so our Investigator sent a 
further copy by email on 15 June 2023. Mr J didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider following my provisional 
decision, Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached previously. 
For the reasons set out above in my provisional decision, I dont consider that Zurich needs 
to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman