DRN-2319939
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down his income protection claim.
 
What happened
Mr B took out the policy in July 2018. The aim of the policy was to pay a monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months in the event Mr B couldnt work in his occupation because of illness or 
injury. The policy had an excess period of 30 days.
In March 2020, Mr B was advised by his GP to self-isolate during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr B says he was considered to be high risk because he was having immune suppressing 
treatment for his condition of psoriasis.
Great Lakes representative advised all policyholders that Great Lakes would consider a 
claim if an insured was required to self-isolate. Mr B therefore made a claim under his policy. 
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said that Mr Bs condition of psoriasis was pre-
existing, and so his claim was excluded. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Great Lakes had 
acted fairly by turning down the claim. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, the policy required Mr B to be certified as until to work by his 
doctor, due to illness or injury. Mr B hadnt been certified as unfit to work by his doctor, and 
so based on the policy terms, his claim wasnt payable.
However, during the Covid-19 pandemic, Great Lakes representative sent Mr B a notice 
which stated:
Is self-isolation alone covered?
Should you be required to self-isolate and you have no underlying symptoms of COVID-19 
this situation is outside of the normal policy terms and conditions and therefore as standard 
will not be covered. 
However, if you have been medically advised to self-isolate because you have been 
identified as having a condition(s), or are taking medication, or receiving treatment, that puts 
you at the highest risk of severe illness if you catch COVID-19, please contact us once you 
have been unable to work for a minimum period of at least 30 consecutive days (or longer 
depending on the Excess Period you selected). We will arrange for a claim form to be sent 
so that your claim can be assessed
Please be aware that the standard policy terms and conditions exclude pre-existing 
condition(s) which arose prior to the start of a policy. Therefore, if you have been advised to 
self-isolate due to a pre-existing condition that you were aware of prior to taking out your 
policy then this condition may not be covered.
Its therefore the case that Great Lakes had agreed to consider a claim outside the normal 
policy terms, to recognise that someones medical condition(s) could prevent them from 
working due to the Governments requirement to self-isolate during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
That was up to Great Lakes, and wouldnt be a decision that I could require Great Lakes to 
make. 
Great Lakes has told this service that it didnt approve the document that its representative 
sent policyholders during the pandemic. Despite this, I see that it still considered the claim in 
line with this, which I think was reasonable. Though this did cause Mr B some unnecessary 
confusion because when Great Lakes initially assessed his claim, it didnt take into account 
that its representative had advised policyholders that it would consider claims where the 
insured was required to self-isolate. However, I see it has apologised to Mr B for this, which I 
think was appropriate.
After considering the matter again, Great Lakes then turned down the claim because it said 
Mr Bs condition of psoriasis was pre-existing (in other words, in existence before the policy 
started). Mr B accepts that his condition of psoriasis existed before he took out the policy, 
but he argues that he was only required to self-isolate because he was having immune 
suppressing treatment, which only started after hed taken out the policy.
The policy says the following about pre-existing conditions:
We will not pay Monthly Benefit if the Accident/Sickness results directly or indirectly from:
1) Any injury, illness, disease or sickness which is due to a Pre-Existing Condition
It wasnt accident or sickness that prevented Mr B from working, so its difficult to apply the 
above policy term to the claim. However, the notice sent to Mr B during the pandemic by 
Great Lakes representative does say that if he was required to self-isolate due to a pre-
existing condition, then this condition may not be covered.
Mr Bs GP says it was his condition of psoriasis and the treatment offered to him that put him 
in the clinically extremely vulnerable group, as well as him being asthmatic. Though even if I 
accept Mr Bs argument that it was the treatment alone which required him to self-isolate, 
Mr B was only having that treatment because of a pre-existing condition which was excluded 
under the policy. And so I think his claim was directly linked to his pre-existing condition.
On that basis, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Bs claim. Though 
as Ive said, its decision to consider the claim was outside the policy terms anyway. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman