DRN-2829394
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
Everyday Lending provided Mr S with loans as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
Loan one 26/10/2018 £3,500 36 Months £251.43
Loan two 31/07/2019 £4,000 36 Months £307.62
When Mr S complained to Everyday Lending it said it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks which showed that the loans were affordable for him and didnt uphold 
his complaint. So Mr S brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld as she didnt 
think that Everyday Lending shouldve provided either of these loans. 
Everyday Lending didnt agree with everything in our investigators view but it made an offer 
to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 2 and said it would take the steps needed to put 
things right in line with what wed expect a lender to do in these circumstances. 
Mr S doesnt feel this offer goes far enough to settle his complaint  hed like the complaint 
to settle in the way our investigator suggested. So the complaint comes to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. And having looked at the 
complaint afresh, I've come to the same overall outcome as our investigator. Ill explain 
why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Ss complaint.
As Everyday Lending has agreed to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 2 and do what is 
needed to put things right in line with our investigators recommendation, then I dont need to 
consider this loan further save to include it in the redress. 
Ill be concentrating in my decision on loan 1.
Everyday Lending asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. Everyday Lending 
checked Mr Ss bank statements to verify his income and was satisfied that it could rely on 
him receiving an average monthly income of at least £2,067.91. After doing its own credit 
checks and allowing for the amount it calculated that someone in Mr Ss situation typically 
spent on everyday living costs, and taking into account his rent each month, Everyday 
Lending worked out that Mr S should still have disposable income of approximately £404 
after taking out this loan. 
So, it felt the loan was affordable for him. 
I agree with our investigator that Everyday Lendings checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan application. But, like the 
investigator, I dont think Everyday Lending made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr S 
based on the information it had gathered.I say this because I dont think Everyday Lending thought carefully enough about what all the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Ss overall financial situation. Looking at its 
credit checks and the bank statements that Mr S provided to Everyday Lending, it could see 
that Mr S appeared to be in serious financial difficulty and that it didnt look like he was in 
control of his finances.
I think it should have been clear from the information it had gathered that Mr S wasnt 
managing to repay his debt and he appeared to be relying on new credit more recently 
obtained in order to manage his finances. It couldve seen from the bank statements it 
obtained from Mr S that he had taken out loans with other providers of high cost credit worth 
in excess of £4,000 throughout August and September 2018. The credit checks Everyday 
Lending obtained indicated that Mr S owed £3,093 on revolving credit accounts and that he 
had outstanding loan balances totalling £2,458. And Everyday Lending recorded information 
showing that Mr S had at least 13 expensive credit accounts and a total balance owing on 
those accounts of more than £8,500. He was often overdrawn on his current account and 
incurring daily overdraft fees. All this information painted a picture of someone whose use of 
credit had spiralled out of control and Mr S showed all the hallmarks of a borrower stuck in a 
cycle of high cost debt. 
I think Everyday Lending ought to have realised that Mr Ss loan application reflected his 
reliance on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that Mr S could repay further 
credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse consequences. I dont think, based on 
what Everyday Lending had in front of it, I can fairly say that Everyday Lending saw enough 
to reasonably be satisfied that Mr S was going to be able to make the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way  particularly bearing in mind that the loan amount was insufficient for Mr S 
to be able to make any meaningful impact on his overall outstanding credit debt within a 
reasonably foreseeable period of time, even after some debt consolidation. 
Ive thought carefully about what Everyday Lending said in response to our investigators 
view. I dont think the fact alone that this expensive loan was taken out to repay other 
expensive credit means it was fairly provided. I think the scale of his debts, compared to the 
much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that he would likely remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless. The total amount payable under this loan agreement was 
£9,051.48 if it ran to term. Even if Mr S had used this loan to repay some existing debt, 
I dont think Everyday Lending was able to safely say this wouldve benefitted his overall 
position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial 
situation.  
And given his recent borrowing, there was a real risk that Mr S might use this loan to help 
him meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the result this loan would simply 
add to his existing debt. 
For all these reasons, I dont think Everyday Lending could reasonably have satisfied itself 
that providing this loan to Mr S wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall 
debts and tying him into a high cost credit deal for the next 3 years that wasnt sustainably 
affordable for him. 
I think what I've said is borne out by the fact that when he applied for loan 2, Mr Ss credit 
position had worsened  and it looks like he still owed significant amounts to many of the 
same creditors. 
So I dont think Everyday Lending shouldve provided this loan. 
I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award, 
over and above the proposed redress which Ive set out below. But as Mr S has paid extra on loans that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what Everyday Lending did wrong. So, I think Everyday Lending needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for loans that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
Everyday Lending should buy back outstanding debt it has sold if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Lending should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
loans 1 and 2. The repayments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Lending should attempt to 
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr S, bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding these 
loans when paid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman