DRN-3142628
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd restricted his account and he is unhappy with the way they 
responded to his concerns about fraud. 
What happened
In January 2021 Revolut contacted Mr C via the app chat function to ask if he had ever lived 
on or been to a particular street. As Mr C didnt respond within seven days they restricted his 
account.
 
On 2 February 2021 Mr C realised his account was restricted and contacted Revolut. He 
was worried his account had been hacked. Revolut asked whether he had lived on the 
particular street, to which he replied no. Mr Cs account was unlocked on 3 February 2021. 
Mr C was still worried about why he had been asked this question and whether the security 
of his account had been compromised, and so through the app chat he asked for a call from 
the fraud department. Revolut advised Mr C that that their fraud department doesnt speak to 
customers, but they agreed to pass his concerns on. They explained that the checks were 
part of their standard security checks in line with their legal obligations. 
Mr C told Revolut that they had a legal and regulatory obligation to speak to him but Revolut 
maintained their position, continuing to deal with him through the app chat, and this cycle of 
communication continued for several months. Revolut issued a final response to his 
complaint on 19 February 2021.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. He thought that Revolut had acted in 
a fair and reasonable manner.  
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision 
which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all the chat notes with Mr C provided both by him and by Revolut, the 
account notes, and Ive seen the response to the further queries raised by our investigator.  
I can see that Revolut tried to contact Mr C via the chat function on 12 and 13 January 2021 
to confirm some information as part of a security check. In the second message they advised 
that if they didnt have contact in seven days they would restrict access to his account. On 
20 January, having had no response, they sent a further message to advise that the account 
had been restricted. As Mr C had been given warning that this would happen, I consider that 
Revolut acted fairly and within the account terms and conditions in placing the restriction on 
the account.   
Mr C became aware of this on 2 February 2021 and contacted Revolut through the app chat. 
He waited several hours for a response and was then asked to confirm whether he had a link 
to the particular address. Mr C confirmed that he didnt, and he was advised that the 
information was requested as part of the standard security measures. His account was 
reinstated during the afternoon of 3 February 2021. 
I can see from the chat notes on the morning of 3 February 2021 that Mr C remained 
dissatisfied about why his account was subject to extra checks and he was worried that he 
had been a victim or potential victim of fraud. He didnt feel that the reasons for this had 
been adequately explained to him.  Mr C asked for a phone call from the fraud team to 
discuss this and asked for a fraud case to be opened as he thought that as Revolut were 
asking him about an address that was nothing to do with him, he must have been a victim or 
potential victim of a fraud.
Mr C was advised that he couldnt be called by the fraud team and that the security checks 
that had been undertaken were part of standard security measures in line with Know Your 
Customer and Customer Due Diligence. However, Mr C still had difficulty accepting this and 
entered into a cycle of messages with Revolut lasting 4 months in which he repeatedly 
asked for a call and was told that was not possible. 
I can understand that Mr C was worried by the unsolicited contact from Revolut, the fact that 
his account was restricted, and being asked about an address that he had no connection 
with. However, having viewed confidential information provided by Revolut, I am satisfied 
that Revolut made a legitimate enquiry as part of their wider fraud and security obligations 
and they did nothing wrong in making contact through the app, or asking the question. I think 
that Revolut did provide some reassurance to Mr C that this was part of the standard checks, 
and whilst it would have been helpful if they had early on given clearer confirmation to him 
that they had no concerns about the security of his account, the information provided is 
adequate.
I can also see that in their final response on 19 February 2021 Revolut did explain that 
account security is important to them and that they are entitled to carry out any necessary 
checks to ensure account safety. That should have given Mr C some further reassurance 
that the checks were routine. 
Mr C has complained about having to use the chat function to discuss this concern and has 
asked repeatedly for a phone call. Revolut are an internet bank and their terms are clear that 
they usually communicate by app  so I dont think they have done anything wrong here in 
contacting Mr C through the app chat function. They have explained to Mr C both in the chat 
and in their final response that the fraud team would be unable to call him, but that the 
customer support team could speak to him, and calls were arranged for him although they 
didnt take place. Although this is disappointing, Im not sure this would have resolved 
matters in any event as Mr C had been clear in the app chat that he wanted to speak 
specifically to the fraud team. However, having offered a telephone call as an adjustment for 
Mr C, I think that they have offered a suitable alternative to the app chat and so I dont think 
they have done anything wrong here. 
Whilst I think some of the customer service provided on the app chat could have been better, 
I think that overall Revolut have acted fairly, and in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations and account terms. In view of the above I wont be recommending that Revolut 
do anything further.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
Revolut Ltd.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman