DRN-3889512
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Tesco Underwriting Limited handled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M contacted Tesco in June 2022 because his car had been damaged in an accident. 
Tesco said it wouldnt be economical to repair the car and wrote it off. It valued the car at 
£4,073. Mr M complained as he didnt think the valuation accurately reflected the market 
value for his car. Tesco said it had based its valuation on two industry guides and on the car 
being in below average condition with pre-existing damage to the front bumper. It said its 
engineer had deducted £500 from the retail value to account for this. Mr M wasnt happy with 
this response and so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Tesco had given Mr M a fair market value for his car. While 
Tesco had used two guides to value the car, our investigator used four guides. And those 
guides gave an average valuation of £5,095. They agreed it was fair for Tesco to deduct 
£500 from the valuation for damage to the front bumper and door. But they thought Tesco 
should have paid Mr M £4,595 rather than the £4,073 it had given him. 
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it couldnt see that a below average 
specification had been used for the calculation on Cazoo. And it noted that the three 
highlighted vehicles on the Cazoo valuation had much lower mileages than the car in 
question. Mr M thought Tesco should pay a fair price for his car, and compensation for the 
time hed had to spend looking for a new car. As both parties disagreed with the 
investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms insurance policy says that once one of its approved engineers has inspected and 
assessed a car as a total loss, Tesco will pay the policy holder the market value for the car. 
The policy defines market value as being the cost of replacing the car with one of similar 
age, type, specification, mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or damage 
happened. 
I should explain that its not my role to value Mr Ms car. This services approach is to assess 
whether the insurers offer is reasonable. This is a subtle distinction but its an important one. 
And in looking at whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably, I must bear in mind that 
valuing a car isnt an exact science.
Our service has a long-established approach to car valuations. It looks at the valuations 
given by the specialist on-line motor trade guides, as well as considering other information 
such as adverts. But we tend to find the guides most persuasive as theyre based on 
research across the country and work out the likely retail selling price rather than advertised 
asking prices.
In this case, Tesco used two guides, CAP and Glasss. It said these guides gave the 
following valuations:
CAP - £5,125
Glasss  £4,020
The average of those two figures is £4,573. Tesco deducted £500 from that figure to account 
for some pre-existing damage to the front bumper and door of Mr Ms car. It said this was 
50% of the cost of reinstating the car to new. Tesco paid Mr M a total of £4,073 in July 2022. 
I think it was fair for Tesco to deduct £500. It based that figure on the advice of its engineer 
who said it would cost £1,000 to complete manufacturer standard repairs to bring the car 
back to retail condition. On older vehicles in particular, its accepted that consumers would 
usually choose to seek a cheaper repair. So, we usually say its reasonable for insurers to 
deduct 50% of the cost of repairing pre-accident damage. And thats what Tesco did.
But what of the initial valuation? Our investigator did their own assessment using the same 
two guides used by Tesco and two different ones, Cazoo and Autotrader. I can see that they 
used the correct details for Mr Ms car, including the age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition at the time of the accident in June 2022. The CAP and Glasss valuations matched 
those of Tesco. While the two other guides gave the following valuations:
Cazoo - £5,746
Autotrader - £5,491
The average of all four valuations is £5,095. Thats £522 more than Tescos valuation. 
Would it be fair to ask Tesco to pay that additional amount? On balance, I think it would. Let 
me explain why.
Theres a significant difference between the lowest and highest valuations given by the four 
guides highlighted above. Tesco has queried the valuation from Cazoo, which provided the 
highest valuation, but I think its concerns are based on a misunderstanding of that valuation, 
which is based on extensive nationwide research of advertised prices from all the different 
sales channels. Its not based on two or three sales. In some circumstances, I might think it 
fairer to discount a guides valuation if its significantly out of line with the other guides, 
irrespective of whether its higher or lower than those guides. But, in this instance, the 
valuations are fairly evenly spread. Glasss is at the lowest end of the range but thats 
counteracted by the Cazoo valuation at the highest end of the range. Ive also carried out my 
own search and I think the average of all four guides provides a valuation in line with similar 
cars sold around the same time. So, on balance, I think the fairest outcome in this instance 
is to take an average of all four valuations.
Other issues 
Mr M thinks Tesco should compensate him for the time hes spent and inconvenience hes 
experienced having to find another car. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Tesco to do 
that. Unfortunately for Mr M he was always likely to suffer a degree of distress and 
inconvenience with a claim of this nature. The accident itself would have been stressful 
enough without then having to make a claim and go through the process of finding a new 
vehicle. But, as his insurer, Tescos responsibilities are set out in the terms and conditions of 
his policy. And in this instance, its responsibility was to pay Mr M the market value for his 
car. I dont think it got that quite right but, once its paid Mr M the additional amount Ive 
recommended, I think it will have met its obligations fairly and reasonably. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Putting things right
In light of all the evidence, Im not persuaded the valuation Tesco gave Mr M is fair and 
reasonable. I think a more reasonable valuation would be based on an average of all four 
valuations. That gives a figure of £5,095. As I think it was reasonable for Tesco to deduct 
£500 from that amount for pre-existing damage, the final valuation should have been £4,595. 
As Tesco has already paid Mr M £4,073, it should pay him an additional £522. I also think it 
should add 8% interest to that additional amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to do 
the following:
pay Mr M an additional £522 for his car;
add interest to that amount, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the claim 
was settled until the payment is made1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.