DRN-2955560
The complaint
Miss M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Miss M was in an accident. She didn't initially claim from her own policy but claimed from the 
other drivers (the third partys) insurer. The third party insurer had concerns about the 
evidence provided by both Miss M and its policyholder and declined to pay the claim.
Miss M submitted a claim to UKI. It looked into the matter and, eventually, told Miss M it 
wasn't going to pay her claim. Miss M wasn't happy with UKIs handling of the matter and 
brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think UKI 
needed to take any further action. Miss M didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss Ms raised a number of points. I've considered everything 
shes said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each 
and every point raised and instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of Miss Ms complaint. 
I need to say at the outset that its not my role to determine exactly what happened to cause 
a policyholder to claim on their insurance policy. Instead my role is to look at whether UKI 
has treated Miss M fairly and reasonably. And that means that UKI may make a decision 
Miss M doesn't agree with, but her disagreement doesn't automatically mean UKI has 
handled the matter unfairly.
Miss Ms policy requires her to notify UKI of any accident shes been involved in. But Miss M 
didn't do that initially and instead UKI found out from the third party insurer that shed been in 
the accident. At that stage Miss M confirmed to UKI that the accident had happened but that 
she didn't need its service because she was claiming directly from the third party insurer. 
The third party insurer refused to pay Miss Ms claim. I understand it felt that Miss M and the 
third party were known to each other before the accident and that some of the damage to 
Miss Ms car wasn't consistent with the accident Miss M described.
So, as the third party insurer hadn't paid her claim, Miss M claimed on her own policy. 
Miss Ms policy says that if her car is damaged in an accident, and she meets the policy 
terms and conditions, UKI will pay for the repairs to her car. Alternatively, if UKI deems the 
car to be uneconomical to repair - what's known as a total loss - it will pay her the cars 
market value. The policy allows UKI to decide how it will settle any claim. But, in order to 
make a successful claim Miss M needs to show that an insurable event, in this case the 
accident, has happened as she said it did. And if UKI has legitimate concerns that the 
accident hasn't happened as Miss M reported then it may fairly turn down her claim. 
In this case UKI noted that the third party insurer didn't believe the claim had happened how 
either Miss M or its policyholder had described. The third party insurer also said that some of 
the damage to Miss Ms car didn't appear to be related to this incident. 
Miss M gave UKI an engineers assessment of her car, prepared for her solicitors, which 
deemed the car to be a total loss. UKI looked at that and photos of her car after the accident. 
It thought the car was repairable. So it asked Miss M to tell it where the car was so it could 
move it to one of its approved repairers to assess. That assessment would have included a 
physical inspection of the car to decide if it could be repaired or if it should be a total loss. 
But Miss M didn't tell UKI where the car was and instead, around two weeks later, she told 
UKI shed sold the car for around £5,000.
UKI appointed a claims inspector to interview Miss M. Having done so UKI noted a number 
of discrepancies in Miss Ms account. For example, amongst other things, the place where 
the accident happened wasn't on any logical route to Miss Ms destination. Miss M 
suggested this was because she was unfamiliar with the area. She said she just went where 
the sat nav told her and it was possible shed missed a turning or two. But I don't think that 
reasonably explains why she was where she was when the accident happened. She would 
have needed to go some way beyond her intended destination in order to find herself in that 
location, so I'm not persuaded that this could be a result of an error with the sat nav or 
missing an occasional turning. 
Miss M also didn't provide any details, beyond the first name, of the person she sold the car 
to or any tangible evidence of having received the money for it. She said that while she did 
have a note from the buyer shed lost it when she moved house. And, as he'd paid her in 
cash, shed used that to buy things for her new home. She said she hadn't told UKI about 
the sale beforehand because she didn't think it would act in her best interests. 
However, whether or not Miss M believed UKI would act in her best interests she was fully 
aware, at the time that she sold the car, that UKI wanted to move it to its repairers so it could 
be assessed. Miss Ms said that she took advice from other companies which have the 
exactly [sic] the same role as my insurance company. I don't know who Miss M took advice 
from but unless she also had her car comprehensively insured with another insurer - and 
there's no suggestion that she did - then no other company would have had an identical role 
to UKIs. It would only have been UKI which insured Miss M on a comprehensive basis 
covering the loss of her car. So whoever she spoke to wasnt fulfilling exactly the same role 
as UKI. 
Miss M said she was told that it was legal for her to sell her car. And while I don't know who 
told her that, I note she didn't discuss this with UKI before taking that action. But, in any 
event, I don't think UKI has suggested that Miss M acted unlawfully by selling her car. 
However, in doing so, without giving UKI the opportunity to assess it, Miss M has prevented 
UKI from reasonably satisfying itself that the accident damage Miss M was claiming for was 
covered by her policy. In other words I think Miss Ms decision to sell the car as she did 
prejudiced UKIs position.
Miss Ms added that another engineer had already assessed her car as being a total loss. 
Shes said UKI should have accepted that engineers assessment. But I don't think that's 
reasonable. As I've said above, Miss Ms policy allows UKI to decide how to settle a claim. But it first needs to be satisfied that any claim is covered by her policy. And when 
considering that one of the things UKI might wish to do is to see if the damage to the car is 
consistent with the accident described. That's because, if that damage isn't consistent, then 
that might mean that the accident didn't happen in the way the policyholder said it did. And if 
that's the case then the claim might not be covered by the policy. I note in this case the third 
party insurer had said that some of the accident damage didn't appear to be related to the 
incident claimed for. So I think UKI had reasonable cause to be concerned. So I don't think it 
had to simply accept the engineering evidence Miss M had already submitted.
In those circumstances I think it would be reasonable for UKI to wish to see the car and 
decide if the damage to it was consistent with the reported claim. But as Miss M had sold her 
car before UKI could inspect it she denied UKI that opportunity. Further, I wouldn't expect an 
insurer to pay a policyholder for the total loss of a car where that car was repairable. But as 
Miss M sold the car UKI cant now fully assess exactly what damage was caused in the 
accident or whether the car was repairable or a total loss. 
Further Miss Ms suggested that, if UKI believes the car was repairable it should just pay her 
what it expected to pay to repair the car. But, as I've said above, because Miss Ms 
prejudiced UKIs position, it can't now know with any certainty what the precise nature of 
those repairs would have been, if they were necessary because of an accident that was 
covered by her policy, or exactly what they would have cost. And in those circumstances I 
think it was reasonable for UKI to have declined Miss Ms claim in its entirety. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman