DRN-3932442
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made 
after their house flooded.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P had a home insurance policy underwritten by esure. This covered their 
home and its contents, amongst other things.
They made a claim after their house  and several others in the same area  were flooded 
on 25 July 2021.
Mrs P and Mr P moved out immediately, with their family, into an Airbnb property they 
themselves found. esure paid for that accommodation for around a month, until longer term 
temporary accommodation was found.
They also accepted the claim and appointed contractors to strip out and dry the house 
before reinstatement works could begin.
In late August 2021, the loss adjuster appointed by esure noticed that the walls in the house 
werent drying as expected. A preliminary inspection suggested there might be an issue with 
damp in the house unrelated to the flood.
In mid-September 2021, the loss adjuster advised Mrs P and Mr P about these issues. And 
they decided to appoint a damp specialist to assess the problem and identify potential 
solutions.
It wasnt until January 2022 that esures loss adjuster appointed a damp specialist to inspect 
Mrs P and Mr Ps house.
Mrs P and Mr P didnt believe there was an underlying damp problem with their house. And 
discussions began about a possible cash settlement  on the basis that esure took no 
responsibility for any future loss or damage caused by damp in the relevant areas of the 
house.
A cash settlement was agreed and paid in mid-May 2022, which allowed Mrs P and Mr P to 
commission the reinstatement works themselves. I understand esure later paid a further 
smaller sum to cover work which hadnt been foreseen at the time.
Mrs P and Mr P werent happy with the way the claim had been handled and made a 
complaint to esure. 
They said there had been unnecessary delays in the claim which ultimately meant that whilst 
they should have been back in their house  with repairs all completed  by December 2021 
or January 2022, they didnt actually move back in until the end of July 2022.
They said esures agents had generally been disengaged, slow to respond to enquiries, 
failed to plan a way forward and had made numerous errors in their handling of the claim.
esure admitted that Mrs P and Mr Ps calls hadnt at times been handled as well as they 
would have hoped. They said theyd provided feedback to their contractors around delays in 
securing alternative accommodation. And they paid Mrs P and Mr P a total of £400 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset theyd been caused.
Mrs P and Mr P werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. They 
said the £400 compensation wasnt sufficient given the inconvenience and stress theyd 
been caused. And they pointed out that the stress had impacted on both Mrs P and Mr Ps 
health.
Our investigator looked into it and thought esure should increase the compensation theyd 
paid to £550 in total.
Whilst esure agreed to pay the additional £150 in compensation, Mrs P and Mr P disagreed 
with our investigators view. They still feel the compensation amount should be increased 
further and they asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about the final outcome of the claim. It was cash settled by 
agreement. And esure stepped in to cover additional costs after the reinstatement work had 
started. Ultimately, Mrs P and Mr P are back in their home, which has been repaired in line 
with their wishes.
The only question for me then is whether the compensation esure offered for the trouble and 
upset caused by their errors in handling the claim is appropriate and reasonable.
I have to bear in mind, of course, that having ones home flooded  and rendered 
uninhabitable for a period of time  is always going to cause a great degree of 
inconvenience, stress and worry.
esure didnt cause the flood and they arent responsible for the inconvenience and anxiety 
this understandably caused Mrs P and Mr P. 
They are responsible, however, for the additional inconvenience and stress caused solely by 
their errors in handling the claim  whether they be a lack of responsiveness or 
understanding towards Mrs P and Mr P or unnecessary delays in bringing the claim to a 
satisfactory conclusion. 
I dont intend, in this decision, to give a blow-by-blow account of who said exactly what to 
whom and/or who caused exactly what proportion of the delay and/or exactly how much of 
that delay was avoidable. 
Taking a broader perspective, Mrs P and Mr P were out of their home for just over a year all 
told. 
In the first two months or so, I dont think esure or their agents caused much, if any, 
avoidable delay. The loss adjuster inspected the damage from the flood promptly, strip out 
was carried out fairly quickly and drying began relatively soon after the claim was made.
I dont think esure or their agents were unreasonably slow to get alternative accommodation 
sorted either. This was in place before the Airbnb lease ended (around a month after the flood).
Im aware that Mrs P and Mr P think esures agents might have been more responsive 
and/or pleasant during the discussions about the alternative accommodation  and esure 
admitted that when they paid compensation to Mrs P and Mr P. 
And I know Mrs P and Mr P think it was stressful to get so close to the end of the Airbnb 
lease before the alternative accommodation was finalised. However, they did have very 
specific requirements  a family home, close to public transport to allow Mrs P and Mr P to 
get to work, and close to childcare facilities they used. 
I also bear in mind that other families displaced by the flood were looking for temporary 
rented accommodation in the same area (which is relatively close to the centre of London), 
which meant demand was even higher than usual.
In my view then, the issues began after mid-September, when the drying contractor said 
they couldnt reasonably carry on given that the walls of the house werent drying to an 
acceptable moisture level. 
At this point, the loss adjuster suspected an underlying issue with the damp proof course in 
the house. They were quick enough to decide that a damp specialists report was needed. 
But then failed to appoint one for the next three and a half months or so, eventually doing so 
in January 2022. I cant see any reasonable explanation for that delay.  
By that time, discussion had begun with Mrs P and Mr P about a possible cash settlement of 
the claim  based on the premise that Mrs P and Mr P would accept any risk that surface 
repairs might be carried out without addressing an underlying problem with damp. 
As Ive already said, esure thought there was a problem with damp. Mrs P and Mr P did not. 
And so, the agreement they came to had to reflect the fact that esure would not be obliged 
or expected to cover any future damage which might occur due to any underlying problems 
with damp in the house.
In mid-May 2022, the agreement was signed and the cash settlement paid. And Mrs P and 
Mr P put their contractors to work very soon after that. Between January 2022 and May 
2022, the scope of the repair works and costs were being negotiated between esure and 
Mrs P and Mr P.
It's understandable that there were complexities in those negotiations, particularly given that 
esure  perfectly reasonably - werent willing to accept liability for future damage caused by 
what they believed to be underlying damp issues. 
Its also fair to say that neither esure nor Mrs P and Mr P were obliged to concede their 
position in those negotiations just to make sure they were concluded more speedily.
So, I dont believe there were significant delays in the period through to May 2022 caused 
primarily by errors on the part of esure or their agents.
In summary, significant delays occurred when esures agents failed to appoint a damp 
specialist promptly after mid-September 2021. It might have been reasonable to take a few 
weeks to identify and appoint a specialist who could do carry out the required inspection. In 
fact, it took around three months longer than that.
As I say, esure have also admitted that the customer service provided to Mrs P and Mr P 
during the course of the claim wasnt of the standard they would expect.Putting things right
Taking all of that into account, I think the total of £550 suggested by our investigator is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset experienced by Mrs P and Mr P 
which resulted from esures or their agents errors.
We explain our approach to compensation on our website. We say that compensation 
between £300 and £750 is appropriate where a businesss errors have caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience or disruption to their customer(s), 
over many weeks or months.
In my view, thats the kind of trouble and upset Mrs P and Mr P suffered in this case as a 
result of esures errors. 
I have no doubt that, overall, the flood and its repercussions may have caused Mrs P and 
Mr P more upset, worry and inconvenience that that. And they have my sympathy over what 
must have been a very worrying and frustrating experience. 
But as I say, my concern in this decision is to try to separate out the additional trouble and 
upset they were caused by esures errors specifically.
In that context, I note the information Mrs P and Mr P provided about how their health 
suffered during the period in question. Again, they have my sympathy, but I think its likely 
that the main part of the stress they suffered was due to the flood rather than to the impact of 
esures errors specifically.
To put it bluntly, at best, the flood would have caused Mrs P and Mr P to move 
accommodation twice and to be out of their home for nine months or so (given the 
complications in the settlement of the claim mentioned above). 
And they would always have been told that the loss adjusters view was that there was an 
underlying problem with damp  something which Mr P has told us he found very stressful 
and which caused him some immediate issues with his health.
The net effect of esures errors alone was simply that that degree of worry and stress 
continued for three more months (of 12 months in total) than was absolutely necessary.
I understand esure have already paid Mrs P and Mr P £400 compensation. To be clear, Im 
satisfied esure should pay another £150 to bring the total compensation to £550 for the 
trouble and upset Mrs P and Mr P have suffered due to esures errors.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
esure Insurance Limited must pay Mrs P and Mr P £550 in total in compensation for their 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman