DRN-4327375
The complaint
Mr M complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to prevent the loss he 
suffered when he fell victim to a safe account scam.
Mr M has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly just 
refer to Mr M himself rather than the representative. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In October 2021 Mr M was sadly the victim 
of a safe account scam. A scammer had been able to make it appear as if he was calling 
from a number connected to Wise which gave Mr M confidence the call was genuine. 
Ultimately Mr M was told his account was at risk and was persuaded to make payments to 
the account details the scammer provided. Between 5 and 8 October 2021 Mr M made three 
transfers from his Wise account. The largest of these was for £2,005 and together they 
totalled £4,505. He was told the funds would be returned within 12 hours once his original 
account was secured. On 11 October 2021, Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam 
and reported this to both Wise and the Police. 
Wise contacted the recipient bank but were told that no funds remained. They also said they 
were unable to reimburse Mr M as hed made the transfers in question himself and they had 
no reason to intervene. With the help of a representative Mr M later made a complaint to 
Wise. When Wise maintained their position, the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr M has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam and that he has lost 
so much money as a result. But despite my natural sympathy, my role requires that I remain 
impartial and reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It would 
only be fair for me to direct Wise to do more, if they are responsible for errors which caused 
or contributed to his loss. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) is a scheme 
through which victims of scams can sometimes get their money back from the banks 
involved. But it is a voluntary code which Wise havent signed up to, and they arent required 
to do so. As such, the CRM Code isnt a consideration for this complaint. 
Wises first duty is to execute the payment instructions their customers provide. But they also 
have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. 
That being said, Wise should be on the look-out for payments that might be being made as a 
result of a fraud or scam with a view to protecting their customers. So, my next consideration 
is whether the payments were so unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious that I think Wise 
should have done more before processing them. 
There is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and facilitating 
customers free access to their funds. Ive considered Mr Ms points that two of the payments 
were made on the same day. And that the payments were for more than he typically sent 
from his Wise account. I agree that is the case. But even taking that into account, I dont 
think the payments relevant to this complaint were so unusual or suspicious that Id have 
expected Wise to have done more before following Mr Ms instructions. I dont think 
payments of that nature, made across several days were so indicative of a potential fraud or 
scam where that is a reasonable expectation. 
Unfortunately, it seems to be a common feature of scams like this that the funds are 
promptly moved on from the accounts into which they were paid. This would seem to be 
deliberate as an attempt to frustrate recovery efforts. I dont think Wise did anything that 
impacted what could be recovered from the recipient bank and its unfortunate that no funds 
remained. 
Again, Im sorry to hear Mr M has been a victim in this way and Ive no doubt as to the 
significant impact this must have had on him. But as I dont think Wise are responsible for 
anything that caused or contributed to his loss, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I 
can require them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman