DRN-3425519
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Z borrowed £1,000 from Madison in December 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 
12 monthly instalments of about £100. The total amount repayable was around £1,210. I 
understand Mr Z experienced difficulties repaying the loan and it was eventually sold to a 
third party.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think that Madison had been 
wrong to provide Mr Z with the loan. Mr Z disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. As 
the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Zs complaint.
Madison needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr Z irresponsibly. I 
think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr Z 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Madison make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr Z in some other way?
Madison was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Madison had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr Z. 
Madison had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr Z 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Madison had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Mr Z.
Madison asked Mr Z for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired a 
credit report. Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan 
was affordable for Mr Z.
Ive reviewed the information that Madison gathered at the time. The credit report indicated 
that Mr Z had outstanding credit of around £519 including a balance of £202 for an 
unsecured loan and £317 on credit cards. The balance to limit ratio was around 21%. There 
was some evidence that Mr Z had previously struggled to repay outstanding credit, but I 
think it would have been reasonable for Madison to have considered this adverse 
information to be historic. Overall, I dont think there was anything on the credit report that 
ought reasonably to have caused the lender any additional concerns about Mr Zs financial 
position when he applied for the loan. Or that should have led Madison to reasonably 
conclude that he may struggle to repay the loan sustainably and that the loan application 
should be declined.
I think that it was reasonable for Madison to make its lending decision based on the 
information Mr Z had provided and what it found in its reasonable and proportionate checks.  
I dont think greater checks were appropriate at the time. Given what Mr Z had told the 
lender about his circumstances, as well as the information gathered in the credit report, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Madison to ask Mr Z the amount of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the loan. 
I appreciate that Mr Z might feel his financial situation was in reality worse. But if it was, this 
doesnt appear to be something he shared with Madison at that time, or something that 
proportionate checks would have uncovered. Mr Z said he wanted to provide further 
evidence to support his complaint. But the document he provided was not legible and he has 
not provided any further explanation of why he thinks his complaint should be upheld. The 
deadline given for doing so passed some time ago.
Mr Z has complained that Madison didnt treat him fairly when he struggled to repay the loan 
during covid. But from what Ive seen, Madison did try to respond to Mr Zs difficulties by 
arranging for a short repayment holiday and trying to set up various arrangements to pay 
with Mr Z before the debt was eventually sold. 
I am sorry if Mr Z has struggled financially, but I cant fairly conclude that Madison treated 
him unfairly or acted irresponsibly when it agreed to provide the loan. Or that he was treated 
unfairly in some other way by the lenderI know Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
carefully considered all the information that has been provided about this matter. Having 
done so, I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman