DRN-4251726
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused to process a transfer 
for her in branch and they provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Miss P visited a branch of Halifax to make a transfer to a third party account. She says that 
despite having proof of identification such as a passport and driving licence, the cashier 
refused to process the transfer as she could not recall her Personal Identification Number 
(PIN). She says the cashier told her that she had sent a PIN reminder to her home address, 
but ultimately she was refused service. Miss P said she called Halifaxs complaints line as 
she hadnt received the PIN reminder, but the complaints handler informed her it hadnt been 
requested, so the complaints handler requested a PIN reminder for her. Miss P made a 
complaint to Halifax.
Halifax partially upheld Miss Ps complaint. They said there was a delay in responding to her 
complaint, so they offered her £30 compensation. Miss P brought her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator said he thought the £30 compensation was fair. He said Halifax 
confirmed the branch would use debit card and PIN to verify their customers and that this 
requirement is prompted by Halifaxs computer system. He said Halifax had followed their 
own security processes, which apply for all of their customers. He said Halifax also 
confirmed the transaction was completed the following day, so ultimately there wasnt a 
significant delay. Miss P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Miss P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their security policies and procedures such as the requirement for a PIN to be entered 
even if she had other identification. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Halifax to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
Halifax have explained that when conducting a transfer in branch, their security process is 
for their customer to present their debit card and PIN. As Miss P was unable to recall her 
PIN to process the transfer, I cant say that Halifax had done anything wrong by not 
processing the transaction, even if Miss P had to wait to be served, had brought other 
identification and was distressed and inconvenienced by what happened, as the cashier was 
following the security process.
Ive considered what Miss P has said about the cashier sending her the PIN reminder to her 
address but the complaint handler saying that this wasnt ordered for her. But Halifaxs 
system notes show that Miss P was asked to order a new PIN herself. When it comes to 
complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence available to 
me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats 
more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
On the balance of probabilities, I think it would be unlikely that a cashier would be able to 
order a new PIN reminder for Miss P. I say this because Miss P couldnt enter her PIN, so 
this would probably prevent the cashier taking action on her account, such as ordering Miss 
P a PIN reminder. But Id be unable to prove whether she was told to order a PIN reminder 
herself or not as I wasnt in the branch at the time of the incident. Ultimately, Halifax have 
confirmed that Miss P managed to make the transfer the following day, so Im not persuaded 
the PIN reminder issue had a significant impact on her making the transfer.
Halifax offered Miss P £30 for delays in responding to her complaint. Im satisfied that this is 
fair as the delay wasnt prolonged. Im persuaded that this is proportionate and recognises 
that the delay had an impact on Miss P. Her transfer had already been completed prior to 
her making a complaint, so the delay in the response did not impact on the transfer she 
wanted to make. So it follows that Halifax should pay Miss P the £30 they offered her, but I 
dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Miss P £30. But I 
wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman