DRN-2573154
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different business 
name) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds as the business that sold the PPI to keep things simpler.
What happened
Mrs F took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in 1999. 
The PPI covered Mrs F for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected her 
mortgage monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mrs F told us that PPI wasnt something she needed and she took it out because she was 
led to believe it was part of the mortgage and she couldnt have the mortgage without PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Lloyds has sent me a copy of Mrs Fs mortgage application. This included a PPI section  
but its very hard to see details because the copy is very poor quality. So Im not relying on 
this. 
I've taken carefully into account what Mrs F remembers and what shes said about how the 
PPI was sold to her. But I cant know exactly what was said when Mrs F arranged her 
mortgage and the PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect her to recall precisely what was 
discussed at the time. This means that what Mrs F says now isnt enough on its own for me 
to be able to uphold her complaint.
In order to uphold Mrs Fs complaint Id have to find it likely that she wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to her account without her proper consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the very limited information Ive got. I must look at the 
available information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial. 
I appreciate that Mrs F is certain about what shes told us. But based on the information Ive 
seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that it was added to 
Mrs Fs mortgage without her consent. 
I say this because her mortgage was a major financial commitment which she signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. Mrs Fs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and it looks to me as if Mrs F 
couldve found PPI useful if shed needed to claim. I can see why she might reasonably have 
felt that having PPI was worthwhile for her.
Its completely understandable that Mrs F mightve forgotten some of the details from the 
sale. Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Lloyds 
didnt make it clear that it was open to Mrs F not to choose PPI if she didnt want to have it. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mrs F wanted to have the benefits the policy offered, 
and PPI was added to her mortgage account at her request when she chose to protect her 
home by taking out this insurance. 
Lloyds couldnt say for certain how it sold this PPI to Mrs F but she told us she took out the 
PPI in one of its branches. And Lloyds says it wouldve advised her to take out PPI in these 
circumstances. So, to be as fair as possible to Mrs F, Lloyds looked at this complaint on the 
basis that it personally recommended PPI to Mrs F with her mortgage. I think this is the 
fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable. Looking at the complaint this way gives Mrs Fs complaint the best 
chance of succeeding as it puts some additional obligations on the bank. So I agree this is 
fair given the lack of information. And thats how I've looked at this complaint as well.
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mrs F applied 
for PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use by the time her mortgage 
started shortly afterwards  so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mrs F 
took out wouldve had the same or similar terms and conditions. 
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable for Mrs F based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time. 
Mrs F said she was in well paid employment and she wouldve received between 
3 and 6 months sick pay sick pay from her employer. But if she was off work sick, PPI 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit for longer than this - up to 12 months per claim. So the PPI 
provided better protection than she couldve relied on getting through her employer. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay from work. I think this couldve been very useful if 
Mrs F wasnt able to work as she alone was responsible for making her mortgage monthly 
repayments and she mightve had some extra expenses to meet as a result of being sick or 
disabled. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. PPI is intended to provide protection in 
the event of unforeseen events. The policy wouldve also paid a monthly benefit for up to 
12 months per claim in the event Mrs F lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Mrs F told us she was always able to rely on her parents for financial assistance. And Ive 
taken into account that she did benefit from her parents money some six or seven years 
later when she was able to use this to clear her mortgage. But Mrs F couldnt have known for certain that she would always be able to count on having 
her parents money to fall back on when she took out her mortgage in 1999. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. So her parents 
financial situation doesnt mean that a PPI recommendation wasnt suitable for her when she 
arranged this PPI  and it isnt a reason for me to uphold her complaint.
There was no guarantee when Mrs F took out this mortgage that she would always have 
savings to rely on. The amount of savings shes mentioned isnt enough to make me think 
that the PPI wouldnt still have been useful. 
Mrs F told us she kept around £2000 to cover emergencies. 
So I think its likely she wouldve valued the protection PPI offered. Having PPI meant that 
Mrs F could be sure shed be able to pay the mortgage monthly repayments without 
breaking into her savings which she mightve needed to rely on for other costs if she wasnt 
able to work.   
Looking at Mrs Fs overall circumstances at the time, I can see why she mightve been 
persuaded that this was a worthwhile policy to buy. I think it offered her potentially useful 
benefits in her particular situation.
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if 
that affected Mrs F. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
her off taking it out.  
Mrs F was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions 
that applied. 
She hasnt said anything to make me think the policy wasnt affordable for her. 
This was a policy she paid for monthly. So if she didnt want to pay to keep it running Mrs F 
couldve cancelled the policy any time at no extra cost. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think having clearer 
information wouldve stopped her buying it.
On balance, there isnt enough information for me to say that Mrs F has lost out as a result 
of anything Lloyds did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment overall. And Im sorry that its 
taken such a long time to issue a final decision. But I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman