DRN-2723203
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the charges shes been asked to pay when she returned a car after 
her hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust Bank Plc had ended. She feels these are 
unfair and wants them to be removed.
What happened
Mrs B took out a hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust in June 2017 for a used car. 
The price of the car was £3,595. The agreement was for this amount less a deposit of £50. It 
was to be repaid over 56 months. The car was around seven years old and had covered 
around 66,500 miles.
 
In October 2020, after a change in her circumstances, Mrs B decided to hand the car back to 
Secure Trust. She asked it to voluntary terminate the hire purchase agreement. But after the 
car was collected, Mrs B got a letter from Secure Trust asking her to pay £350. This was 
because the vehicle inspection had found several items of damage and the service history 
was missing.
 
Mrs B refused to pay this. She complained to Secure Trust. She told it there were a few 
dents on the car when she got it. Mrs B also said she handed everything, including the 
service history, to the collection agent.
 
Secure Trust partially upheld Mrs Bs complaint. Briefly, it said there wasnt enough evidence 
to support one of the charges  for a dent to the front offside door. So it agreed to remove 
the £50 charge for this item. This reduced the amount owed to £300.
 
But Secure Trust said there was a dent to the rear bumper and a scratch to the front 
bumper. It told Mrs B it would review the charge for the dent to the rear bumper if she could 
provide evidence that this was already there when she got the car. Similarly, it said it would 
also review the charge for the missing service history if she could provide evidence that the 
car had been correctly serviced.
 
Mrs B wasnt happy with this. She brought her complaint to our service. In the meantime, 
Secure Trust wrote to her offering a further 10% reduction on the amount outstanding  
reducing it to £270. But she refused this. She told us she didnt think she should be paying 
anything, and the terms and conditions dont say she should have taken photos of any dents 
already on the car when she got it.
 
One of our investigators looked into this. He didnt think Secure Trust had done anything 
wrong. In short, without proof the damage was already there when Mrs B got the car, he felt 
the charges for damage to the front and rear bumpers were fair. Our investigator also said it 
would be fair for Secure Trust to remove the charges for the missing service history if she 
could provide evidence the services had been carried out. 
Mrs B then sent us copies of her bank statements showing payments to a servicing company 
in both August 2019 and August 2020. Another of our investigators told Secure Trust she 
thought this was sufficient evidence that Mrs B got the car serviced while she had it. The 
investigator also said that without proof that the disputed damage was present when Mrs B 
got the car, it was fair and reasonable for Secure Trust to charge for this.
 
Secure Trust agreed and removed the £170 service charges from the £300 outstanding. It 
also agreed that Mrs B could still benefit from a 10% reduction on the remaining balance of 
£130 if she settled her account in full  leaving £117 to pay. 
Mrs B didnt accept this. She repeated that the car was already damaged before she got it. 
She was also unhappy that Secure Trust hadnt investigated how the service history shed 
given to the collection agent had gone missing.
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: is it fair and reasonable for Secure 
Trust to ask Mrs B to pay the charges for the damage to the front and rear bumpers?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
Ill now turn to the disputed damage to the front and rear bumpers. Ive looked at the terms of 
the hire purchase agreement Mrs B had with Secure Trust. These state that she agreed to 
pay for any damage to the car, other than that due to fair wear and tear, even if the damage 
was due to events beyond her control. I can see Mrs B signed this agreement in June 2017.
 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA).  This guidance is generally 
intended for the return of new cars. But it can also be used for older cars where the age of a 
car and the number of miles its covered are taken into account. Ive taken those factors into 
account here.
 
I would note that while the car was around seven years old when Mrs B got it, and had 
covered just over 66,500miles, the price of it  £3,595  was consistent with that for a car in 
good condition. Ive also borne in mind the BVRLA guidance is just that, guidance. While I 
take it into consideration, I also need to take into consideration whats fair and reasonable in 
the situation here. 
 
The disputed damage relates to a dent on the rear bumper and a scratch to the front one. 
Ive looked at the inspection report. The dent is on the swage line. The scratch is longer than 
25mm and is through the paintwork. From this, Im satisfied both items of damage fall 
outside the BVRLA guidelines of what is fair wear and tear. Secure Trusts charges for these 
items are £70 and £60 respectively  a total of £130. 
I can see Mrs B has consistently told us the car was already dented when she got it. When 
Mrs B complained, Secure Trust reviewed the inspection report. It agreed to remove the 
charge for a dent to the front offside door as it didnt think the report contained enough evidence to charge for this. Im satisfied Secure Trust acted fairly and reasonably by 
removing this charge.
 
Secure Trust also told Mrs B if she sent in proof the car was already dented when she got it, 
it would be happy to review this. Again, I think this is fair and reasonable. As above, the hire 
purchase agreement states Mrs B agreed to pay for any damage to the car that went beyond 
fair wear and tear. As Mrs B hasnt provided any such proof to back up her testimony that 
the car was already damaged, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Secure Trust to charge 
for these items. Theres just no basis for me to tell it to remove these charges.
 
Ill now turn to the missing service history. Mrs B is adamant this was given to the agent who 
collected the car from her. I accept this. I can see she wants to know where this paperwork 
went and feels Secure Trust havent looked into what happened. I would make it clear here 
that I cant force Secure Trust to find out what happened to the paperwork. As our 
investigator told Mrs B, Secure Trust cant say for certain where the service history went.
 
But I think it acted fairly and reasonable when it agreed to review the charges if Mrs B 
provided proof the car had been serviced. When she did this, Secure Trust did indeed agree 
to remove the £170 charge for the missing service history. Again, Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable. So, I dont require Secure Trust to do anything further in respect of this.
 
In summary, in the situation outlined above, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Secure 
Trust to charge Mrs B a total of £130 for the damage to the bumpers. If it hasnt already 
done so, it should remove the £170 charge for the missing service history from Mrs Bs 
account, leaving a balance of £130 outstanding. Im pleased to see Secure Trust has agreed 
to reduce this by a further 10% to £117 if Mrs B pays this amount in full. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Secure Trust Bank Plc should, if it hasnt already done so, reduce 
the outstanding balance on Mrs Bs account as outlined in my findings above.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman