DRN-3400528
The complaint
Miss G complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) provided a poor service 
under her home emergency cover and didnt fully resolve her claim.
What happened
Miss G made a claim to British Gas when she identified an issue with her kitchen taps. 
British Gas attended and made a temporary repair, but it wasnt successful. Miss G said 
British Gas visited over ten times to try and fix or replace the taps and to deal with other 
linked problems and a new issue in her bathroom, including low water pressure and 
temperature issues with the water.
Miss G explained to our service the vulnerable circumstances of her family, which she said 
meant the issues caused a high level of distress and inconvenience. She was also 
concerned with the frequency of British Gas engineers entering her home whilst Covid-19 
was still in circulation. British Gas finally fixed the issue with the water pressure in the 
kitchen when it identified and removed an obstruction in one of the pipes.
British Gas said In recognition of the inconvenience and distress caused by the length of 
time required to rectify the issues and also taking into account the number of visits that were 
required, I have organised for you to receive a payment of £150 as a gesture of goodwill. 
British Gas decided to increase the compensation offer to £350.
Later, Miss G said when British Gas visited to resolve her water pressure in her bathroom, 
its engineer asked Miss G if she had experienced a leak under her bath. Miss G said she 
wasnt aware of one. Miss G said two weeks later, when she was cleaning she removed the 
panel of the bath and saw everything under the bath was soaked and rotten. Miss G called 
British Gas who despatched an engineer. British Gas said the leak was an existing issue so 
wasnt covered by the policy. As the previous engineer hadnt raised the issue, Miss G 
thought this was unfair, so on escalation British Gas agreed to fix the leak under the policy 
by fitting a new connector.
Miss G checked the leak the following morning and said water was pouring down the side of 
the pipe. She spoke with British Gas and it dispatched another engineer who fixed the leak. 
Miss G said the engineer said the leak hadnt been fixed properly before. Miss G said she 
still has a problem with the water pressure in her bathroom and the leak has potentially 
caused thousands of pounds worth of damage to the floor, skirting and tiles in her bathroom 
and to the ceiling below. Miss G wants British Gas to resolve the issue with her water 
pressure. She has made a claim to her insurer for the damage to her bathroom and ceiling 
below. If she is financially out of pocket after this claim, she thinks British Gas should pay for 
any shortfall.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought British Gas had provided a 
poor service in needing so many visits to rectify the initial issues, but he thought the 
compensation British Gas offered in the circumstances was fair. However, as British Gas 
hadnt contested what Miss G said about the issues in the bathroom, he thought British Gas 
should repair the poor water pressure. He didnt comment on the damage aspect of the 
claim. As British Gas didnt respond to all the issues, the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 25 February 2022. I said:
I have reviewed whether the offer of £350 compensation for the initial issues was fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have reviewed the evidence and I think its clear that Miss 
G wouldve been distressed and inconvenienced, especially due to her vulnerable 
circumstances. Miss G wouldve needed to escalate the issue several times and multiple 
visits from British Gas were required. This wouldve taken up Miss Gs time, but also caused 
her problems in dealing with her family circumstances.
I can see that in more recent correspondence Miss G had a telephone call with our 
investigator and he noted [Miss G was offered an [additional] £200 compensation and [Miss 
G] accepts this aspect of the complaint as resolved. I think the £350 compensation offered 
(in total) is fair. Whilst I think the distress and inconvenience wouldve been significant, it 
only lasted a few weeks, so I think the compensation is offered is in line with what our 
service would normally offer. It also appears Miss G was comfortable with this offer in her 
latest communications, so I wont consider this point any further.
Ive then gone on to consider the points Miss G made about her water pressure in her bath 
still not being fixed and the potential damage from the leak under the bath. Miss G has said 
the issue with the water pressure in the bath was raised with British Gas and hasnt been 
resolved. British Gas hasnt contested what Miss G has said, so I have no reason to doubt 
this. Therefore, I uphold this aspect of the complaint. I intend to require British Gas to 
resolve the issue with the water pressure in the bath. As Miss G has vulnerable 
circumstances, I think this is an issue that will have caused her ongoing distress and 
inconvenience, as it will have added to the difficulties she has in supporting her family. 
Therefore, I intend to award Miss G a further £100 compensation for this issue.
Finally, I have considered what Miss Gs said about the potential damage caused by the leak 
in her bathroom and ceiling below. British Gas hasnt provided a response to Miss Gs 
account of the potential damage which she thinks has been caused by the leak. So, I dont 
have any evidence to contradict what Miss G has said. Therefore, if British Gas error has 
led to repairs being required, I would expect British Gas to cover these costs. So, I intend to 
require British Gas to cover these costs provided Miss G can evidence the repairs needed 
were due to British Gas error and she is able to provide receipts to support this 
expenditure. 
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Miss G says she is still out of pocket following the claim and so, she doesnt think the re-
dress is enough. However, Miss G hasnt provided any further evidence to support her 
statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Resolve Miss Gs issue with water pressure in her bath
Cover the cost of any repairs that Miss G has to pay due to British Gas errors 
(provided Miss G has evidenced that British Gas error caused the need for a 
repair and she has provided receipts to evidence the cost of the repairs)
Pay £100 additional compensation for distress and inconvenience (in addition to 
the £350 offered for the previous issues, if it hasnt paid it yet)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman