DRN-1904632
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs S complain that CIS General Insurance Limited trading as The Co-operative 
Insurance caused damage to their home whilst carrying out repairs under their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs S had a home insurance policy underwritten by CIS General Insurance 
Limited (CIS).
They made a claim in August 2018 having discovered a water leak in their kitchen. CIS 
accepted the claim, carried out repairs and moved Mr H and Mrs S into alternative 
accommodation until the work was completed in mid-July 2019.
In late August 2019, Mr H and Mrs S discovered a further water leak in their kitchen. They 
made a claim to their new insurer (not CIS) and repairs were carried out. However, Mr H and 
Mrs S had to pay the £600 excess related to that claim.
Mr H and Mrs S say the second leak was the result of damage caused by CIS contractors 
when they were carrying out the repairs after the original leak. They say a pipe which took 
waste water from their washing machine, dishwasher and sink to the outside of the house 
was dislodged  at the point it met the outside wall  by the contractors.
They complained to CIS, but CIS said the pipe wasnt damaged by their contractors and may 
have been in poor repair before the first leak occurred. 
Mr H and Mrs S werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think CIS had done anything wrong.
Mr H and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
They maintain the damage was most likely caused by the contractors. They want CIS to pay 
the £600 excess on their second claim (made to the other insurer). They also want CIS to 
refund the £500 excess on the original claim and pay the fee of around £100 they paid for an 
emergency plumber to stop the second leak. They also want compensation for their trouble 
and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a relatively simple issue. It comes down to whether its most likely CIS contractors 
caused damage to the pipe or the damage was caused by something else.
If CIS were responsible for the damage, then I would agree they should pay the excess on 
the second claim, pay for the emergency plumber and pay for the trouble and upset the 
second leak caused Mr H and Mrs S. 
Im not sure why Mr H and Mrs S think CIS should refund the excess on the first claim, but 
that may be a redundant argument in any case, because I dont think CIS have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in taking the position they have on this matter. Ill explain why.
When the original leak was discovered, an engineer from an entirely different business 
attended. Its not entirely clear to me why, but thats not important. The significant point is 
that when the claim was made to CIS, it was stated that the leak was identified as being from 
the washing machine.
CIS proceeded with the repairs on that basis. And didnt carry out an inspection to check all 
other possible sources of the leak  particularly along the pipe run. To do so would have 
involved unnecessarily (it seemed) taking out kitchen units that werent being replaced as 
part of the work.
There are, broadly, two possibilities here. 
One, as Mr H and Mrs S suggest, the contractors damaged the pipe when they were 
carrying out the original repairs. Mr H tells us the contractors needed to take out the back of 
the cupboard under the sink  which the pipe passed through. He says that would have 
required considerable force, which may have caused damage to the pipework further along 
the run. 
Two, as CIS suggest, the pipework was already in a poor state of repair  particularly at the 
point where it met the wall. But this was an area they didnt check because they were told 
the leak was from the washing machine - and had no access to the pipework as it passed 
through the wall anyway.
CIS also suggest the original leak may have been from the pipework near the wall, rather 
than the washing machine, but admit this is speculation at this point. Mr H and Mrs S say the 
engineer who diagnosed the original leak was clear that the source was the washing 
machine.
When Mr H and Mrs S made their complaint to CIS, CIS asked them for evidence that the 
contractors had caused the damage. They were particularly interested in what the 
emergency plumber who stopped the second leak had to say about the source of the leak 
and the nature of the damage to the pipework.
I dont think thats unreasonable. I dont think CIS could be expected to accept that their 
contractors had caused the damage without some evidence about the source and cause(s) 
of the second leak. It was already six weeks or so after Mr H and Mrs S had moved back in  
so any damage their contractors had left  particularly if theyd dislodged the pipe 
connections at the wall  might have been expected to have led to more serious leakage 
much sooner. 
Mr H told CIS he wouldnt be able to get a report from the emergency plumber  although its 
not clear why not. When we asked Mr H, he was able to find the invoice for the emergency 
work, but this doesnt provide any indication about what the source of the leak was, the 
nature of the damage, or the likely cause of the damage.The insurer which dealt with the second claim cant shed any light on the specific causes of 
the second leak, because by the time they attended any damage had been repaired by the 
emergency plumber.
So, theres no way to be sure as to whether the pipework was damaged  at the junction 
with the wall  by CIS contractors applying force some way back down the pipework to 
remove the back of the cupboard when they carried out the original repairs. Or whether the 
pipework was otherwise in poor repair already. Or, indeed, damaged after CIS had 
completed their repairs.
CIS position was made more difficult by the fact they didnt attend the original leak right 
away and didnt diagnose the problem(s) after a detailed inspection. That was carried out by 
the engineer from the other business, as mentioned above. 
In that context, I cant conclude theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably in not immediately 
accepting that their contractors caused the damage which led to the second leak. They did 
ask Mr H to provide further evidence or information  particularly from the emergency 
plumber - which might enable them to come to a firm conclusion, but he said he couldnt or 
wouldnt do so.
Id expect CIS to consider any further information or evidence which Mr H and Mrs S can 
provide. But as things stand, given the information currently available, I dont think CIS 
position is unreasonable or unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman