DRN-3620200
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (LB) declined his credit card payment when he was 
on holiday outside the UK. 
What happened
Mr H has held a LB credit card account since 2008. 
In or around March 2022, Mr H left the UK on a pre-planned holiday and took his LB credit 
card with him. During the holiday, Mr H wanted to take advantage of various services offered 
by the hotel he was staying in. As he needed to pay for these separately, he attempted to 
use his LB credit card in the hotels chip and pin card device. But the transaction was 
declined by LB. A second attempt later resulted in a further decline.
Mr H couldnt understand why his card was being declined when he knew he had sufficient 
funds available. So, he decided to call LB to find out more and complain about his 
experience. 
LB established that Mr H had attempted to use his LB Avios branded credit card. They said 
this card had been deactivated and couldnt be reactivated. LB said a replacement 
Cashback card had been issued to him. Mr H told LB they hadnt notified him about that, and 
his existing Avios card was still within its expiry date. He wanted to log a complaint and 
thought LB should pay compensation for the embarrassment caused.
LB responded to Mr Hs complaint in a letter shortly after. They said a letter had been sent to 
him about the withdrawal of the Avios branded card and it was this card hed tried to use on 
holiday. But it had been blocked and closed in June 2021, so couldnt be used. They also 
noted that Mr H appeared to have completed an online transaction with his new card in 
February 2022. They didnt think thered been an error so didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr H wasnt happy with LBs response. So, he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
He said, It would seem that LB had sent out a newcardI had forgotten that I had put this 
away in our safe. Mr H said hed successfully used his old card online on at least three 
occasions since June 2021, and there was nothing to suggest it wouldnt continue to work 
until its expiry. Hed also spoken to LB since whod said that the new card retained the same 
16-digit number and security code as his old one. They thought this was why his online 
transactions had been successful. Mr H thought the security code shouldve been changed 
as this wouldve prevented the problem he experienced.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think LB had done anything wrong 
or treated Mr H unfairly. Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He pointed out that whilst 
LBs literature had confirmed his card would stop working, theyd suggested existing 
recurring transactions would continue. He felt this was misleading given hed successfully 
completed new online transactions after the cards deactivation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr Hs complaint 
here. It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or ask a business to alter their 
policies or procedures or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their 
customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Hs experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations where they apply.
LB have explained the reasons for the withdrawal of their Avios branded credit card. I dont 
propose to explain those here as I dont believe theyre relevant to Mr Hs complaint. 
However, the impact of that change saw LB write to all of its existing Avios rewards 
customers in April 2021 to explain that a new Cashback reward scheme would be introduced 
from 1 June 2021.
LB sent a letter to Mr H around that time which included a replacement credit card under the 
new Cashback reward scheme. That letter said, Your Avios Rewards Mastercard will stop 
working on 31 August 2021, and any transaction made on your card after this date will be 
declined. Any recurring transactions already set up will continue to be taken as normal. The 
letter goes on to ask Mr H to replace his old card with the new one issued and securely 
destroy and dispose of the old (Avios) card. 
I think these instructions are very clear and easy to understand. But it seems Mr H chose not 
to do this. Due to his personal circumstances at the time, he chose to securely store his new 
card and continue to use his old one. Its unfortunate that he then forgot about the new card. 
But I cant reasonably hold LB responsible for Mr Hs decision and actions here.
Mr H has said, and LB has confirmed, the new card was issued with the same 16-digit 
number and the same security code. That was LBs process and policy and this service is 
unable to comment on or change that. I can only consider if this led to Mr H being treated 
unfairly or unreasonably. And as LB had told him well in advance, as they did all their 
customers, I cant say that was the case here.
Credit cards can be used in a number of ways to complete a transaction. Broadly speaking, 
these are split into situations where the cardholder is either present or not present. 
Commonly, cardholder present transactions involve a chip and pin process. Here, the card is 
inserted into a merchants payment processing device and data from the card is used to 
identify and authorise the transaction. 
Where the cardholder isnt present, the card details are usually provided including the 16-
digit number on the front of the card together with a three-digit security code. These are 
verified against the consumers personal details and the process may also include an 
enhanced level of authentication before approval (e.g. using a unique code sent by SMS text 
message).
The successful online transactions completed by Mr H meant the cardholder (Mr H) wasnt 
present. By that, I mean he wasnt physically with the merchant inserting his card into a chip 
and pin device. And because the details of the card used were the same as on the new 
replacement card, there wouldve been no way for LB to distinguish between the old and 
new cards. So, I can understand why they were processed successfully.
Mr Hs attempted transaction at his holiday hotel was a card holder present transaction. So, 
the card was physically used. And the information on the chip wouldve identified it as Mr Hs 
old deactivated card. This is what happened when Mr H was on holiday. The process 
identified Mr Hs old deactivated card and understandably declined the transaction.Mr Hs holiday experience was clearly very unfortunate. To find himself overseas in a 
situation where he doesnt have a valid credit card could be very worrying and at the very 
least, inconvenient. So, I can appreciate his strength of feeling here. Particularly as he feels 
he was placed in a very embarrassing position when his card was repeatedly declined. 
Having carefully considered all Mr Hs comments together with the information and evidence 
available, I cant reasonably say LB did anything wrong here. They notified Mr H well in 
advance of the changes to his card and account and sent a new card in plenty of time with 
clear instructions. So, while I do appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, I wont be asking LB 
to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman