DRN-1938327
The complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by AXA 
France IARD to Mrs P in 1999 in connection with a store card.
What happened
Mrs P bought a store card and PPI in 1999 during a telephone call. She said she has no 
recollection of a PPI sale. AXA is dealing with the complaint. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that Mrs P hadnt been 
given enough clear information to make an informed choice  particularly as she was 
affected by the exclusions and limitations on the policy.. 
AXA France disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint for the reasons set out below.
AXA said the PPI was bought from a sales representative. This was a non-advised sale so 
AXA had to give Mrs P enough clear information so she could make an informed choice.
I dont know how Mrs P was given information about the policy terms and conditions  
particularly the information about the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). And I 
dont know exactly what she was told or when. AXA said it sent the policy with full details of 
the insurance - including the exclusions and limitations  and the levels of cover. But it looks 
like this was sent to her after the sale. So it is possible that Mrs P may have continued with 
her purchase without being aware of the full terms and conditions. So I think AXA did 
something wrong in the way it sold this policy to Mrs P.
This is important because Mrs P has confirmed she had a pre-existing medical condition. 
Under the exclusion clauses in the PPI policy relating to pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs 
P wouldnt have been able to make a claim for any condition she had at the start of the 
policy. The possible effect is that Mrs P wouldnt have been covered by the PPI policy if she 
needed to make a claim due to the pre-existing medical condition - which AXA accepts she 
had at the start of the policy.
As Mrs P was suffering from a medical condition, she may have been receiving treatment to 
control it and it was likely to continue. Its also clear to me she would have been aware of her 
condition at the time of the sale. I think it is unlikely that she would have been able to claim 
for any complications arising from the original condition.So I think the exclusion clause could have limited the usefulness of the policy to Mrs P and 
this clause should have been highlighted to her more clearly. I am satisfied that AXA 
probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear way to Mrs P during the sale 
process. As a result, this was a failing in the sale. I think that if Mrs P had been properly 
informed about the exclusion, she wouldnt have gone ahead with buying the PPI policy 
given her circumstances at the time.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold so I uphold this 
complaint. I think AXA has to put things right for Mrs P.
My final decision
AXA France IARD should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she 
closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So it should remove 
the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It 
should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Mrs P owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P 
would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA France IARD works out what Mrs P would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs P paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France IARD 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs P paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs P wouldve owed AXA France IARD something on 
her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA France IARD should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. AXA 
France IARD must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and AXA France IARD should put things right 
as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman