DRN-1464596
The complaint
Mr M complains that subscription payments continued to leave his current account 
after Barclays Bank UK PLC told him they'd been stopped. 
What happened
Mr M says subscription payments were being taken from his Barclays current account by a 
company I'll call "A". He says Barclays refunded these and issued him a new card  which it 
told him would stop the payments. But more were taken. I can see that one payment went 
out to A in December 2018, followed by four more on a monthly basis between February 
and May 2019. Barclays raised a successful "chargeback" claim for him, and he received a 
refund of the payments A took in June 2019. It also cancelled a "continuous payment 
authority" on his account to prevent A from taking further payments.
In September 2019, Mr M complained to Barclays about what had happened. He said he'd 
visited a Barclays branch about the issue, and he'd been told that no payments were being 
taken. He only found out that (more) payments had gone out when he visited another branch 
several months later. He therefore thought the initial branch worker he'd spoken to might be 
responsible. 
Barclays said it had tried to speak to Mr M about the allegation hed made about the staff 
member  but he hadn't been willing to discuss this. In any event, the payments had been 
refunded and it had removed A's authority to take any more. It accepted that Mr M 
received poor service in branch and offered him £100 compensation for this. Due to an error 
crediting this to his account, it increased the compensation by £25  to £125 in total. 
Unhappy with Barclays' response, Mr M referred the matter to our service. He said the 
payments caused him stress and left him in debt. Our investigator was satisfied that 
Barclays had fairly resolved the complaint. They didn't think Mr M had substantiated the 
allegation he'd made about the staff member. They also thought he hadn't been left 
financially disadvantaged as the payments had been refunded  and didn't appear to have 
caused him to go into debt or incur charges. Overall, they thought the £125 compensation 
offered was fair. 
As Mr M doesn't accept the investigator's view, his case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. He still thinks Barclays is responsible for the payments that were taken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached  and for largely the same reasons.
It's not our service's role to punish businesses; we don't make punitive awards. Our role is to 
determine whether the business made an error  and if so, what (if anything) it needs to do 
to put the complainant back in the position theyd likely be in but for the mistake. So when 
making my decision, I've considered whether Barclays acted (or failed to act) in error  and if 
so, what impact this had on Mr M.I know Mr M thinks a Barclays staff member may have set up the payments. But he 
hasn't provided any persuasive evidence to substantiate this allegation. So I agree with the 
investigator that this isn't the more likely explanation. It's not particularly clear how the 
payments to A were set up. Regardless, they've now been refunded. And Im satisfied they 
didn't cause him to fall into debt or incur any bank charges. Barclays only applied one fee 
during this period, for an unpaid transaction  and it doesn't appear this would have been 
avoided but for As payments. Ultimately, Mr M hasn't been left in a worse financial position 
due to the payments A took  meaning theres no financial loss to redress.
I've also considered the non-financial impact on Mr M arising from any mistakes by Barclays. 
It's not particularly clear what was discussed during the branch visit he's complained about. 
But what he's said about this  which Barclays hasn't disputed  suggests it missed an 
opportunity to stop or prevent the payments. It concedes that it provided poor service. I 
consider it likely this caused him distress when he found out months later that multiple 
payments had been taken. So it's fair that Barclays compensates him for this.
I've looked at how Barclays responded when it became clear that A was taking payments. It 
appears to have claimed these back promptly, minimising the amount of time Mr M was left 
out-of-pocket. It also put an instruction on his account to try to stop any future payments. I'm 
satisfied this was a fair and reasonable response  and that it would have alleviated Mr M's 
worry when he found out about the payments.
Taking all of this into account, I'm satisfied the £125 compensation Barclays has already 
offered fairly reflects any distress and inconvenience Mr M suffered due to errors by 
Barclays  and is in line with awards we've previously made in similar cases. So Im not 
awarding more compensation or directing Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered Mr M £125 to settle the complaint. In all the 
circumstances, I think this offer is fair. So my final decision is that Barclays should pay Mr M 
£125, if it hasn't already done so. This sum should be paid within 28 days of being notified 
by us of Mr M's acceptance of my decision, failing which interest will accrue at the simple 
rate of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly 
deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman