DRN-2520262
The complaint
Miss H complains about the service received from National Savings and Investments (NS&I) 
when trying to register for online and phone services.
Miss Hs complaint has been brought by her father on her behalf, who I will refer to as Mr H. 
What happened
Miss H holds premiums bonds with NS&I, which were opened for her some years ago. 
Shortly after Miss H turned 16, NS&I says it sent her a letter explaining that as she had 
turned 16, she would now be able to manage her accounts herself. The letter explained that 
NS&I needed to complete some checks as it was the first time Miss H would have access to 
her account. It directed her to the website to find out what she needed to do. 
A few months later, Mr H called NS&I. He said Miss H had tried to register online for the 
online and phone services, but it had failed. The adviser he spoke with explained that as 
Miss H had the premium bonds set up before the age of 16, she wouldnt be able to register 
online. Miss H would need to complete the relevant form and send it in the post, along with 
an independent witness signature. Mr H was unhappy with this and had several calls with 
NS&Is advisers where he raised concerns, including:
Miss H was unable to register for online and phone services and NS&I wasnt able to 
explain why.
Mr H was told that NS&I use a credit reference agency to conduct checks when 
customers attempt online registrations. He thinks its unfair to conduct these checks 
on 16-year-olds who will automatically fail as they wont be on the electoral roll.
Mr H is unhappy that Miss H would need to register by post and would need an 
independent witness signature. He says this would be difficult, particularly during the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
One of the advisers Mr H spoke with explained that the independent witness 
signature couldnt be from a family member. When Mr H wanted a definition of 
family, the adviser said this would be someone who was related by blood or law.   
Mr H was unhappy with that definition, and that the adviser couldnt point to where 
this was written in NS&Is policies.
An adviser later told Mr H that in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, customers may be 
able to provide a covering letter explaining that they wouldnt be able to get an 
independent witness signature. Mr H is unhappy this wasnt explained before and 
thinks this goes against NS&Is original processes.
Mr H says he had to wait for a long time in the queue before being put through to an 
adviser.
Mr H is unhappy with the tone of one of the advisers he spoke with. He also raises 
concerns about the knowledge of the advisers, as he was put on hold several times 
whilst they were finding answers to his questions.
NS&I reviewed Mr Hs concerns. It thought it had correctly explained that registration for 
online and phone services had to be done by post, along with an independent witness 
signature, when a customer turns 16. NS&I did, however, agree that one of the calls couldve 
been handled better by its adviser and arranged for £30 compensation to be sent to Mr H by 
way of apology.
Mr H was unhappy with this response. Amongst other things, he was disappointed that all 
the calls werent listened to as part of NS&Is review. He was also unhappy that the £30 
compensation was arranged without being discussed with him first and pointed out that it 
was Miss H who had been caused upset. NS&I reviewed matters again and ultimately 
arranged for a further £50 compensation to be sent to Miss H. Mr H remained unhappy so 
came to our service, on Miss Hs behalf.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought NS&I had followed its processes 
correctly in relation to registering Miss H. He ultimately concluded that NS&I had responded 
fairly to the complaint. 
NS&I didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr H did, and mostly repeated his earlier 
points. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my reasons why.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
NS&I has explained that due to Miss Hs age, there wouldve been an ex-minor marking on 
her account when she tried to register online. Additionally, the credit reference agency that 
NS&I use wouldnt have been able to generate any questions for her because of her age. 
Therefore, the process for customers in Miss Hs position is to register by post and provide 
an independent witness signature. In the welcome letter NS&I sent to Miss H, it directs her to 
the welcome section of the website which is clear about whats required. So, Im satisfied 
that the information the advisers gave Mr H when he called was in line with NS&Is 
procedures, and I dont consider that Miss H has been treated unfairly here.
When Mr H told NS&I that getting an independent witness signature would be difficult, it 
explained that this was the process Miss H would need to follow. It later came to light that 
there was an alternative to this process, which was to provide a covering letter. Mr H was 
unhappy this option wasnt conveyed to him earlier. He also said he wanted written 
confirmation about this before he would provide the covering letter.
I think it wouldve been helpful if NS&I had been clearer about this alternative process 
earlier, and whether or not it was able to provide written confirmation of what Mr H was 
asking for. However, not long after being told about the alternative process, Mr H was able to 
send in an independent witness signature  which makes me think this wouldve been an 
option earlier. In any case, NS&I has since offered compensation and an apology for its poor 
service. Considering that Miss H wasnt caused financial loss and, ultimately, she was able 
to access her account within a few months, there isnt anything further I think I can 
reasonably ask NS&I to do here.As I understand it, Mr H has some ongoing questions about the online registration process 
and why Miss H failed. But ultimately, as NS&I has explained, this process wasnt meant for 
Miss H given that she was an ex-minor. Instead, the process was for the registration to be 
completed by post, with an independent witness signature. In any case, matters have since 
moved on as Miss H has since been successfully registered. And, my understanding is that 
Mr H is currently pursuing this matter through the Information Commissioners Office. So, I 
wont be commenting on this point further.
Overall, I think NS&I couldve provided better customer service. However, I consider the 
apology and the compensation its already paid (£30 to Mr H and £50 to Miss H) to be fair, 
especially considering Mr H isnt an account holder and therefore isnt eligible for 
compensation, and Miss Hs involvement in this matter has been limited.
My final decision
I dont think National Savings and Investments needs to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
Miss H, to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman