DRN-4486823
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money they lost in a 
scam.
What happened
What Mr B and Mrs B say:
In April 2023, Mr B got a phone call from a police officer to say theyd arrested someone 
who had stolen Mr Bs debit card. They asked Mr B to withdraw £7,000 for it to be 
investigated for money laundering/fraud. Mr B visited a branch of Lloyds and withdrew 
£7,000. The police officer visited his house and Mr B handed over the money. He later got a 
further call from the police who said that 60% of the money had been so used and asked 
him to transfer another £24,000 for the same purpose. When Lloyds blocked the payment 
and called him, he asked Lloyds not to make it - as he then realised this was part of a scam.
Mr B said the police officer knew the balance of his account and told him how to answer the 
banks questions. The lost money was:
Date Withdrawal Amount
17 April 2023 Cash from branch £7,000
17 April 2023 Online payment £24,000 (stopped)
Mr B says Lloyds shouldve protected him when he made the cash withdrawal. He said when 
he visited the branch, it was busy. The cashier didnt ask him any questions, didnt provide 
scam warnings in any detail, and pushed a leaflet on scams under the security glass. He 
said she didnt read out any scam disclaimers. He says Lloyds shouldve done more and 
should refund the money.
What Lloyds said:
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. They said the voluntary industry code 
called the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) didnt apply  as it didnt cover cash 
withdrawals. When Mr B spoke to the police officer, he still had his debit card  so he must 
have realised it hadnt been stolen. They said Mr B shouldve confirmed the identity of the 
police officers he spoke to but didnt.
Lloyds had spoken to the member of staff who served Mr B. She said she recalled the 
transaction and discussed it as being unusual. She recalled Mr Bs story - that he had sold 
their house and wanted to buy his wife a new car, and it was a certain make and colour. 
Lloyds said they asked Mr B if hed been called by anyone, and he said he hadnt. Later, 
when he was questioned about the online payment for £24,000, he admitted he had been 
called by someone.
Our investigation so far:
Mr B and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
considered it was most likely the branch staff did ask sufficient questions about the 
withdrawal, and therefore didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B and Mrs B asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint, and so it has come to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B and Mrs B have lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question 
that Mr B authorised and consented to the cash withdrawal in this case. So although Mr B 
and Mrs B didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, they are presumed to be liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the withdrawal was in cash and handed to the scammer. 
I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B and Mrs 
B when they made the withdrawal or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
If the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of character with how Mr B and Mrs B 
normally used the account  then we would expect Lloyds to have intervened and spoken to 
Mr B about it. 
I looked at Mr B and Mrs Bs account, and its reasonable to say that the cash withdrawal of 
£7,000 was unusual. The account was used for day-to-day expenses and receipt of a regular 
pension payment. The average balance was around £300 credit  until a large credit of £88,853 was received in March 2023  I presume this was the sale proceeds of the house 
sale. There were then two payments of £10,242 and £10,465 on 3 April 2023. But its fair to 
say that the cash withdrawal of £7,000 was unusual. And therefore, Lloyds shouldve 
questioned it.
And Ive seen that Lloyds did ask Mr B questions in the branch. We asked Lloyds for their 
version of the visit. They provided the branch testimony  which said:
- Mr B said theyd sold their property and bought a new one, hence the high balance 
on the account.
- When they moved, Mr B promised his wife a new car, and the cash was for that 
purpose.
- He was asked if Mr B had got a call from someone claiming to be the police and he 
said no, he hadnt.
- Mr B was given a fraud leaflet and scams warnings were read out, with disclaimers.
- Mr B was relaxed and laughed at one point.
- Mr B was adamant it wasnt a scam and went on to describe the work they were 
carrying out on the new house.
I can see that Mr B doesnt agree with this  he says the branch was busy; the leaflet was 
pushed at him; and no scam warnings or disclaimers were read out. And Mr B has told us 
hed been coached how to respond to the banks questions.
So here, I must decide what, on the balance of probability, what likely happened. And the 
important point here is that the branch testimony, from the named cashier  is dated 11 May 
2023. So  it is very soon after the withdrawal on 17 April 2023 (just over three weeks). So  
I place a good deal of credibility on it and am persuaded that it is a fair and accurate version 
of what was said and what happened.
Therefore, on balance, Im persuaded that Lloyds did what they needed to make Mr B aware 
of the risks he was undertaking, asked him sufficient questions and provided enough 
warnings.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. 
I looked at whether Lloyds took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that received the 
funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. In this case, this wasnt possible  as Mr B 
handed the cash to the scammers, so Lloyds wouldnt have been able to trace the funds 
through the banking network or contact a recipient bank.
In summary, Im sorry Mr B and Mrs B have had to contact us in these circumstances. I 
accept theyve been the victim of a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold Lloyds 
responsible for their loss here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman