DRN-2761220
The complaint
Mr R wants Paragon Finance PLC trading as Moorgate Loan Servicing (Moorgate) to 
refund charges that he says are unreasonable.
What happened
In 2005 Mr R entered into a loan agreement with a business that I will refer to as E. Due to 
personal circumstances, the account fell into arrears. In 2008 E started proceedings to 
repossess the property against which the loan was secured. 
The court agreed to suspend the order for possession on terms and Moorgate later bought 
the loan account from E in 2013.
Once Mr R had settled the loan in 2020, he complained to Moorgate that unreasonable fees 
and charges had been added to his account while he was in arrears. Moorgate said Mr R 
had left it too long to raise a complaint as more than six years had passed since the charges 
had been applied.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. She explained that 
although Moorgate had replied to Mr Rs complaint about the charges, it shouldnt have done 
so. This is because the fees and charges were added to Mr Rs account by E not Moorgate.
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He didnt think it was a fair 
outcome. Mr R thought that when Moorgate bought the account, it bought the liabilities too. 
This view was reinforced by the fact that Moorgate was able to give him a full account 
statement. Mr R pointed out that E was registered at the with the Financial Services 
Authority.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it was confusing for Mr R when Moorgate responded to his complaint to 
say that hed made it too late for it to consider. Its unfortunate that Moorgate didnt realise 
straightaway that it wasnt responsible for the charges and instead issued a final response to 
Mr Rs complaint. But this doesnt change my decision that Moorgate isnt responsible for the 
disputed charges and fees.
Mr R identified just under £980 of charges that he says were unfairly applied to his account. 
From looking at the statement that Moorgate gave to him, these included arrears charges 
and solicitor costs. The fees were applied between July 2006 and December 2008 (although 
the November and December 2008 fees were reversed). This was several years before 
Moorgate bought the loan account.
Although Moorgate was able to give Mr R a full statement of account, it was E that applied 
the charges  not Moorgate. As the investigator explained to Mr R, Moorgate bought the 
right to collect the debt from E. This doesnt mean that it is liable to refund charges and fees 
that were applied to the account before Moorgate purchased it.
The investigator told Mr R that the original creditor E is no longer an active business. I can 
see from the Companies House record that E was dissolved in 2017. Its a shame that this 
means that Mr R can no longer bring his complaint to E  even though it was regulated in the 
past. But this doesnt change my decision that Moorgate doesnt need to take any further 
action. Im sorry that this is likely to be a disappointing conclusion for Mr R.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman