DRN-2787235
The complaint
Mr M complains that the lending provided to him by PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M was provided with four loans by Mr Lender between January and October 2017. The 
details are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Amount Instalments
1 25/01/2017 13/02/2017 £500 6
2 27/02/2017 09/06/2017 £500 3
3 03/07/2017 29/09/2017 £600 3
4 02/10/2017 18/01/2019 £1,300 12
Mr M says that the loans were unaffordable, and he was taking on new debt to repay 
existing debt. He says the amounts he was borrowing increased with each new loan causing 
him to enter a cycle of debt.
Mr Lender issued its final response in December 2020. It said that before the loans were 
provided it carried out affordability and credit checks and having reviewed these it didnt 
believe it had acted irresponsibly. It said its checks suggested the loans were affordable. As 
a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr M a £25 voucher.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say that the first three loans shouldnt have been provided but thought that further checks 
should have happened before the fourth loan. Had these happened he thought Mr Lender 
would have realised this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr M.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that the credit check carried out 
before loan 4 was provided showed that Mr M had no other short term loans outstanding. It 
said as it had already gathered this information regarding other lenders it wasnt 
proportionate to ask for further verification such as bank statements. It said that having 
reviewed Mr Ms borrowing history this didnt raise concerns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loans were provided Mr Lender gathered information about Mr Ms income and 
expenses. I have looked through the information gathered and can see his monthly income 
was recorded as £2,422 for the first loan and £2,400 for the following three loans. His 
monthly expenses were recorded as £1,175 for the first loan and £1,250 for the following 
three loans. 
The first two loans were for £500 and the third was for £600. Having looked at the repayment 
amounts on these loans compared to Mr Ms income, noting Mr Ms repayment history and 
that these were the first three loans in the lending chain, I find that the information gathered 
before these loans were provided was sufficient. As this didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the loans I do not find I have enough evidence to say these loans shouldnt 
have been provided.
Loan 4 was for a much larger amount, £1,300. The loan was repayable over 12 instalments 
with the highest monthly repayment amount being around £259. Although the monthly repayments appeared affordable based on Mr Ms declared income and expenses, I think 
that given the size and duration of this loan and noting that Mr M was taking out new loans 
shortly after repaying his previous loans, further checks should have been carried out to 
ensure this loan was sustainably affordable.
Mr Lender said that it carried out a credit check before loan 4 was provided and the 
information received showed that Mr M had no outstanding short term loans and no defaults 
on his account and as the information gathered didnt raise concerns it wasnt proportionate 
to ask for further verification. I have considered this, but I think it would be reasonable at this 
stage to have carried out a full review of Mr Ms financial situation to ensure the lending was 
sustainably affordable. Such a review could have included asking for bank statements.
I have looked through the bank statements Mr M has provided from the months leading up to 
the loan. These show that he was taking out short term loans on a regular basis with several 
different lenders. He was making repayments on the short term loans but then taking out 
new loans shortly after. Loan 4 was provided on 2 October 2017, and while I note the 
comments made by Mr Lender, Mr Ms statements show that he took out loans with four 
other lenders in the month before this loan. In October 2017, he made repayments to three 
other lenders suggesting that he had at least three outstanding short term loans at this time.
Therefore, while I note the comments Mr Lender has made, I find on balance that before 
loan 4 was provided a full review of Mr Ms financial circumstances should have taken place 
and had this happened it would have shown that Mr M was struggling to manage his money. 
I think this would have raised significant concerns that loan 4 wasnt sustainably affordable 
for him. Therefore, I uphold this complaint regarding loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should:Refund all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on loan 4 along with 8% simple 
interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Me Lender 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if Mr M asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4. PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman