DRN-3972388
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with how BUPA Insurance Limited handled claims on her dental insurance. 
Mrs F is being represented in this matter, but for ease of reference Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her. 
What happened
Mrs F held dental insurance with BUPA on a group policy through her employer. The policy 
renews on 1 April of each year. 
In 2021 and 2022 Mrs F received dental treatment and she later submitted a claim on her 
policy. 
BUPA paid a total of £2,019 toward her treatments. But Mrs F thinks this contribution is 
incorrect because shes reached a higher figure using her own calculations. She also thinks 
BUPA should compensate her for the amount of time she has spent pursuing these claims.
BUPA said they had settled the claims fairly and in line with the 2021 membership guide. 
Mrs F believes the benefits of the policy have changed mid-way through the yearly
term. 
Mrs F referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked at what happened and 
thought BUPA had settled the claim fairly and she didnt see any error in their approach to 
the reimbursement. She didnt agree the policy benefits had changed during the policy year 
and she didnt think BUPA had caused any unnecessary delays to the claim settlement. 
Mrs F disagreed. In summary she said: 
BUPA changed the renumeration of the insurance policy mid-way through the yearly 
term. 
Shed used an older copy of the membership guide. But BUPA have still paid a lower 
amount that she thinks is owed based on the September 2021 membership guide. 
She remained unhappy that BUPA hadnt responded to her letter of 29 June 2022
If BUPA had paid settlement amounts sooner than they did, she wouldnt have had to 
spend so much time on this issue and felt it necessary to complain. She should be 
reimbursed 20 hours at a rate of £30 per hour for the time she has wasted. 
So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded BUPA acted unfairly in their calculations. Ill explain why. 
For clarity, this decision is solely on BUPAs handling of Mrs Fs claim in October 2021 and 
April 2022. Mrs Fs complaint about BUPAs handling of a claim she made on 5 June 2021 
has been considered separately by our service.
Ive considered the relevant membership guide from September 2021, alongside the 
invoices Mrs F provided. Having done so, Im satisfied BUPA applied their terms and 
conditions fairly in this case when calculating their settlement figures. 
I note Mrs F had used a different membership guide during her initial calculations, but our 
investigator provided the relevant copy from 2021.This membership guide clearly sets out 
the benefit limits applicable during each policy year which runs from 1 April to 30 March.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs Fs treatment costs were higher than the amount BUPA paid 
towards the two claims in question, the policy terms are clear that there is a maximum 
amount she can claim for each treatment per policy year. And Im mindful that BUPA also 
sent Mrs F claim advice letters that clearly set out how her claim payments had been 
calculated and explained why they hadnt covered the full cost of treatments. So Im satisfied 
Mrs F was aware of the benefit limits on her policy. And from what Ive seen, BUPA fairly 
settled Mrs Fs claims in line with the limits set out in the 2021 membership guide. 
Mrs F remains unhappy that BUPA didnt respond to her letter of 29 June 2022. We re-sent 
a copy of this letter to them and they apologised for the oversight in not responding to Mrs F, 
but maintained their position that the claim was settled correctly. Although I appreciate Mrs 
Fs frustrations, I dont think BUPAs actions impacted her. And Im not persuaded the lack of 
response to this letter makes a difference here. I remain satisfied BUPA settled Mrs Fs 
claims fairly. 
Its clear Mrs F is frustrated with the way in which her claims have been handled and the 
time and effort she has spent having to challenge BUPA. But Im not persuaded BUPA 
caused any unnecessary delays to the claim. They had to request additional information and 
contact the dental practice in order to complete their assessment of invoices and treatments, 
but I dont think that is unreasonable. So I dont think BUPA needs to award any 
compensation.
In summary, I dont think BUPA acted unreasonably when they assessed Mrs Fs claims and 
calculated her settlement figures. I understand she is still unhappy with BUPAs calculations, 
but as above, Im satisfied BUPA settled her claims in line with the limits set out in the 
membership guide, so I dont think she has been treated unfairly.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs F, but there isnt anything further I could reasonably 
ask BUPA to do here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman