DRN-2972900
The complaint
Mr S says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided the following loan to Mr S:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payable
30/07/2020 £1,000 18 months £228.56 £4,114.08
Mr S told us that Loans 2 Go failed to carry out full checks before lending and said if that had 
been done the loan wouldnt have been provided to him. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that he can't afford this loan and 
everything he has provided to us shows that he was constantly in debt and in overdraft at the 
bank so his application should have been refused.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Mr S complaint.
When Mr S applied for this loan, Loans 2 Go asked him for information about his finances 
and carried out a credit check. 
Loans 2 Go checked what hed said about his salary by looking at a payslip and downgraded 
the amount Mr S said he earned and recorded his minimum monthly income was £1,431.61. 
It boosted the figure Mr S declared for his spending and allowed for him having to pay 
monthly outgoings of £1,019.85. And it also added a 10% buffer to take account of any 
fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Taking all this into account, these figures 
didnt suggest that Mr S would have any difficulty meeting the loan repayments for this loan. 
It looked like Mr S shouldve had ample disposable income to cover the £228.56 instalment 
he had signed up to pay each month.  
The credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out showed that Mr S wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered and no recent defaults on his record. 
Mr S says Loans 2 Go shouldve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
him and hes sent us information, including an up to date credit report, to support what he 
says. But I think its fair to say that all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered tended to 
suggest that Mr S seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious 
debt problem. Whilst the credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained showed that Mr S was one 
payment in arrears on one of his accounts, the repayments on all of his other active 
accounts were up to date.
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and 
sometimes even an impaired credit history. 
And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt 
shown on Mr Ss credit checks was excessive having regard to his income or that anything 
else revealed in the credit checks Loans 2 Go carried out was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out more before lending or refuse the 
loan application. 
Id expect Loans 2 Go to decide Mr Ss lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This means that information Mr S might see on his own 
credit check, including other short term loans, may not have been identified by a credit check 
done by Loans 2 Go when he applied for this loan. 
To sum up, I dont think it was unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to lend here  especially as 
there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr S wouldnt be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
Loans 2 Go to probe any more deeply into Mr Ss finances or ask Mr S to prove what he was 
declaring (by requiring him to send in his bank statements for instance) or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. 
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that 
Mr S might now feel the loan was unaffordable for him. But the loan documents set out the 
terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr S applied for this loan and he had to actively 
engage in the loan application process. The total amount he was signing up to repay over 
the contractual loan term, including interest, was set out and the agreement showed the 
number and amount of the payments he would need to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr S was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. I dont think Loans 2 Go had any reason to 
think that Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead only when it 
had provided information explaining the main loan costs and Mr S said he wanted to 
proceed. 
Im sorry that Mr S has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved 
difficult for him. I accept that Mr Ss actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information Loans 2 Go obtained. But in 
order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this 
case, I dont think that Loans 2 Go did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr S. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that Loans 2 Go acted towards Mr S in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
Loans 2 Go previously made an offer to reduce the amount of interest on the loan and 
I expect Loans 2 Go to continue to work with Mr S and to treat him positively and 
sympathetically if he is continuing to experience financial difficulty.
I would encourage Mr S to provide full details of his financial situation to Loans 2 Go if he still 
needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Mr S would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if 
he gives us a call. I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S and Im sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman