DRN-2166219
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a personal loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the loan in 1995. The loan was for 
£1,700. Mr D borrowed an extra £147.43 to pay for the PPI which was added to the loan 
upfront.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2019 in which I also concluded that I was not 
thinking of upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions 
they may wish to make before I reached a final decision. Both parties confirmed that they 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he was told that the PPI was part of the loan and that he had to have it. 
Nationwide no longer has the actual documentation from the sale, but it has provided sample 
copies of the credit agreement it says was in use at the time. I can see that the PPI is 
described as optional credit insurance.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional. I havent seen anything to lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr Ds recollection of events has faded. On balance, I consider that Mr D 
probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr D to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr D with enough information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr D would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his loan 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because 
I dont think hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it.
Nationwide has provided sample agreements for single premium PPI sales. I can see that 
there is a table of costs that contains a separate column for PPI. That column sets out the 
amount of the single premium, the interest, the total amount payable over the term of the 
loan and the monthly cost. Based on the available evidence, I am satisfied that Mr D would 
have been aware of what the policy was going to cost him.
Mr Ds employer would have given him sick pay of six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr D would have received full pay for. Mr D has said that he had 
life cover, but that only paid out on death, rather than being unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mr and Mrs D say they had some savings. But having the policy 
would have allowed them to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. Therefore, it seems to me that Mr D has a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr D had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
As neither party had any further comments following my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman