DRN-4436757
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Credit Card (Tesco)
wont reimburse money she paid for a cruise holiday that she cancelled.
Background
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint, and how I thought Tesco should resolve it. Ive attached a copy of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further comments they wished to make in response to my provisional conclusions.
What happened
Mrs E had booked a holiday for herself and her daughter involving flights and a cruise with 
the package organiser and supplier N. Mrs E paid an initial deposit of £100, with the 
balance of £2,680.44 paid around three weeks later. She used her Tesco credit card to 
make payment.
The holiday was scheduled to take place in late July 2021. It might be recalled that due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic, a number of companies in Ns field had for some time been forced 
to suspend their cruise operations. By July N had resumed operations. But Mrs E was 
understandably concerned about going ahead with the holiday. She contacted N with her 
concerns, prompted by her understanding of Foreign, Commonwealth and Development 
Office (FCDO) advice on cruise ship travel, by exclusions applicable to her travel 
insurance, and by warnings issued by her daughters employer indicating the potential for 
disciplinary action. She sought to cancel her trip and receive a full refund.
N rejected Mrs Es request. It disputed that the FCDO advice could be considered a warning 
against travel. Mrs E responded citing conversations shed had with the Association of 
British Travel Agents (ABTA) that supported her understanding. But N maintained its 
position. Mrs E was dissatisfied with the situation and she subsequently approached Tesco 
to see if she could get her money back.
Tesco said it considered whether to raise a chargeback against N, but decided against it as 
the claim was outside the relevant timeframe in the card scheme rules. Tesco says it also 
considered whether it was liable to Mrs E under connected lender liability provisions set out 
in section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). In broad terms this provides for 
Mrs E to bring a like claim either in misrepresentation or in breach of contract as she would 
be able to bring against N. Tesco didnt think it had a liability under section 75. It said the 
package went ahead and Mrs E could have made use of it. The bank concluded there hadnt 
been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, and declined to uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco had dealt with Mrs E unfairly, for broadly similar reasons 
as previously mentioned. She noted that while Mrs E had questioned the time limit on 
chargeback, the bank had been correct to say it was out of time to make a claim by this 
means.
The investigator didnt think Tesco had wrongly handled the section 75 aspect of the claim 
either. She said the FCDO advice at the material time didnt place any restriction on travel to 
the area where Mrs Es cruise was taking place. And while Mrs E had provided a copy of an 
open letter issued to the travel industry by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), 
the investigator didnt think she could take this into account in a complaint about Tesco. She 
didnt propose upholding the complaint.
Mrs E didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Shes asked for this review.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that in considering Mrs Es claim, Tesco has had proper 
regard for the fact that Mrs E booked a package holiday, as confirmed on the travel 
documents N issued to her when she made her booking. There is no mention in the banks 
submissions of the rights afforded to her by the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (Package Travel Regulations), or of the interaction 
between those rights and the other information Mrs E supplied to the bank, such as the 
FCDO advice and CMA guidance.
This ought to have been a relevant factor in the banks consideration of its potential liability 
under section 75. Even if the chargeback was made outside the relevant time limit, the bank 
says it considered whether Mrs E had a valid section 75 claim.
I say this primarily because Mrs E clearly brought all of this information to Tescos attention 
when she submitted her claim. But even if she had not, Tesco ought to be aware of the 
potential for a breach of contract liability arising out of a failure to abide by the rights 
incorporated into the contract by the Package Travel Regulations.
Part 3, Regulation 12 of the Package Travel Regulations has the effect that Mrs E was 
entitled to terminate the contract and receive a full refund of any payments made for the 
package before it started in the event of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances 
occurring at the place of destination or its immediate vicinity and which significantly affect (a) 
the performance of the package, or (b) the carriage of passengers to the destination.
Mrs E has provided evidence in her email exchanges with N that she sought to exercise that 
right, and that she didnt receive a full refund (which should be made within 14 days of 
cancellation1). That in itself is grounds for a breach of contract claim, and one that would be 
difficult to defend, given that no refund has been made. Whether the cruise itself went ahead 
is entirely irrelevant; Mrs Es claim is not founded on a failure to perform that part of the 
contract, but on being denied her cancellation rights. So the key question is whether the 
circumstances at play in this case were sufficient to enable Mrs E to exercise that right.
Those circumstances are the concerns Mrs E had about taking a cruise trip in light of the 
FCDO advice and other guidance. I appreciate that the FCDO guidance relating to 
international travel did not advise against travelling to the area. But that isnt the FCDO 
guidance that was relevant to the trip Mrs E had planned to take. She had booked a cruise. 
And while the UK domestic cruise industry had restarted earlier in 2021, at the material time 
the FCDO advice was against cruise ship travel.
1 Regulation 14(3)(b)(i) of The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018According to the FCDO, its advice against cruises applies to international travel on a ship 
that is exclusively for pleasure or recreation, providing overnight accommodation and other 
leisure facilities such as entertainment venues or swimming pools. That advice was not 
lifted by the FCDO until the end of July 2021, by which time Mrs Es booked cruise had 
already begun.
Given the nature of Mrs Es cruise would appear entirely to meet this definition, I can see 
how it would be relevant to a Regulation 12 termination. The CMA open letter of 13 May 
2021 is also helpful in this respect. That says:
21. In general, for package holiday contracts, the CMA takes the view that the 
existence of FCDO advice against travel, or against all but essential travel, to a 
particular country or region amounts to compelling evidence of extraordinary and 
unavoidable circumstances occurring at the holiday destination, or its immediate 
vicinity, which significantly affect the performance of the package or the carriage of 
consumers to the destination. Where the FCDO advises against all travel to an 
international destination, that is based on its assessment that UK travellers would 
face an unacceptable level of risk (typically to health or safety) by travelling to that 
destination. Similarly, where the FCDO advises against all but essential travel to a 
destination, that reflects its assessment that UK travellers would face a level of risk 
that it deems unacceptable for the sake of non-essential travel. The CMA considers 
this would include travel for the purpose of a holiday. The CMAs view is reinforced 
by the fact that most travel insurance policies available to UK consumers planning to 
holiday abroad exclude cover if the policy holder travels to a destination against 
FCDO advice, as the destination is deemed to be high risk.
22. Accordingly, the CMA considers that where consumers terminate their package 
because around their departure date there is FCDO advice against travel to their 
holiday destination or its immediate vicinity based on health risks and general 
consequences resulting from the presence of COVID-19 there, they are likely to be 
entitled to a full refund under regulation 12(7)-(8) of the [Package Travel 
Regulations]. In particular, in the CMAs view, the mere fact that the flight is still 
operating, and the accommodation is open is not, in and of itself, a sufficient basis to 
deny a consumer a full refund. This is because the CMA considers that organisers 
need to take into account the consumers reasonable expectations of the package 
taken as a whole when determining whether a right to a full refund has arisen, 
including expectations as to safety, enjoyment and freedom from anxiety.
23. We would therefore expect any package travel operator seeking to refuse 
consumers a full refund, notwithstanding FCDO advice against travel, to explain fully 
the basis upon which they disagree that the FCDO advice reflects circumstances 
significantly affecting the consumers package or travel to the destination, and to 
provide detailed information about the evidence on which they have relied in reaching 
that assessment. The organiser would also need to be ready to defend their stance in 
a court, in the event of consumers bringing court proceedings to obtain a full refund.
Having considered Tescos response to Mrs Es claim in relation to Ns failure to provide a 
full refund, I think its reasonable to say that it hasnt met this standard.
Taking all of this into account, I see no persuasive reason why Mrs E should not have been 
entitled to rely on the Package Travel Regulations, relevant FCDO advice and CMA 
guidance to terminate the package and receive a full refund. As such, I consider that Tesco 
could  and should  have done more to address its potential liability to Mrs E under section 
75. The position the bank did adopt doesnt appear to be supported by the relevant 
legislation, despite the weight of evidence Mrs E submitted in relation to her claim.It follows that Im minded to conclude there were deficiencies in the way Tesco approached 
Mrs Es claim that led to her being treated unfairly and which suggest it would be appropriate 
for the bank to address her financial loss, and to pay her compensation for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused by its handling of the claim.
Putting things right
In light of this I intend to direct Tesco to take the following steps:
1. pay Mrs E £2,780.44, representing a full refund of the money she paid for the 
package holiday
2. if Tesco has charged interest on this amount to Mrs Es credit card account, it 
should rework her account removing all associated interest and charges
3. pay Mrs E interest on the amount in 1., calculated at 8% simple annually from 26 
July 2021 (being 14 days after the date on which Mrs E sought to cancel) until the 
date it pays this settlement. If Tesco deducts tax from the interest element of my 
award, it should confirm to Mrs E that it has done so and provide her with the 
relevant tax deduction certificate
4. pay Mrs E £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused due to the way it handled her claim
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs E accepted my intended conclusions and had no further comments to make. Tesco 
also responded, making the following points:
The FCDO advice was in place at the time Mrs E made her booking, and there was 
at that point no guarantee that international travel restrictions would be lifted. This 
indicates that the events were avoidable and not extraordinary to Mrs E as set out in 
Regulation 12 of the Package Travel Regulations
Mrs E contacted N to cancel because she wasnt covered by her travel insurance 
policy as required under her agreement with N, and because of her daughters 
employment concerns, rather than because of any issues with the holiday destination 
or the safety of the cruise itself.
Mrs Es daughter ought to have been aware of her employers travel advice at the 
time of the booking
Both it and N considered it relevant that the travel restrictions had been lifted in the 
area in which the cruise was taking place, and had interpreted the Package Travel 
Regulations correctly in this respect. As such, there was no breach of contract 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of Tescos response to my provisional decision centres on a basic premise that it 
shouldnt be liable to Mrs E because of the circumstances at play when she entered into the 
contract. While I understand the points Tesco has made in this respect, Ive not seen 
anything that might indicate that Mrs Es rights under the Package Travel Regulations are 
suspended or disapplied in such circumstances. In my view it was legitimate for Mrs E to 
make a booking anticipating that by the time she was due to travel the restrictions would be lifted, as had happened with the domestic cruise industry. If not, she had the fall back 
protection of the Package Travel Regulations.
That brings me to the question of the application of Regulation 12. In my provisional decision 
I quoted in some detail from the relevant FDCO advice and CMA open letter. I appreciate 
what Tesco has said about the way it and N have interpreted Regulation 12. However, I 
have concluded that I can reasonably rely on the advice and guidance issued by the relevant 
government departments that deals directly with this question of interpretation. In doing so, 
Im satisfied that the FCDO advice is sufficient to support the application of Regulation 12 to 
the cruise Mrs E had booked, notwithstanding what Tesco has said about the lifting of 
restrictions in the region the cruise was taking place.
Im not persuaded the fact there were likely other reasons at play that informed Mrs Es 
decision to cancel means that she should be unable to avail herself of her right under 
Regulation 12. Theres nothing in the Package Travel Regulations that caveats the right 
under Regulation 12 to applying only if the traveller has no other reasons for cancelling. My 
reading it that it is sufficient that the provisions of Regulation 12 are engaged, and for the 
reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that they are.
With this in mind, I adopt my provisional conclusions in full as part of this final decision. 
Having considered all thats been said and provided, I remain of the opinion that the 
resolution I proposed in my provisional decision is a fair and reasonable way to settle 
Mrs Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, I direct Tesco Personal 
Finance trading as Tesco Credit Card to take the following steps within 28 days of receiving 
Mrs Es acceptance of it:
1. pay Mrs E £2,780.44, representing a full refund of the money she paid for the 
package holiday
2. if Tesco has charged interest on this amount to Mrs Es credit card account, it should 
rework her account removing all associated interest and charges
3. pay Mrs E interest on the amount in 1., calculated at 8% simple annually from 26 July 
2021 (being 14 days after the date on which Mrs E sought to cancel) until the date it 
pays this settlement. If Tesco deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it 
should confirm to Mrs E that it has done so and provide her with the relevant tax 
deduction certificate
4. pay Mrs E £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes been caused 
due to the way it handled her claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman