DRN-4253045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that the appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd 
failed to ensure, when it recommended a new mortgage product to them In October 2021, 
that the offer from the lender would be available when their existing mortgage product 
expired. Mr and Mrs B say that they are paying at a higher interest rate than they should be 
paying and want Quilter to make up the difference.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B used Quilter as their mortgage broker on several previous occasions to source 
their mortgage and mortgage product. The loan with their existing mortgage provider, I shall 
call Lender A, had, I understand, on October 2021, 26 years and 7 months remaining. Their 
existing mortgage product was ending on 31 March 2022 and so, in October 2021, they  
asked Quilter to source a replacement. 
Quilter recommended a five-year mortgage product with a different lender, I shall call Lender 
B, and with a slightly shorter term of 25 years. The recommendation noted that there was 
very little between the top three deals that Quilter had sourced, but there was a marginal 
preference for one lender because of its free legals and lower upfront fee. Quilter obtained a 
Mortgage Illustration from Lender B on behalf of Mr and Mrs B dated 19 October 2021. The 
Illustration sets out that the lender may be willing to offer on a loan of £475,000.00, the terms 
of that loan and fees and that a fixed rate of 0.99% would be available from completion until 
2 January 2027. The mortgage term itself is for 25 years. The initial payments are £1,790.91. 
No date is given for the date of completion. 
Mr and Mrs B applied, and Lender B issued a mortgage offer on 19 November 2021. But the 
offer said that the terms described in the Mortgage Illustration were only valid until 4 March 
2022 and after that date may change in line with market conditions. So, if Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to avail of it they would have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) which wasnt 
their expectation. So, in November, Quilter suggested a new mortgage product with their 
existing lender, Lender A. This was a five-year product at an interest rate of 1.25% fixed until 
31 December 2026.The initial payments were £1,775.16. 
Mr and Mrs B complain that over the five years of the fixed rate product, they are going to 
pay £3,380,00 more because of Quilters errors. Quilter says that in recommending the 
mortgage product to Mr and Mrs B it was acting in good faith based on Lender Bs Mortgage 
Illustration which failed to identify that the product offer was only valid until 4 March 2022 
rather than the expected six months. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that at 
the time of the recommendation the lender didnt disclose the expiration date of the 
mortgage product and so Quilter couldnt have been aware of it. Mr and Mrs B disagreed 
and asked for a review.
My provisional decision
As my view of this complaint differed from that of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
A brokers role is to consider Mr and Mrs Bs preferences and needs and recommend a 
mortgage that meets those requirements. Central to this complaint is that Mr and Mrs B 
required a mortgage that would be available to them when their existing mortgage product 
came to an end. This was also at a time when interest rates were expected to rise. Mr B 
works in financial services and Ive no doubt that this expectation was why they were trying 
to get a fixed rate offer well in advance of their existing mortgage product coming to an end. 
So, Quilters role was to source a mortgage product that would be valid when Mr and Mrs B 
required it on 31 March 2022. It Quilter couldnt source a suitable mortgage, it should have 
told Mr and Mrs B at the time. If it was unsure whether the mortgage would be valid, it should 
have told Mr and Mrs B that it was unsure and checked. It appears to have assumed without 
checking that the mortgage product would be valid. Mr and Mrs B consider that this fell 
below the standard of service they would expect from their broker as do I.
     
I put this to Quilter which replied that as the required completion date wasnt included in the 
new lenders Mortgage Illustration that it was fair and reasonable for the mortgage adviser to 
assume that it would be available for the usual six-month timescale . Quilter says that this 
was an issue with Lender Bs Mortgage Illustrations at the time and Lender B has since 
amended their illustrations to now disclose any required completion date at the outset. 
Quilter says that this validates the fact that the completion date should have been stated in 
the illustration for the product the adviser originally recommended to Mr and Mrs B. Quilter 
says that in the absence of a completion date in the Illustration it assumed that the product 
would be on offer for the usual six months. Is that a reasonable assumption? Alternatively, 
would the fact that there was no completion date on the Mortgage Illustration at a time of 
volatile interest rates alert the adviser that there might be an issue with the length of time the 
mortgage offer would be open for and make reasonable enquiries to ascertain how long that 
might be? The problem for Quilter is that it undertook to recommend a mortgage product that 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs B and the product that it recommended in October wasnt 
suitable and for that reason I will be upholding this complaint. 
I then dealt with the calculation of Mr and Mrs Bs loss:
I have to consider what, if any, financial loss flows from that.  Although Lender Bs mortgage 
product didnt prove suitable, the Quilter adviser recommended other lenders with similar 
products in its recommendation of October 2021 noting that there was very little between the 
top three deals. My view is that if Quilter had, as it should have done, ascertained from 
Lender B that its product wouldnt suit Mr and Mrs B that it would then have turned to the 
next best alternative and recommended that. So, Mr and Mrs B would have lost out on the 
benefit of the lower interest rate with the next best alternative mortgage provider. 
In order to compensate Mr and Mrs B for their financial loss Quilter should calculate the 
amount of interest that Mr and Mrs B would have paid during the term of their fixed rate 
mortgage product with the next best alternative mortgage provider, and deduct that from the 
interest that they will pay during the same term duration to Lender A. That will be the figure 
for their interest rate loss. I recognise that this calculation may not be entirely like for like. 
Some of the alternatives suggested in October 2021 had their five-year periods beginning in 
January 2022 so Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have enjoyed a full five years on that product 
whereas they do with the re-mortgage. There is also the issue that the different products had different fees and in order to get the 
next best alternative Mr and Mrs B would have paid fees to get it. Quilter should also work 
out the fees that applied to the next best alternative and the fees that apply to the 
remortgage with Lender A. If Mr and Mrs Bs fees would have been greater with the next 
best alternative, Quilter may deduct the balance from the compensation. If Mr and Mrs Bs 
fees would have greater with Lender A. Quilter should add the balance of the fees to the 
compensation. When I have these figures I will consider what interest should be paid if any.        
In addition, Mr and Mrs B should be compensated for their distress and inconvenience. I 
recognise that they will have been disappointed with Quilters failure to provide a suitable 
mortgage product, but they had clearly confidence in them to use them again, so I believe a 
fair level of compensation for this is £350. 
So, at this stage my intention is to uphold this complaint and require Quilter to pay the 
compensation to Mr and Mrs B. I will consider any further evidence or submissions from Mr 
and Mrs B or from Quilter within the timescale set out above. As I have provisionally upheld 
this complaint I would ask Quilter now to provide me with their calculation of Mr and Mrs Bs 
loss.
Quilter disagreed with the substance of my decision and questioned the calculation of the 
loss. Mr and Mrs B also disagreed, and I have considered the basis of these objections 
below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my Provisional Decision. The responses were partly to the 
substance of my decision but also to my suggested calculation of the financial loss and Mr 
and Mrs B have asked me to reconsider the amount I awarded for their distress and 
inconvenience.
Quilter say that there was no reason for the adviser to be unsure if the recommended 
product would be valid when the clients existing product ended as the product details did not 
state there was a deadline for completion as it should have done and now does. Further that 
Ive assumed that at times of market volatility that if there is no completion date on the 
Mortgage Illustration that an adviser would be expected to assume that there might be an 
issue with the length of time the mortgage offer would be open for and make reasonable 
enquiries to ascertain how long that might be. In my view the central issue here is that the 
broker accepted that it would recommend a product that met Mr and Mrs Bs preferences 
and needs and the product it recommended didnt do so and thats why Im upholding this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs B only became aware that the product didnt meet their needs later on 
by which time interest rates had increased. Mr and Mrs B suffered a financial loss because 
they lost the opportunity to fix their future interest rate in October 2021 rather than in 
December 2021.
As I understand it the broker feels that it was let down by the lenders processes. But thats a 
matter between the broker and the lender. This is a complaint between the customer and the 
broker and Im upholding a complaint that the broker didnt do what it was asked to do and 
which it undertook to do. I believe that my Provisional Decision sets out clearly why Im 
upholding the substance of the complaint and the further submission from Quilter has not 
altered my view of that.The second issue relates to the calculation of Mr and Mrs Bs financial loss in a fair and 
reasonable manner. As the chosen mortgage provider was unsuitable I believe that Quilter 
should have recommended the next best alternative. Im mindful that the adviser said that 
there was very little between the top three deals he had sourced. Both parties disagree what 
the next best alternative would be. Mr and Mrs B say it would be the mortgage product that 
appears fifth on the mortgage options sheet. But theres a problem with that as the 
repayments that appear on the quote arent the ones that would have applied to Mr and Mrs 
B. 
The figures on the quote are based on a mortgage term of 25 years but that lender wouldnt 
lend beyond Mr Bs 70th birthday and so the term would have to be shortened and the 
repayments increased if Mr and Mrs B wanted to avail of it. On my reading of the file, this 
lender was discounted because of this and although Mr and Mrs B say now that this is the 
alternative they would have liked and would have been prepared to pay the higher 
repayments, at the time there is no evidence that they wanted a shorter term and higher 
payments or looked for a quote as to what those repayments were. One of the reasons given 
for choosing Lender B was low payments and I believe that the next best alternative should 
be the one that clearly matches it with as low a payment as Lender B, a rate of less than 1% 
and free legal services.
So, I believe its reasonable to assume that the building society that appears second on the 
list dated 14 October 2021 would have been the next best alternative lender recommended 
by the adviser. I shall call the Society Lender C. That society has two products on the list, 
and it seems to me that the product that appears seventh on the list with the free legals 
matches most closely the mortgage product that Mr and Mrs B wanted at the time. 
The calculation for financial loss would be relatively straightforward if the quote for the 
mortgage with Lender A and the mortgage with Lender C were like for like but there are 
certain differences, and I must address those in the light of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. The quote for Lender C is based on a mortgage of 25 years but the actual 
mortgage with Lender A is for a longer period. I believe its fair in a calculation of loss that we 
look at Mr and Mrs Bs actual loss between what they are paying now with Lender A and 
what they would have been paying if the mortgage with Lender C was based on the same 
mortgage term. That would give a like for like comparison.
Secondly, there is a difference between the mortgage balance that Quilter quoted for and the 
mortgage balance that was used to determine Mr and Mrs B repayments with Lender A. As I 
am asking Quilter to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the errors based on the quoted figure I 
believe that in compensating for the loss, Quilter should use the figure used in the quote of 
£475,000 as its starting point.
Mr and Mrs B, as they advise me, are now on a mortgage product lasting for 57 months from 
1 April 2022. That is in fact the same term they chose with Lender B. The length of term with 
Lender C would run for longer  for 60 months from completion. I have to recognise that Mr 
and Mrs Bs original choice was for a length of term of 57 months, rather than the 60-month 
term with Lender C. As I am compensating them for their loss its really a loss that is 
sustained over 57 months. After that period Mr and Mrs B will presumably look to take out 
another discounted rate product but of course we cant know what that would be. 
My view is that its fair to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the 57-month period that they wanted 
this discounted rate to cover and not the further period which they had already opted not to 
cover. In my view, its not fair to compensate them for any further loss than the period that 
they originally wanted cover for, even if we could say with any certainty that there would be a 
loss and what that loss would be, if any. After the 57 month period ends with Lender A, Mr 
and Mrs B will presumably take out a further discounted rate but its impossible to say what that would be and its mere speculation at this stage whether that rate would be higher or 
lower than the rate with Lender C. I also recognise that in doing the calculation and 
compensating Mr and Mrs B now, there is an advantage to them that they will be getting 
their future loss now.
Mr and Mrs B also asked me to look again at my award of £350 for their distress and 
inconvenience.  They indicate that they were dissatisfied with Quilter but continued with the 
broker for essentially convenience. Mr and Mrs B say that they experienced a horrible 10 
days between getting the letter from Lender B and being able to get a deal with Lender A. 
They say they spent a lot of time on this complaint because of Quilters intransigence and 
that too low an award wont act as a disincentive to Quilter in the future. On the latter point, 
my role isnt to penalise Quilter but to award Mr and Mrs B a fair sum for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by Quilters failures. 
I appreciate that this complaint has taken time for Mr and Mrs B to process but Quilter has 
disagreed with Mr and Mrs B and is of course entitled to oppose this complaint although I 
disagree with the substance of its objection. It shouldnt be penalised for taking an active 
part in the complaints process. I recognise that it must have been upsetting for Mr and Mrs B 
to find out that Quilter had not delivered what it had promised but having considered Mr and 
Mrs Bs further submissions, my view remains that £350 represents fair compensation for 
their distress and inconvenience and I will require Quilter to pay this.
So, I uphold this complaint and require Quilter to compensate Mr and Mrs B. In terms of their 
financial loss, I require Quilter to calculate Mr and Mrs Bs financial loss as follows:
1. Based on a balance of £475,000.00 calculate the amount that Mr and Mrs B will 
pay Lender A over the term of the mortgage product for 57 months from 1 April 
2022 to include the product fee
2. Based on the same balance and assuming the same mortgage term as with 
Lender A, calculate the amount that Mr and Mrs B would have paid Lender C 
over the same mortgage product term of 57 months from 1 April 2022. That figure 
should include the product fee.
3. Deduct 2 from 1 to obtain the financial loss.
Quilter should set out this calculation clearly for Mr and Mrs B and respond to any 
reasonable queries raised by them arising from it. Mr and Mrs B should provide Quilter with 
any information requested should Quilter need any from Mr and Mrs B to conduct its 
calculation.
Putting things right
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs B the amount of their financial loss 
calculated as above and pay them £350 for their distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 Gerard McManus
Ombudsman