DRN-4051070
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc did not prevent fraud from being 
committed on her account and they provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Miss R ordered a new card and Personal Identification Number (PIN) for her NatWest 
account to a local branch for her to collect. But the staff told her that they couldnt locate her 
card. Miss R asked for a balance statement, only to discover her balance was around £6,000 
lower than it should be. She said that NatWest did nothing to stop the fraud on her account. 
Miss R made a complaint to NatWest, but when she rang for updates, she says they told her 
they were waiting on a response from the branch. So Miss R visited the branch to speak to 
the branch manager, but she says that he hid from her. Eventually she was promised a call 
back from the manager for the following day on her lunch break, but he rang back over an 
hour later than agreed. 
NatWest upheld Miss Rs complaint. They said the missing card and PIN were sent to either 
one of two of their branches and a form would need to be submitted if it was to go to a 
different branch if required, but both branches confirmed they hadnt received either the card 
or PIN and thats why Miss R wasnt contacted to collect these items. They said this 
indicates both items were intercepted on route. They said the fraudulent withdrawals were 
not flagged as fraud because they were made using her genuine card and PIN, and they did 
not match the fraud trends they were seeing at the time. NatWest apologised for the service 
she received, and they credited £250 into her account as an apology. They also refunded 
the fraudulent transactions. Miss R brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought the £250 compensation was fair for what happened. He said Miss 
Rs card and PIN were lost in transit whilst being posted to the branch, and these werent 
received by the branch, so he said this was out of NatWests control. He said the 
withdrawals werent flagged as they were made with the genuine card and PIN. Miss R 
asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She felt £1,000-£2,500 compensation 
was more appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Miss R that Ive read everything shes said about the events having an 
impact on her health and day to day life even though I wont go into great detail about this in 
my decision. I can understand what a traumatic situation that she would have been in, from 
not only finding out that fraud had been committed on her account but also waiting to find out 
whether the money would be refunded to her. Unfortunately it can take time for a fraud 
investigation to be carried out. But I have a lot of sympathy for her in the position she found 
herself in. Being a victim of fraud would naturally cause a lot of these health issues, so my 
role here is to consider the actions of NatWest solely here, as this is who her complaint is 
against.
NatWest sent the card and PIN to the branch. But Im satisfied that this didnt reach a 
branch, and thats why she wasnt contacted to collect these items. The evidence suggests 
that these were lost in transit. Unfortunately, her PIN and card were intercepted by someone 
who withdrew money from her account. But I cant hold NatWest responsible for any postal 
issues as this would be out of their control. As the funds were being withdrawn using Miss 
Rs genuine card and PIN and within the daily withdrawal limit for cash machines, then I can 
understand why this didnt flag on NatWests systems for suspected fraud. Especially when 
they say this also didnt match any fraud trends they were seeing at the time.
But I am persuaded that there were service failings by NatWest after the fraud was reported 
by Miss R. At a distressing time they did not communicate with her how I would expect. 
NatWest do not dispute what Miss R said about the branch manager hiding from her. Miss R 
had to chase them for updates, and she was giving conflicting information about what was 
outstanding on the fraud investigation as she was told the investigator was waiting for 
information from the branch, but the branch told her they hadnt received a request for 
information when Miss R was told that information had already been requested. The call 
back from the manager was over an hour later than agreed. These failings would have had 
an impact on Miss R.
NatWest credited £250 to Miss Rs account. I know Miss R feels £1,000-£2,500 is more 
appropriate. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel 
that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to 
their customer over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we 
recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines. But as 
NatWests actions werent directly responsible for the fraud, Im satisfied that £250 is fair for 
the service failings here and the impact these had on her. And NatWest have already 
refunded her the fraudulent transactions. So it follows I dont require NatWest to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman