DRN-3209646
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him unsuitable investment advice in 1999 and 
2006. Ive considered this as far as it relates to investments owned solely by him.
Mr Bs complaint is brought by a professional representative. Ive referred to Mr B below 
when referring to things said or done by him or by his representative on his behalf.
What happened
HSBCs advisers 1999 notes were signed by Mr B at the time. According to these, HSBC 
had two meetings with Mr B a few days apart. A regular premium investment had matured, 
increasing the cash Mr B held jointly to a little over £10,000. Mr Bs household had £4000 
more elsewhere. HSBC advised Mr B to invest just over £7000 into a UK investment fund 
within an ISA.
HSBC doesnt have a fund factsheet to show how the fund was invested. Ive proceeded on 
the basis that it was likely almost all invested in shares, that there was a diversified mix of 
shares not focussed on one specialist area and that the shares were mainly UK shares.
Mr Bs complaint said over £15,000 was invested in the ISA. The HSBC records sent by him 
show it was just over £7000 initially with £1000 more a year later and £7000 more in 2006. 
That last sum was invested into a different fund, an income fund. HSBC has provided a 
factsheet for that fund, showing it invested in fixed interest assets, mostly sub-investment 
grade or high yield in nature, with around 20% in shares. The amount in shares exceeded 
the amount in investment grade bonds.
Mr Bs objective in 1999 was growth. The 1999 notes say: investment into the stock 
markets is needed to get the growth required. In 2006 Mr Bs objectives were recorded as 
growth and income. The recommendations say the income from the income fund would be 
reinvested for growth. It was noted that income could be taken instead in future if things 
changed and it was also noted that Mr B had no particular goal or objective for his savings at 
that time.
In 1999 and 2006 Mr B was assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk (commonly also 
referred to as medium risk), described in the advisers 1999 notes as: Moderate risk to 
capital but potentially better returns over medium to longer term. A 1999 letter to Mr B said 
he: preferred the growth potential of balanced investments over that of secure or more 
cautious investments.
In 2006 the advice about risk was, in essence, that Mr B wanted a balanced risk position 
and the advice would move him towards this and away from his current secure investment 
risk position by reducing the large joint cash holdings. Further, his overall position would end 
as lower risk, not balanced, due to the use of cautious investments in 2006 and only a 
modest proportion of balanced risk investments would be held. For Mr B these balanced 
risk investments were his existing investments in the UK fund. So in 2006 the investments 
recommended, and the overall financial position arrived at as a result, were considered by 
HSBC at the time to be significantly less risky than the level of risk Mr B was willing to take.
In 2006 the assessment of Mr B as a balanced risk investor was arrived at also using a 
questionnaire. The answers recorded there for Mr B do indicate a willingness to accept 
losses on some investments held, as well as a willingness to keep invested in the face of 
losses in the hope of recovery in the longer term. They also express a desire for relatively 
high returns even when accompanied by some volatility.
In 1999 Mr B was in his fifties and recorded as being a member of a company pension 
scheme. Details of this werent taken but he was recorded as being aware of his entitlement 
and happy with it as it was. Mr B was in work and his household income covered outgoings 
with a decent surplus recorded. Aside from what Ive discussed, there wasnt much else in 
the way of investments or assets. But Mr B didnt have much in the way of liabilities either, 
and owned his home mortgage free.
In 2006 Mr Bs jointly held cash funds were over £40,000 and he had a little more in his sole 
name. He has told us his funds at that time came from a redundancy a few years earlier and 
also from pension savings. In addition to the investment made into the income fund at that 
time, Mr B also made a larger joint investment into another product. Im not considering the 
suitability of that joint investment here. Mr Bs household surplus income was recorded as 
more modest than in 1999 and it was recorded at that time that he anticipated retiring in just 
over two years.
According to a HSBC statement provided to us by Mr B, in early 2008 he took some funds 
from the ISA and later in 2008 he took out the rest and closed it. He has said he was aware 
he could lose money, so a loss at surrender wouldnt have made him think anything was 
wrong with the ISA. In fact his calculations, and the HSBC records he has sent us, say he 
got back slightly more than hed put into the ISA.
Mr B has said the UK fund was medium risk and too high-risk for a first-time investor. He has 
also expressed concern about the 2006 advice, and about being advised to take risk at that 
time when he was so close to state retirement age. Hes also told us his work at that time 
was insecure, having recently experienced redundancy. His comments about 2006 were 
mostly about a larger investment Im not considering here. But I mention his comments 
because the ISA contribution made at that time, although smaller, also involved taking more 
risk with the returns he might get and also with his invested capital.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld and thought the 1999 and 
2006 advice was suitable. What our investigator said included that it wasnt wrong for Mr B 
to be advised to invest in a medium risk fund as a first-time investor in 1999. Also our 
investigator said the UK fund will have fallen in value at times after 1999 and this wouldve 
been shown on statements Mr B was sent, but the falls dont appear to have concerned him 
in 2006 when he asked for advice again or in the years before. 
Our investigator noted that in 2006 Mr Bs risk attitude was the same as in 1999 but HSBCs 
recommendations, including the income fund, were less risky. Also, referring to Mr B having 
mentioned being due to retire five years from then, our investigator noted Mr B would have 
significant funds maturing well within five years and accessible before retirement.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. In particular, he said the fund recommended 
in 1999 was too high risk and he was happy to accept some risk but was cautious in nature. 
He said his objective was to try for greater capital growth than he had previously enjoyed, 
and he wanted the funds to be relatively inaccessible - but just because the funds werent 
needed to maintain his lifestyle in the short term, doesnt mean he ought to have been 
recommended a medium risk investment when he had not invested before.
The complaint couldnt be resolved informally, so it has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Mr B didnt want access to the funds invested in 1999 and could afford 
to keep them invested for a time. That said, what was invested was a significant proportion 
of Mr Bs overall and household savings. Those savings were also not particularly large. 
Mr B appears to have had scope to build up more from surplus income while in work, but this 
was likely limited by the number of years he was likely to continue in work at his age. For the 
same reason, there was also limited time for any investment to grow before retirement.
In these circumstances, growing Mr Bs savings was a sensible objective, but the potential 
disadvantages of taking investment risk needed to be weighed carefully.
Looking at Mr Bs wider circumstances, his mortgage was paid off and, although proper 
details of this were never taken, he was in a company pension scheme and had some sort of 
future expectation from that. So elements of Mr Bs personal situation like these did provide 
some prospect of longer-term security and some ability to afford to risk investment loss. I 
note also that at least part of the invested funds came from an investment  although it was 
a regular premium investment and so in that way not as risky as investing a lump sum.
On balance, in Mr Bs circumstances, I think on the sum he invested in 1999 he could afford 
to risk the sort of loss that might be produced by a fund invested in a diversified mix of 
mainly UK shares. So I think the UK fund was, on balance, something HSBC could suitably 
recommend him  if he were willing to take the degree of risk involved.
I dont know exactly what was said in 1999 about risk or what Mr B understood by it, but the 
advice process was spread over more than one meeting, so in that way it doesnt seem to 
have been rushed. The notes from the time suggest it was explained that the investment 
involved a risk to capital, described as moderate, in exchange for which was the chance of 
a better return given time. So the risk of losing money was discussed. 
It was made clear the money would be invested in the stock market, which I think is likely to 
have provided some reinforcement of the point that a loss could be suffered. It doesnt follow 
from this that Mr B necessarily understood the degree of risk involved, given he lacked 
experience of stock market investment. But Mr B was made aware that the balanced risk 
he was taking was with the aim of getting a better return than was available from secure or 
cautious investments. So I think it likely he was aware there were other options for his cash 
that involved risk but were still lower risk than the UK fund he was being recommended  
and he went ahead with the investment understanding that. 
With all this in mind, on balance I think it likely Mr B was willing to take the kind of investment 
risk the UK fund presented. I think someone in Mr Bs circumstances with the attitude to risk 
he agreed to and with enough understanding of the risks of the fund, could have agreed to 
invest as Mr B did in the UK fund  and I conclude that this is likely what happened here. In 
conclusion, the 1999 recommendation wasnt unsuitable for Mr B on the grounds of risk - 
and I havent identified any other reason for saying it was unsuitable.
Turning to the situation in 2006, I note what has been said about the investment fluctuations 
Mr B wouldve seen after 1999 if he had kept a regular eye on the progress of his ISA. I dont 
know if he did this or not and I havent seen any statements he mightve been sent about it. 
In short, I dont know whether Mr B spotted any falls in value that caused him concern or not. The ISA value recorded in the 2006 meeting notes is more than Mr B had put into it. So his 
investment at that time wasnt one made in spite of suffering losses on the ISA.
Mr B was much closer to retirement in 2006, so the extent to which he had scope to replace 
investment losses through earned income, was much reduced. Also his earned income was 
much reduced compared to 1999, as was the income surplus. So although, by virtue of the 
ISA hed taken in 1999, Mr B in 2006 had more investment experience than in 1999, in my 
view his circumstances meant he was less able to take risk with his savings.
Id add that Mr B says he had taken funds from his pension. The advisers 2006 notes say 
Mr B was employed and dont refer to pension income but earned income. But if Mr B had 
already accessed pension funds, even just for the cash lump sum, it would follow that he 
didnt have these to fall back on in future in the way that hed had in 1999. 
Having said all this, and despite Mr Bs risk attitude for investments being recorded still as 
balanced, Mr Bs reduced capacity to take risk does appear to have been given weight in 
the advice given in 2006  for example, in the lower risk overall picture that HSBCs adviser 
said the advice would produce. 
For the 2006 ISA investment specifically, the income fund used has been referred to during 
the complaint as low risk. The term used by the adviser was cautious rather than low 
risk - and lower for the overall picture. I note the fund was higher yielding and held riskier 
assets, including shares, than some fixed interest funds. But I still think it was reasonable to 
regard it as offering a risk different to and lower than the UK fund Mr B had used in 1999. So 
in my view the recommendation did involve less investment risk than Mr B had been advised 
to take before. In my view, recommending a less risky fund was sensible at the time - for all 
the reasons Ive already given above.
Mr B has pointed out the 2006 advice was given close to his state retirement age. That is so, 
but in my view the time until Mr Bs state retirement age was still enough to make investment 
in the income fund feasible without exaggerating its risks. HSBCs 2006 notes say Mr B 
anticipated retiring sooner. Mr B has told us of having taken a pension lump sum some time 
before the 2006 meeting. He hasnt mentioned early retirement, before state pension age, as 
a possibility or issue at the 2006 meeting or in the years after it  nor has he complained of 
having had in 2006 a need to access the ISA or other funds before his state retirement age.
The advice in 2006 did mention income could be taken from the fund if needed. So it seems 
consideration was given to the possibility of the investment continuing even if Mr B needed 
access to its income. Mr B started to take funds from the ISA two years after the 2006 advice 
and before the age anticipated in the 2006 notes for early retirement. He started with funds 
invested in 1999 but took the rest later. But it was recorded in 2006 that Mr B didnt have a 
particular objective for his savings, so Ive nothing to suggest the ISA was used for spending 
hed planned for in 2006. Also he had emergency funds in place in 2006 if needed. He also 
had further funds due in future, before state retirement age, from the larger 2006 investment.
With this and all Ive said above in mind, on balance Im not persuaded Mr B was left with 
insufficient cash in 2006 or that there was insufficient time for a further investment into the 
ISA to run without unduly exaggerating the risk of loss arising from charges and the market 
fluctuations to which the income fund would be subject. Id add that Mr Bs answers on the 
questionnaire completed in 2006 do tend to help support the idea he was seeking relatively 
high returns and willing to accept the sort of volatility and risk that went with that. Ive noted 
already that the degree of risk recommended was actually moderated from that at the time.
In conclusion, what I have doesnt persuade me the 2006 ISA advice was unsuitable by 
virtue of carrying too much risk  and I havent identified any other basis on which to say that advice was unsuitable either.
In light of my conclusions above, it follows that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im grateful 
to Mr B for his patience and courtesy throughout our consideration of his complaint. I also 
thank both parties for the assistance they have given us during our investigation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman