DRN-3672220
The complaint
Mr A complains in his capacity as a director of limited company D. Hes unhappy Metro 
Bank Plc wont refund D £400 after a cash machine failed to dispense the correct amount.
What happened
On 3 September 2021, Mr A attempted to withdraw £500 from an Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM) outside a different bank. He says the ATM only dispensed £100 but £500 was debited 
from the business bank account. 
Mr A says he went into the bank where the ATM was located, and he was asked to contact 
Metro Bank to log a dispute. Mr A called Metro Bank shortly after and he was told to wait 48 
hours for the funds to be returned to the account.
When the funds werent refunded to D, Mr A contacted Metro Bank again on 10 September 
2021. He was informed that it could take up to 21 days for the dispute to be resolved. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A raised a complaint.
Metro Bank agreed that while they told Mr A to wait for up to 48 hours for the ATM to rectify 
the situation, he wasnt told what to do, if the money wasnt refunded. They acknowledged 
that Mr A wasnt given sufficient detail on how the dispute case worked. They provided him 
with the explanation of the process and asked that he wait for the 21 days to complete. They 
also apologised, passed feedback and credited £25 to the account. 
On 23 September 2021, Metro Bank wrote to Mr A explaining theyd investigated the 
dispute, but the full amount was dispensed from the ATM. Mr A then referred his complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator said Metro Bank hadnt provided our service with the evidence wed asked 
for, including purge bin records, ATM service and fault log record, ATM balancing reports 
and details of the specific notes dispensed. She upheld the complaint and asked Metro Bank 
to refund D and add 8% simple interest to this amount. She also asked them to pay a further 
£75 compensation for the service they gave while handling the claim.
Metro Bank disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They explained the ATM 
journal which was provided confirms that the transaction was authenticated, that there were 
no issues prior to or after Ds transaction and that £500 was dispensed. They said the rules 
dont indicate the evidence the investigator had asked for was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank have provided us with a copy of the ATM journal roll showing Ds transaction, as 
well as some transactions made shortly before and after. This shows that Ds cash 
withdrawal and the other transactions around the time were completed successfully.
Ive also seen the message Metro Bank received from the ATM owner which confirms that 
the ATM had £40 more than it should when it was checked on 15 September 2021, which 
covered the period in question.
I appreciate Metro Bank have followed their chargeback process which doesnt require them 
to request any further information. However, I dont think this limited evidence is enough to 
say that the ATM correctly dispensed the amount Mr A requested.
Metro Bank havent been able to provide evidence to show:
The breakdown of notes dispensed to Mr A.
The disputed amount of £400 hadnt gone into the purge bin.
The ATM balanced on 3 September 2021.
There werent any reported problems with the ATM around the time of the 
transaction.
There were no other claims raised for transactions completed on the same day.
The £40 excess recorded on 15 September 2021 didnt affect Ds transaction.
In the absence of this information, I cant be certain that the ATM correctly dispensed the 
cash to Mr A. I think its reasonable to expect Metro Bank to have carried out more enquiries 
with the ATM owner, particularly since they were aware that the ATM didnt balance around 
the time of Ds transaction.
After weighing up the available evidence, Im not persuaded that I can safely say that the 
£500 Mr A requested was correctly dispensed. I say this because we dont have evidence to 
show the ATM balanced on the day of Ds transaction. And the ATM owner has confirmed on 
15 September 2021, that there was an excess of £40 for the period in question.
This means there was a discrepancy with the machine around the time of Ds transaction. 
Although the excess is for an amount much less than Ds claim, there isnt sufficient 
evidence to show which transaction the excess related to.
I also cant rule out the possibility that there was a problem or some type of error with the 
ATM that affected a number of transactions, including Ds which may have amounted to the 
£40 excess.
Mr As testimony has been consistent throughout  hes been a regular user of the ATM and 
has told us he didnt notice anything suspicious around the time of making the transaction. 
He took the actions Id expect following the withdrawal which adds to his credibility. He acted 
quickly and spoke to the bank where the ATM was located as well as contacted Metro Bank 
within five minutes of making the cash withdrawal.
All things considered and on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr A didnt receive 
the money he requested from the ATM, and it follows Metro Bank should refund D £400.
Metro Bank have already accepted that the level of service they gave was sub-standard. 
They agreed they hadnt provided sufficient detail to Mr A regarding how an ATM dispute 
works, the timescales involved and the actions he needed to take. I think Metro Bank have taken some steps to fairly put things right here by apologising, 
explaining how the process works and passing feedback to their relevant teams. However, I 
dont think £25 paid as an apology goes far enough to reflect the inconvenience caused to D.
Mr A had let Metro Bank know that he required these funds for expenses and asked them for 
an explanation of why D couldnt be refunded immediately. I think Metro Bank missed an 
opportunity to clarify how ATM disputes work despite quite a lengthy call. Mr A not being 
made aware of the process and timescales involved when raising the dispute wouldve 
caused D a greater level of inconvenience as it limited Mr As ability to plan and mitigate the 
situation effectively.
Taking this into account, I think £100 in total would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to reflect the inconvenience caused.
In summary, to put things right, Metro Bank should:
Refund £400;
Add 8% simple interest per year to this amount from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement;
Pay £100 compensation in total for the inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro 
Bank Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman