DRN-4207357
The complaint
Mr W and Miss C have complained about their landlord home emergency insurer U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI)  it failed to assist them with a claim, so they think its mis-sold them 
their policies for their three let properties.
What happened
Mr W and Miss C were made aware of a leak at one of the properties they let on 
20 December 2022. They advised the tenant to call UKI  the policy in question advertises 
that UKI will deal directly with the tenants and deal swiftly (within 4 hours) with the 
emergency. However, when Mr W checked in with the tenants a couple of hours later, he 
learned they had been unable to make contact with UKI. Mr W became involved in trying to 
remedy the situation. A few days later the matter remained unresolved, but Mr W did 
manage to speak to UKI. He was told to arrange his own repairer, which he did.  
Mr W and Miss C, noting they had specifically taken out the policy because of the support it 
purported to give to landlords, felt the three polices they had had been mis-sold to them. 
They asked UKI to refund all three policy premiums (totalling £240.75). UKI accepted that 
the service provided in December 2022 had been poor, it apologised to Mr W and Miss C, 
paid £50 compensation and invited Mr W to send it the invoice for repair so it could 
reimburse his outlay. It felt that was a fair and reasonable response and it didnt accept the 
policies had been mis-sold merely due to this one instance of service failings. Mr W and 
Miss C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator felt that the service from UKI had been poor and that the compensation it 
had offered should reasonably be increased to £100 to better reflect the upset caused. But 
she didnt think the failings in service, regarding one of the three policies, meant the policies 
had been mis-sold. So she wasnt minded to require UKI to reimburse the policy premiums. 
UKI agreed. Mr W and Miss C said they had taken the policies for the very specific purpose 
of the advertised support  and they hadnt received that. So they said it was clear the 
policies were not fit for purpose and, as such, had been mis-sold to them. They said, 
however, they wanted the whole situation to come to an end. They said that in settlement of 
their mis-sale complaint they would accept a compensation payment from UKI of £182 (on 
top of the £50 it had already paid), this being the invoice amount for emergency repairs of 
£132 plus the additional £50 compensation already recommended by our Investigator. They 
felt this should be agreeable to UKI as it had agreed to pay the £132.00 upon sight of 
invoices and the £50 recommended by our Investigator. Mr W and Miss C noted this would 
leave them with a net loss of £8.25 in total against the premium refunds they had asked for, 
given the £50 compensation UKI had already paid  but theyd settle for that.
Our Investigator shared Mr W and Miss Cs request with UKI. But it wasnt minded to agree 
to pay more. Our investigator confirmed to Mr W and Miss C that she was satisfied that her 
compensation award was fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the upset she 
accepted UKIs service failings had caused. The complaint was referred for an 
Ombudsmans consideration. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note UKI accepts that it failed Mr W and Miss C on this occasion. As it accepts that I dont 
need to consider that further. What I need to do is look at what the fair and reasonable 
remedy is for that. Whilst I know that Mr W and Miss C feel this is an issue of mis-sale, 
I dont agree the policies were mis-sold to them. This is not a case where UKI sold 
something it does not offer. Rather, whilst implementing the service sold, UKI was unable to 
meet the standards it had set out and agreed to deliver. Fair and reasonable compensation 
for such a failing is not to declare the policies were mis-sold. Rather it is to compensate fairly 
and reasonably for the losses incurred.
Mr W and Miss C had a cost to repair the property. UKI agreed as part of its complaint 
response to progress the claim for emergency repairs and reimburse Mr W and Miss Cs 
outlay once presented with an invoice evidencing the loss. I think that is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. It, as closely as reasonably possible, puts Mr W and Miss C back into 
the position they would have been in but for UKIs failings i.e. having made a successful 
claim without suffering a cost for completing repairs. Mr W and Miss C had the chance to 
present their invoice before complaining to us but I understand they wanted to wait until their 
complaint was completed. As UKIs offer was fair and reasonable, I wont direct it to do 
anything more in this respect at this time. If Mr W and Miss C want to present proof of their 
outlay to UKI for it to progress their claim, they are free to do so.  
There also though, is the distress and inconvenience suffered because of UKIs failure to 
handle the emergency for Mr W and Miss C. This caused them to have to make many calls 
and, ultimately, arrange the repairs. I also understand that they were caused some worry 
because the tenants were put to more inconvenience than theyd reasonably expected they 
would have suffered during this type of situation had UKI provided the service promised. But 
I bear in mind that this all happened over the period of just a few days. In the circumstances, 
Im satisfied that fair and reasonable compensation for distress and inconvenience caused 
here is £100. UKI has paid £50 already, so that leaves it with £50 to now pay. 
For clarity, Im aware that UKI has also made a compensation payment to the tenants. That 
is a separate issue to the award I have made here and does not affect what I am saying UKI 
should now pay to settle Mr W and Miss Cs complaint.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay a further £50 compensation, making total compensation due £100 where 
£50 has already been paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman