DRN-3740129
The complaint
Miss B complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118 Money)
did not remove a default from her credit file when they said they would.
What happened
Miss B had a credit card with 118 118 Money, who registered a default with the Credit
Reference Agencies (CRAs) relating to this account, but Miss B says that they shouldnt
have. She says that she was promised on numerous occasions that the default would be
removed, but it never was. Miss B made a complaint to 118 118 Money.
118 118 Money upheld Miss Bs complaint. They said that they had sent requests to two
CRAs to ask the default to be removed from her credit file. They said they sent follow up
requests to these CRAs on 20 August 2021. 118 118 Money said that once they had sent
these requests, it was up to the CRAs to update them as they had no access to her direct
credit file at the time. They accepted it was ultimately their responsibility to ensure that this
was done and they apologised that despite them following this up several times, the default
still showed on her credit file with one of the CRAs.
118 118 Money said that since they had last written to Miss B on 12 October, they had now
gained access to the CRAs portal who was displaying the default. They confirmed that they
had now removed the default from Miss Bs credit file with immediate effect and this would
be shown on her credit file when it next refreshed.
118 118 Money said that they had previously credited £50 to her account as a gesture of
goodwill for what happened. They said while Miss B told them this wasnt a benefit to her as
the account had terminated, the balance was still owed and as such the amount she needed
to pay them had been reduced. 118 118 Money paid £50 compensation to her bank account.
Miss B contacted 118 118 Money in January 2022. This is because the default was showing
on her credit file as being registered by them in November 2021. 118 118 Money responded
to say this was not their error. They said that the default was removed from her credit file on
6 December 2021. They said they had again removed the default and this should be
reflected in her credit report when it refreshes.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service. She complained about the way 118 118 Money
handled her complaint and she said that the issues had gone on for over eight months. Our
investigator explained we couldnt look into the complaint handling aspect of her complaint.
She said that while there may have been elements of Miss Bs experience which couldve
been better, she was satisfied that 118 118 Money had removed the default. Our investigator
said that she believed a total of £100 compensation was fair in the circumstances as while
Miss B was unhappy £50 was paid to her credit card instead of her bank account, this is a
common practice for creditors when there are arrears involved.
Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 118 118 Money contacted our
service to say they had recently written off the £231.18 balance of her credit card account as
Miss B advised she was struggling financially. They said they asked Miss B what she would
want as a resolution to her complaint, but Miss B made it clear she wanted an Ombudsman
decision.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain to Miss B that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and
as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how 118 118 Money have investigated
her complaint, do not come under my powers to consider. But I can consider the events
surrounding the default removal and any general poor customer service that Miss B may
have received.
Im persuaded that 118 118 Money have let Miss B down on a number of occasions during
the eight month period which Miss B described. I say this because when 118 118 Money
agreed to originally remove the default from Miss Bs credit file, there have been a number of
errors which occurred. Some of these errors were outside of 118 118s Money, such as
relying on the CRAs to update the information which they gave them in good faith that the
default should be removed, and some of the errors Im persuaded that 118 118 Money could
have done more to prevent.
When the first request was made to remove the default with the CRAs, this was not
reflected on her credit file with all of the CRAs. This wasnt realised until Miss B contacted
118 118 Money and made them aware of this. So what I would have expected 118 118
Money to do moving forward is to check that the default had been removed with the CRAs
and that it wasnt showing on Miss Bs credit file moving forward. I say this as 118 118
Money have explained to Miss B on the email they sent her on 6 December that ultimately it
is their responsibility to ensure the default was removed from her credit file. But this is not
what happened, despite 118 188 Moneys assurances that the default had been removed.
118 118 Money explained to Miss B that they had access to the CRAs portal which was still
showing the default, whereas previously they didnt have access to this. They told her that
they had removed the default from her account in their December response. So Miss B
would have expected the default to not be showing when her credit file was updated,
especially as 118 118 Money had told them they now had direct access to the CRA portal.
But when Miss B checked her credit file, it now showed they had registered a default in
November 2021.
118 118 Money have said they cant explain how the November entry on Miss Bs credit file
was showing as defaulted. They attached screenshots for me as an example to show that
they couldnt remove a default from a credit file unless they update every status code where
the default was recorded and that if they tried to remove a default without updating every
status code then they would get an error, therefore they do not understand how Miss Bs
account returned to showing a default for November only.
While I accept 118 118 Money genuinely tried to amend Miss Bs account status to show the
default had been removed, Im satisfied that they had a duty of care, especially in light of
what had previously happened, to ensure that moving forward the correct status was
reflected. When they directly accessed the CRA portal in January and amended the credit
file again to remove the default, there was no error on this attempt, and neither party have
said that the default showed on her credit file after her credit file was amended for the last
time on 14 January 2022.Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. Im pleased that Miss Bs
credit file does not show the default anymore. Ive also considered the actions that 118 118
Money have taken on this complaint. They have paid £100 compensation. And they have
also told us they have written off the balance of Miss Bs credit card.
But 118 118 Money told us they wrote off the credit card outstanding balance as a gesture of
goodwill because of Miss B financially struggling. So I dont think its proportionate for me to
say this was done because of the default not being removed, or to be considered when I
decide what is fair and reasonable compensation for the events which occurred.
Im satisfied 118 118 Money were reasonable to pay £50 of the £100 compensation off the
outstanding balance when they did as Miss B owed them money at the time. But Im not
persuaded that a total of £100 compensation is reasonable for what happened and Ill
explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the errors that occurred,
which 118 118 Money were ultimately responsible for ensuring the default was removed
from Miss Bs credit file, the time it took for this to finally be rectified and what 118 118
Money told Miss B throughout the events she is complaining about here. And Im satisfied
that an extra £125 should be paid to Miss B, so a total of £225 compensation would have
been paid.
Im satisfied that this is a fair amount as 118 118 Money did not pay Miss B any
compensation after Decembers response to her. This is despite them informing Miss B they
now had access to the CRA portal which had been showing the default. Their response
clearly said that they confirmed that the default has been removed (not should be removed,
but it has been removed) with immediate effect and this will be reflected on her credit report
when it next refreshes.
Im persuaded that the default showing in November, after 118 118 Money had went onto
the CRA portal, which would have the greatest impact on Miss B after all that she had went
through in the previous eight months since 118 118 Money had agreed to remove the
default, but 118 118 Money did not recognise the impact of this. In their response to Miss B
on 18 January 2022, theyve said it wasnt a result of their action.
While there may have been an error with the system 118 118 Money used, I would have
expected 118 118 Money to ensure there was no issues moving forward with a default
showing, for the reasons Ive already given. And as they had admitted previously that it was
ultimately their responsibility to ensure the default was removed, then Im persuaded 118
118 Money should have apologised to Miss B here, and compensated her for the further
impact this would have had on her, especially as their December response appeared that
everything would be fine moving forward. And they had let her down with the information
they gave her on more than one occasion about the default being removed, when ultimately
it hadnt been.
So it follows that I intend to ask 118 118 Money to put things right by paying Miss B an extra
£125 compensation for distress and inconvenience, so that the total compensation that they
have paid her over removing the default is £225.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. 118 118 Money accepted the provisional decision. Miss B responded to the 
provisional decision. She said over the weekend she had checked her credit report and one 
of the CRAs were reporting that her 118 118 Money account is six months late/in arrears. 
Miss B said it was only upon recently purchasing a subscription which shows her credit files 
from three of the major CRAs that she had noticed this, and this was why she had not known this previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Miss B has said about how one of the CRAs are reporting her account 
status with 118 118 Money as six months in arrears/late payments. But as this information 
had not previously been provided (due to Miss B only just discovering this information), then 
a separate complaint will need to be raised regarding this because it is a new event. This will 
give 118 118 Money a chance to investigate whats happened and respond to Miss B. So for 
that reason, I must be clear that this decision here, does not cover the new information that 
Miss B has provided our service. If she is not happy with 118 118 Moneys outcome, then 
she can of course bring that complaint to our service.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider regarding the 
original complaint Miss B has brought to our service, then my decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intended to ask 
Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money to pay Miss B a further £125 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the 
reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money should settle the 
complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman