DRN-3335905
Complaint
Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy 
with an overdraft. He questions whether the redress he received from the mis-sale has been 
calculated correctly.
Mr P has asked our Service to look at a number of redress-type complaints. So, to be clear, 
this decision is about his Barclays Bank overdraft facility which had PPI attached to it.
Background
One of our adjudicators provided Mr P with a view about this complaint. They said that they 
didnt think he was due any more PPI redress. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has come to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint as I dont think Mr P is due any more 
money from Barclays.
As with some of his other complaints, I think Barclays communications to Mr P could have 
been clearer. However, it seems in this case hes basically asking for a second opinion as 
to whether the redress he has already been paid by Barclays for this complaint is correct.
Essentially whats happened here is that Barclays has agreed that Mr P was mis-sold the 
PPI. However, I think the way it communicated the redress amount to Mr P was confusing 
and I note it had to correct the amount owed. I can understand why this caused an element 
of suspicion on Mr Ps part because he was sent a cheque and then advised not to cash it as 
another one was being issued.
However, I think its also fair to point out that retracing the transaction events of many years 
ago can be complicated, so Im going to stick to the main issues and events in Mr Ps case 
to keep things simple and understandable.
The first issue is that Barclays has already explained that it needed to make certain 
estimates in calculating the amount of PPI Mr P was ultimately charged on his account. 
This is because he seems to have had PPI going as far back as the 1990s. In my view, 
Barclays started by taking a wholly reasonable approach to determine where the starting 
point should be for his PPI and therefore in issuing him redress. For example, Barclays 
looked at when Mr P opened his bank account in the 1980s and also when it had evidence 
of when the first PPI payment could be seen on that account. And it then took the mid-point 
of these two dates and came up with October 1992. This became the starting point for 
calculating when PPI had been added to Mr Ps account.
The second issue I bear in mind is that Barclays has already acknowledge that the 
calculations could ultimately be somewhat approximate due to these uncertainties. 
However, it also said it took the position not to disadvantage Mr P in any way, which Ive 
taken to mean the calculations were more likely to be on the upside. I explain more about 
this later.
Following more analysis and discussions with Mr P, our adjudicator pointed out that some of 
Mr Ps account statement data was found and indicated a possibility that PPI had been 
added somewhat earlier than the date previously estimated by Barclays (and described 
above). Although it couldnt be certain that the PPI related to the same bank account, 
Barclays nevertheless agreed to re-look at how this potentially affected the mid-point (as 
above) and it agreed that it would push the mid-point back to October 1990 as suggested 
by our adjudicator, rather than October 1992. This meant Mr P was due more money in 
redress and more re-calculations were required.
As Ive said, Mr P has a number of Barclays complaints outstanding. And in referring to 
certain aspects of the redress for this case, I think hes confusing some aspects of the other 
complaints he has made. So, sticking to the main issues and events, the question for me 
here is do I think Mr P has been underpaid the redress hes due for his overdraft PPI case? I 
dont believe he has  and in fact, its possible in my view that the re-calculations provided 
(and now paid by Barclays) exceed what hes actually due. 
I say this because we know Mr P was initially offered £4,931.93 but this was re-calculated 
following the re-assessment of the PPI he paid in the early 1990s. Following that re-
calculation, Mr P has recently banked a cheque for redress from Barclays for the sum of 
£8,438.64. Barclays told us that it re-calculated that from 1 October 1990 - 3 April 1995 he 
received monthly PPI redress @ £2.37. From 1 May 1995 - 1 April 1998 it used £2.40 and 
from 1 May 1998 -1 April 1999 it used £8.00. Barclays then added interest at 8% and also a 
distress and inconvenience payment to arrive at a new final figure.
I can see these figures, together with some amounts already paid to Mr P have already been 
explained to him. I think its also reasonable to point out that Mr P himself isnt able to 
articulate on what basis he considers the overall redress to be wrong. I also note he banked 
the cheque for £8,438.64. Obviously, if Mr P had considered this amount to be wrong at the 
time, Id have expected him not to bank the cheque.
Im sorry Mr P has had to wait a while  weve been comprehensively checking what 
happened. In my view, he isnt due anything else back for his overdraft PPI Im afraid, and 
this is my final decision.
Final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
I do not direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman