DRN-2135997
The complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined his claim on his warranty.
What happened
In 2017 Mr C bought a sofa and two chairs. He also bought a five year warranty underwritten 
by Great Lakes to cover them. In 2019 his grandchild drew on one of the chairs with a felt tip 
pen. He tried to remove the stain with the wipes that he had purchased alongside the 
furniture, but this led to the colour fading where he had tried to clean. He made a claim on 
the warranty. He also raised concerns about a grove that had developed on the back rest of 
the chair.
Great lakes sent a technician out to inspect the chair. On receiving the technicians report, 
Great Lakes declined Mr Cs claims. The technician said that he thought the colour had 
faded due to a lack of maintenance by Mr C. And as there was no structural fault that caused 
this, it wouldnt be covered by the warranty. He also said the grove at the back of the chair 
had been caused by the leather stretching over time and was also not a defect, so this also 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr C didnt think this was fair, as the warranty didnt state that the sofa should be maintained 
in a particular way and it was otherwise in good repair, he made a complaint to Great Lakes. 
Great lakes didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it didnt agree with its technicians 
conclusion that the colour loss was due to lack of maintenance. However it said that as there 
was no structural defect, then colour loss wouldnt be covered under the warranty. It also 
agreed that the groove at the back of the chair wasnt covered as it was due to gradual 
damage.
Mr C didnt think this was fair, as he said it was cleaning the damaged area that caused the 
colour loss and this wouldnt be reasonably expected to happen. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said that as Mr C was using wipes he bought with the furniture, he was acting responsibly to 
try and mitigate his loss after the original stain. She recommended Great Lakes accept 
Mr Cs claim for the colour loss under the warranty. However she agreed that the groove on 
the back of the chair wouldnt be covered as it was due to the gradual stretching of the 
leather over time.
Mr C accepted our investigators view. However Great Lakes didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has said that as there isnt a structural defect with the chair, then the colour loss 
wouldnt be covered under the warranty. 
The warranty states as follows:
Upholstery
Where shown on your Certificate, Stains on fabric or leather furniture, mattresses (including 
mattress protectors) and carpets which are sudden and accidental resulting
from;
Food and beverages;
Ink, paint and dye;
Human and pet bodily fluids;
Cosmetics, soap and shampoo;
Wax and wax polish;
Glue and superglue;
Dye transfer from clothing and newspaper print;
Acids, bleaches, caustic and corrosive solutions and substances.
So as accidental ink stains are covered under the warranty, the original stain would 
reasonably be covered. However as Mr C tried to clean the area, when the claim was raised 
the problem became the colour loss in that area. 
Great Lakes has said that loss of colour to the leather isnt covered by warranty, unless it is 
caused by a defect in which case it would be covered by the following section:
Where shown on your Certificate Structural defects to fabric or leather furniture, mattresses
(including mattress protectors) following the expiry of the suppliers warranty
caused by
Defects to frames caused by breakage or becoming warped
Defects of mechanical, electric recliners and components
Bending and breakage of metal components
Broken zips, castors, and buttons
Separation of seams and stitching
Lifting or peeling of the hide on leather furniture
Loss of resilience to foam and fibre interiors
It says as the colour loss wasnt caused by a defect, the warranty wouldnt provide cover. I 
have considered whether Great Lakes has applied the warranty terms and conditions fairly in 
this case, and I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
The original problem Mr C could have claimed for was the ink stain on the chair. This was an 
accident cause by his Grandson. From looking at the warranty wording I think this would 
reasonably have been covered. 
However Mr C tried to mitigate his loss by first attempting to clean the chair to remove the 
stain. To do this he used wipes that were intended for use on furniture, having purchase 
them with the sofa and chairs. This was a reasonable step to take.
It is this that led to the colour loss. So when the claim was made, the visible damage was the 
colour loss and not the ink stain. But I dont think Mr C should be penalised for taking 
reasonable steps to remove the stain before making a claim.
I appreciate that colour loss of the leather isnt covered by the warranty. And dye transfer 
over time is listed as an exclusion. However I dont agree that this instance falls into either of these categories. I think the damage more fairly and reasonably should be considered as 
accidental damage. As the damage was both sudden and accidental. 
Great Lakes has said that its technician tried whipping other areas of the chair and no colour 
transfer occurred, so the colour loss may have happened over time rather than with the 
wipes. I have looked at the pictures of the chair form the visit to consider this. The area that 
Mr C has said the accident happened on is a significantly different colour to the rest of the 
chair. And there appears to be distinct patches where the colour has changed. Although I 
appreciate there is likely to be some colour loss from the leather over time, I wouldnt expect 
a difference in colour as distinct  or as patchy as can be observed in the photos on the same 
item of furniture. Further, I would expect that when seeking to remove a stain, a certain 
amount of force would be used when cleaning the furniture that may not have been 
replicated by the technician in his tests. So I think its more likely the colour loss was due to 
attempted stain removal by Mr C.
For these reasons I dont think Great Lakes has treated Mr C fairly by declining the claim for 
the colour loss on his chair. I will therefore require it to accept the claim under the accidental 
damage cover of the warranty. 
In relation to the grove on the back rest of the chair, I agree with our investigator that this is 
likely to have been cause by the leather stretching over time, which isnt covered by the 
warranty. So I wont ask Great Lakes to do anything further in relation to this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to accept Mr Cs claim for 
colour loss under the accidental damage cover of the warranty.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman