DRN-2534367
The complaint
Ms S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lost her identification documents putting her at risk of 
identity theft. Shes also unhappy about the customer service shes received.
Ms S is a sole trader and her name is also the name of her business. Her business has a 
bank account with Lloyds but Ms S doesnt have one in her own name. All references to 
Ms Ss account will be in respect of her business account. 
What happened
At the end of September 2020 Ms S went to a Lloyds branch to provide identity documents 
to update a change of name and address in relation to her business account. Lloyds process 
is that it scans the documents on to its system which get uploaded and is actioned by the 
relevant department. But this didnt happen in Ms Ss case with Lloyds telling her that her 
documents had been lost. Ms S needed to revisit a Lloyds branch again to restart the 
process and her details were updated by Lloyds at the end of October 2020. 
Ms S complained to Lloyds. In summary, she said:
The situation caused her a great deal of stress resulting in her spending three days in 
hospital, missing a court date and taking time off work;
It took her a few hours to travel back to the branch to update her address;
Shed been the victim of identity theft before, and is concerned it will happen again;
Her chequebook and letter were sent to her old address because of the delay to 
updating her address; 
Her business trading name wasnt updated;
The Lloyds relationship manager (RM) hadnt called her back as promised and gave 
her wrong information about her business loan repayment date.
Lloyds responded as follows:
It accepted itd lost copies of Ms Ss documents but reassured her that due to his 
security procedures, the documents wouldnt have left the branch and/ or its secure 
electronic systems;
It didnt think it could be held responsible for issues such as missing days off work;
The chequebook was sent automatically to Ms Ss old address because it hadnt 
been updated at that point;
Her business name wasnt changed as she hadnt completed a relevant form for this;
Her loan repayment date was correct and the RMs contact with Ms S was in line with 
what itd would expect.
For its errors, Lloyds offered and paid Ms S £150 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt think there was any evidence of financial loss to Ms S due to identity 
theft or fraud. Our investigator did recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S 
by banks error but she thought the offer of £150 already paid to Ms S, was fair. 
Ms S disagreed. She didnt think the compensation fully reflected all of the consequences 
Lloydss mistake had caused. So she asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Ms S, but I wont be addressing every 
single point shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of Ms Ss complaint. And where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ive 
decided matters on a balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened in light of the available evidence.
As far as some of the consequential losses Ms S is seeking to claim such as having to take 
time off from work, being hospitalised and missing a court date, I cant fairly say these were 
caused by Lloyds losing her documents. I dont think these were reasonably foreseeable 
consequences of anything done, or not done, by Lloyds. 
I do, however, think it was reasonably foreseeable consequence of its error that Ms S would 
need to travel back to a Lloyds branch to get her documents scanned again. I also consider 
the error led to an avoidable delay to an update to her business address, which in turn, led to 
her business chequebook being sent to her previous address. So Ill consider what 
compensation is due for these issues.
I cant see that Ms S has shown evidence of any financial loss as a result of Lloydss error. I 
can only make an award for things that have happened not for things that may or may not 
happen. Ive seen no evidence the documents scanned by Lloyds left its premises or have 
been sent outside of its secure electronic system. Similarly, whilst I can see the chequebook 
was sent to her previous address, she did collect this and doesnt seem to have reported any 
missed cheques. So all in all, Im satisfied there has been no financial loss due to Lloydss 
error. Ill now consider the inconvenience and distress caused to Ms S.
 
Ms S says she travelled for three hours from where she lived to visit a Lloyds branch when 
she was required to resubmit her identity documents. But this appears to have been her 
choice to travel this distance. Lloyds has confirmed Ms S could have used any one of its 
branches including one closer to where she now lives. So I cant fairly hold it responsible for 
the distance Ms S decided to travel to repeat the process.
Ms S also travelled to her previous address to collect the chequebook and a letter. But Ms S 
said she was visiting the area at the time, so I cant fairly say Lloyds caused her any 
inconvenience here. Further, whilst Ms S has concerns about the occupants having seen her 
personal information, it should be remembered this chequebook was for her business.
Nonetheless, I accept Lloyds did make a mistake that caused Ms S to make another trip to a 
branch and since it hasnt been able to explain what happened to her documents, this has 
understandably caused her concern. All things considered, taking into account all that Ive 
set out above, I consider £150 which has already been paid to Ms S by Lloyds, is fair. Ms S 
says she received more compensation when something similar happened a few years ago. 
But Im required to decide cases on an individual basis and on the facts of this particular 
case, Im satisfied the compensation already paid is fair and reasonable.
I note Ms Ss other complaint points involve customer service issues such as the Lloyds RM 
not calling her when arranged and being given the wrong information about a business loan repayment date. But Ive not seen any evidence of an error here. Neither do I think Lloyds 
have made an error by not updating Ms Ss business name as this required her to complete 
a change of name form. Once she did, I can see that Lloyds did action Ms Ss request.
So for all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Ms S will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint because I think the £150 already paid to Ms S by Lloyds 
Bank Plc, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman