DRN-3389065
The complaint
Mr R acquired a car in May 2018, by means of a hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Financial Services (MBFS). The 
agreement ended in July 2021, and his car was inspected and collected from his home by 
MBFSs agent. The agent did not identify any chargeable damage during this home 
inspection. 
Mr R complains about damage charges made by MBFS, after his car was inspected again 
one day later at the agents premises. He wants these charges to be withdrawn.  
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 10 February 2022, as follows.
Background 
Mr R complained to MBFS, saying:
His cars home inspection was undertaken by both MBFSs agent and himself (with a 
close relative)  no damage exceeding normal wear and tear, and thereby 
chargeable, was found
A video recording of the home inspection, which could be used as evidence, was 
made by the agent and provided to him 
He thought it was unfair to identify damage in a situation where he could not 
challenge this identification, particularly when no damage was identified in a situation 
on the previous day when he could have challenged
He also thought that MBFS were making unreasonable charges, at a time when it 
was benefitting from the general increase in value of used cars 
At the second inspection, if his car did have chargeable damage, this must have 
been inflicted after it was collected from his home
MBFS responded saying:
Mr R had been given, in advance, information about its inspection and collection 
procedure, which was correctly followed by its agent  
oall damage had been identified, and charges had been made, in accordance 
with its vehicle return standards
oif damage was restored, he was liable for the actual costs of doing so
oif damage was not restored, he was liable for the estimated costs of doing so
Mr R had also been given his collection report, where no damage in transit was noted
Mr R had received as well visual evidence of damage identified during the second 
inspection  each piece of damage had failed to meet the relevant repair standard
It was unable to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
Mr R then referred his complaint to us. He also provided to us a copy of the home inspection 
video.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part:
He felt the home inspection video did not show with sufficient clarity the extent of 
damage to Mr Rs car  but the photographic evidence provided to Mr R by MBFS 
was sufficiently clear
He also felt it was more likely that the car had been damaged during the 38 months 
of Mr Rs hire agreement, when it had travelled a little under 31,000 miles, than 
during the very short period while it was being collected at the end of Mr Rs 
agreement and inspected again
He felt as well that the three items of damage were all outside the acceptable limits of 
wear and tear, and that the charges made for two of these items (£140 in total) were 
fair and reasonable
But he felt the charge for the third item was too high and should be reduced
Our investigator noted that MBFS had charged (just over £770) for complete replacement of 
the third item, which had some cosmetic damage but was otherwise in full working order. He 
felt the item would not have been replaced if the car was sold at auction, but the damage 
would reduce its likely value by £250. 
On this basis, our investigator recommended that the total damage charge should be 
reduced to £390 (£140 + £250).  
Mr R disagreed with our investigator. He accepted charges of £140 for the first two items, 
but he maintained that the third item was not damaged when his car was inspected at his 
home and then collected. He argued it was most likely that the second inspection had been 
undertaken in a busy and congested environment, where his car could easily have been 
damaged. 
MBFS agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld in part. But it 
disagreed with his recommendation that the third damage item charge should be reduced to 
£250. It told us that the actual restoration cost for this item was just over £680, and it said 
the charge should be reduced to this figure, and not to £250.
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman. 
My provisional findings
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my provisional decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
On the one hand, Mr R asserts that damage to an item, for which MBFS has charged him 
just over £770, was not present when his car was home inspected and collected. He adds it 
was most likely that the second inspection was undertaken in a busy and congested 
environment, where his car could easily have been damaged. 
But Mr R accepts charges of £140 for two other damage items.
On the other hand, our investigator does not consider the home inspection video to be 
useable evidence, although he accepts the photographic evidence of damage beyond 
normal wear and tear. He also argues it was more likely that the car had been damaged 
during the 38 months of Mr Rs hire agreement, when it had travelled a little under 
31,000 miles, than during the very short period while it was being collected at the end of 
Mr Rs agreement and inspected again.But our investigator further argues that the charge of just over £770 for one item is too high, 
and that £250 would be fair or reasonable  because £250 better reflects the cars likely loss 
of value of at auction, caused by the damage. While MBFS tells us that the cost of restoring 
this item was just over £680, and it argues that the charge should be reduced to this figure.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I share our investigators view about the home 
inspection video and the photographic evidence. And the agents second inspection report 
lists the damage items. So, I find that Mr Rs car was damaged at the time of its second 
inspection.
The agents home inspection report describes various aspects of the cars condition, but it is 
silent about damage  it neither lists, nor does it confirm the absence of, damage. I also 
share our investigators view that damage was more likely to have occurred before the home 
inspection than afterwards.
So, on balance, I am unable to find that no damage was present when his car was home 
inspected. This means that Mr R should pay fair and reasonable damage charges. 
I note that, by signing his hire agreement with MBFS, Mr R agreed to its Vehicle Return 
Standards (VRS). I also note VRS states that, if damage is restored by MBFS, the hirer is 
liable for the actual costs of restoration. And, in these circumstances, I can only disagree 
with our investigators argument that the charge for one damage item should be reduced to 
£250. 
I find that I agree with MBFSs argument: it is fair and reasonable, and in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of Mr Rs hire agreement, for MBFS to charge the actual restoration 
cost of this item.
My provisional decision and responses
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  My provisional settlement 
recommendation is that Mr R should pay charges to MBFS of £140 for two damage items, 
plus the actual cost of restoring the third item. 
MBFS replied accepting my provisional decision and settlement recommendation.  
Mr Rs response was delayed, because a close family member sadly passed away shortly 
after my provisional decision was sent to him. I extend my condolences for his loss.
Mr R responded pointing out an inaccuracy in the text of my decision: I described the home 
inspection video provided to us by Mr R as his video  but it was actually prepared by 
MBFSs collection agent. I apologise for this inaccuracy, which has now been corrected. 
Mr R argued that, because the video was prepared by MBFSs agent, it must be considered 
useable evidence. He further argued this video evidence supported his view, that the third 
damage item (identified in his cars second inspection) was not present when his car was 
first inspected at his home. He wants the charge for restoring the third item to be withdrawn.
A few weeks later, Mr R told us that MBFS had emailed him, saying that we had instructed it 
to remove the third item. As a result, he paid it £140 for the two other damage items. 
On the same day, MBFS told us that Mr R had emailed it, also saying that we had instructed 
it to remove the third item and seeking clarification. Our investigator assured both parties 
that no such instruction had been issued.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my final decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Mr O noted that, in my provisional decision, the balance of probabilities fell on the side of 
MBFS. He considered that, as a result, his integrity was being brought into question. This 
was not my intention, and I do not seek to cast doubt on Mr Os sincerity. But, faced with 
contradictory pieces of evidence, I do have to decide which piece I feel is more likely to be 
accurate in the wider circumstances.   
My incorrect description of the home inspection video, pointed out by Mr O, does not change 
my view about whether or not it is useable evidence. When I came to this view, I took into 
account the videos contents and clarity, and I did not consider who had prepared it. So, I do 
not agree with Mr O that it must be thought of as useable evidence.
In the absence of further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to change the findings or 
settlement recommendation in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
MBFS invoiced Mr O £140, relating to two damage items. Mr O has accepted these charges, 
and I understand that he has paid MBFS £140. 
MBFS also invoiced Mr O £772.68, relating to a third damage item. In response to my 
provisional settlement recommendation, MBFS has agreed to reduce that charge to the 
actual cost of restoring this item (£680.69), which will then be payable by Mr O. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  In 
full and final settlement, I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as 
Mercedes Benz Financial Services, to reduce its charge to Mr O for the outstanding damage 
item to £680.69.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman