DRN-3171392
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined his claim 
for a stolen bicycle.
What happened
Mr Ps bicycle cover commenced on 12 April 2021. In August 2021 Mr P reported the bike as 
stolen to Watford and the police.
When reporting the bike to Watford, he explained the bike had been secured outside the 
front of his house whilst he went inside to use the washroom. When he returned around 
10-15 minutes later the bike was gone.
Watford asked specific questions about how the bike had been secured. Mr P explained it 
was secured with D lock through the folks and wheel. Watford then assessed the claim and 
declined it, they said Mr P hadnt secured the bike in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Mr P referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator felt Watford hadnt declined the 
claim unfairly and didnt need to do anything more. As Mr P remained unhappy it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr P and have explained why below.
Watford have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject 
a claim unreasonably. Theyve referred to page 6 of the policy booklet which outlines the 
security requirements. It says:
All bicycle(s) must be left locked, as per the Lock Requirements below, when they 
are: Within your insured location and left in an open area.
The bicycle must be locked through the frame and to a fixed, immovable object that 
the bicycle cannot be lifted under or over. 
In the whats not covered section the policy also says:
Any  claim  where  you have  not complied  with the lock requirements  and security  
requirements,  above,  in the 'Important  Information  section.
When Mr P first reported the bike stolen, the agent asked which part of the bike was 
secured. It was established he had secured it via the folks and wheel to the gate outside his 
house. The agent asked specific questions to better understand how it was secured such as 
if Mr P locked any other part of the bike or if any of the main frame was locked. Mr P 
answered no. The agent then repeated his understanding of how the bike was locked, 
through the wheel and folks, and Mr P confirmed his understanding was correct. 
The terms of the policy clearly explain the bicycle must be locked through the frame. As Mr P 
hadnt complied with this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Watford to decline the claim.
I appreciate Mr P said at the time he reported it he wasnt in the best frame of mind and he 
later called Watford to explain he had in fact locked it via the frame. However, Watford were 
entitled to assess the claim based on the information given at the point of claim, and I find 
this account most persuasive as it was the first discussion about it and was on the same day 
the bicycle was stolen.
Mr P said he hadnt read the terms of conditions so wasnt aware of the locking requirement. 
However, Watford are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to take, and they had 
explained in the schedule of insurance that the cover was subject to the terms and 
conditions, limitations and exclusions contained in the policy wording. It was up to Mr P to 
read them to ensure it covered his needs and that he was aware of what was and wasnt 
covered. He also had 14 days to cancel the policy free of charge if the policy didnt meet his 
needs.
Overall, Im satisfied Watford considered Mr Ps claim fairly and havent declined it 
unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman