DRN-1336157
 
The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about Santander UK Plc handling of his accounts.
What happened
Mr M says he made complaints to Santander about blocks applied to his account. He says 
Santander took money from his basic account to repay a different account which meant his 
account was overdrawn despite a repayment plan being agreed. Mr M says as a result of 
what took place he lost job opportunities and was forced to attend a branch. He would like 
his account facilities reinstated and compensation for Santander's mistakes. He also says he 
made an agreement with Santander, which takes the place of any account terms and 
conditions.
Santander doesn't accept making a mistake and says it removed the overdraft balance  on 
one of Mr M's accounts and transferred it to the other in line with account terms and 
conditions. It says it did that to avoid defaulting the account as Mr M hadn't kept to an 
agreed repayment plan.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had previously agreed to pay compensation to Mr M that would have 
cleared his overdrawn balance but Mr M wished to receive the money himself and a 
repayment plan was agreed. The investigator thought that plan hadn't been kept to and so 
didn't think Santander made a mistake by taking the action it did, and thought that action 
was in line with the account terms and conditions. The investigator also thought Santander 
had tried to help Mr M.
Mr M doesn't accept that view and says Santander agreement with him has the effect of 
replacing account terms and conditions and makes them null and void. He says he didn't 
agree to the account terms and conditions in any event and didn't agree an overdraft facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I'm satisfied Mr M would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see those terms and conditions allow 
Santander to take the action it did here, by applying the overdrawn balance on one account 
to Mr M's basic account. I accept that Mr M's basic account didn't have an agreed overdraft 
facility but I'm satisfied Santander didn't make a mistake or act unfairly and was entitled to 
take the action it did. I also think the overall effect was the same, that Mr M owed Santander 
money.
There is no question here that Santander had made a mistake that resulted in it paying compensation. Mr M doesn't question that award and agreed to the compensation offer. I 
also think that Mr M agreed to a repayment plan but the terms of it were not kept by Mr M. 
So I don't think in those circumstances Santander acted unfairly by taking the steps it did. I 
also don't think any agreement replaced any account terms and conditions as Mr M says but 
in any event I have explained that I don't think Mr M kept to the terms of the agreement.
I have listened to the calls between the parties and overall I think Santander was trying to 
help Mr M but the agreement was broken. As I don't think Santander has acted unfairly or 
made a mistake then I can't fairly order it to pay Mr M compensation or reinstate any account 
facilities.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman