DRN-3713746
The complaint
X complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly charged him interest on his credit 
card account while he had a promotional offer in place.
What happened
X says he took out a promotional interest free money transfer offer on his credit card account 
from Barclays in August 2021, which was available until February 2023. X says after taking 
up the offer he realised the increased usage on his credit card account had impacted his 
credit score. X says he then contacted Barclays and asked for the offer to be retracted, if he 
were to return the funds he had drawn, but it refused to do so. X says despite this and 
although he had paid some of the balance back to the credit card account, Barclays charged 
him interest when he believed he still had the promotional interest free offer available until 
February 2023. 
X wants Barclays to honour the interest free promotional offer until February 2023, reverse 
any interest and charges applied and compensate him for the financial pressure he has 
experienced.
Barclays says X took up the promotional offer and it fairly applied the associated fees, but 
when X repaid the amount drawn under the promotional offer that didnt mean he could 
redraw it at a later stage. Barclays says interest was charged on Xs credit card account 
because any previous promotional offers had since lapsed. 
X wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Barclays had no obligation to reverse the promotional offer once X had 
accepted and drawn it. The investigator felt Barclays had charged the interest correctly as X 
wasnt entitled to redraw the promotional offer at a later date, having previously repaid it, as 
he thought. 
X didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for X to have believed he still had access to 
interest free borrowing on his credit card account, only to discover that wasnt the case. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays acted fairly when it charged interest 
to Xs credit card account. 
The first thing to say here is X did accept the terms and conditions of the interest free 
promotional transfer offer from Barclays when he drew down the facility in August 2021. So, 
with that in mind its fair to say Barclays were entitled to charge the associated fees at that 
time, in line with the terms and conditions of the offer.
What happened here was X discovered that the increased usage on his credit card account 
with Barclays had impacted his credit score. As a result, I can see X contacted Barclays 
asking it to retract the promotional offer  but it refused to do that.  While X may not agree, I 
cant say Barclays were obliged to agree to this after X had drawn down the facility, nor was 
it obliged to refund any charges associated with it. 
Xs complaint centres around the fact the interest free promotional transfer offer from 
Barclays clearly states it was available until February 2023, and so he shouldnt be charged 
any interest until that time, but he was. 
While I understand the point X makes here, Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this because from the credit card statements I have seen, X made payments back to his 
credit card account in early November 2021 in excess of £7,500. Its worth mentioning 
alongside the interest free promotional transfer offer of £6,000, X had in place an existing 
promotional spending offer expiring that same month. So here, from the payment he made 
into his credit card account in early November 2021, a proportion of it was used to clear the 
spending offer of around £2,300 due to expire, and the remaining sum of approximately 
£5,200 to reduce the transfer offer, and this was then fully repaid the following month. 
X here feels the offer should be treated like other finance agreements and the fact he repaid 
it shouldnt prevent him from benefiting from the promotional interest free offer until its expiry 
in February 2023. While X may think that, unfortunately thats not the case here, the original 
promotional interest free offer to which he refers, relates specifically to a bank transfer offer 
which he had already drawn in August 2021. 
While I understand X wanted to repay this offer and did so, as it had affected his credit 
score, thats not to say Barclays were obliged to allow X to then re-use this repaid facility for 
other credit card purchases and expenditure. Its worth saying this offer related to a bank 
transfer only and that had been utilised in full and repaid, and there was no agreement for it 
to be drawn again for credit card purchases as X believed. Its reasonable to say that any 
other promotional offers going forward are at the discretion of Barclays here. 
While X will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied Barclays have applied the 
interest charges fairly here, so I wont be asking anymore of it here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman