DRN-2339025
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc havent reimbursed money he sent to a fraudster.
 
What happened
Mr O received unsolicited contact from someone claiming to represent an investment 
company. The caller claimed that a particular stock would go up 30-40% in early trading that 
day and that they already held a significant amount of the stock, which theyd reserve for Mr 
O  with no obligation to buy. 
Mr O was sceptical of the approach  but was directed towards a professional looking 
website and provided with an FCA number. 
When the share price did rise broadly as predicted, Mr O got back in touch with the caller. 
He questioned why they didnt just sell the shares and take the profit that hed be receiving. 
The explanation, he says, was that such a sale would breach insider trading rules. 
By this point, Mr O was convinced by the legitimacy of the caller. Unfortunately for Mr O, he 
had actually been contacted by a fraudster whod impersonated or cloned a genuine 
authorised individual
The genuine authorised individual was an insurance broker based in another European 
country. Though Mr O was given the FCA number of the genuine authorised individual, the 
website hed been directed towards was operated by the fraudsters to give the impression 
they were an investment company. 
On 30 September 2019, Mr O made a payment of £8,384.22 to a bank account in another 
country. A week or so later the fraudsters contacted Mr O again. They promised more 
money could be made if Mr O traded his existing shares for different ones and made a 
further investment. On 10 October 2019, he made a further payment of £19,671 to the same 
account. A £4 charge was applied to each payment. 
The fraudsters suggested a third deal a few weeks later  this time asking Mr O to send 
£12,500 to a UK bank account. They said that in order to sell his existing shares, hed need 
to purchase more. Mr O says he wasnt sure about this and, although he still trusted the 
fraudsters, he wanted to understand how the FCA would protect him if something went 
wrong.  After contacting both the FCA and, on their advice, the equivalent organisation in the 
European country where the genuine individual was based, he realised hed been the victim 
of a scam. 
On 5 November 2019 he contacted HSBC to report the scam. They, in turn, contacted the 
bank which received Mr Os money. It said that some funds did remain but that they would 
only be returned if HSBC provided an indemnity (something HSBC was not prepared to do).
About a month later the FCA published a warning about fraudsters impersonating the 
genuine individual. 
Mr O complained but HSBC said that, as the payments were authorised, they couldnt do 
anything further. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. They 
thought that HSBC ought to have questioned Mr O before processing the payments and, if 
theyd done so, the scam would have come to light and been prevented. 
HSBC disagreed, in summary it said:
- The payments were not, contrary to the investigators findings, unusual and neither 
was it unusual for customers to make international payments
- Mr O holds a U.S. Dollar account which has a considerable balance and shows some 
evidence of share trading, which suggests he is an experienced investor
- Too high a standard had been imposed on HSBC. The law did not suggest it ought to 
act as amateur detective and the obligations the investigator suggested it had were 
unrealistic
- Mr O must, at the very least, bear some responsibility for the loss as he instructed 
the payments and didnt carry out any due diligence
Our investigator responded to HSBC, but they havent provided any further submissions. So, 
the case was passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that this was an authorised transaction even though Mr O was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to make the payments. So, although he 
was tricked into making the payment, under the terms and conditions of his account, Mr O is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied the payments Mr O made did stand out and werent consistent with how he 
normally used the account. The largest payment he made in the six months before the scam was a £3,300 transaction to a beneficiary in the U.K. I also cant see Mr O made any 
international transfers in those six months. And, while I can see one credit to the account of 
a similar size to the first disputed payment, in the context of account monitoring for 
indications of financial harm, I think its the outbound payments which are most relevant 
here.
HSBC have mentioned that Mr O holds a U.S. Dollar account too. Theyve been able to 
provide only very limited evidence of this account. I can see that it held a balance of about 
£9,000 and that there were two credits received into it.  I cannot see any debits from the 
account nor any evidence of share trading. So, even if I was to consider Mr Os account 
holdings as a whole, theres nothing about the activity on the U.S. Dollar account which 
makes me think the disputed transactions were any less remarkable.
Overall, I think both transactions were inconsistent with Mr Os normal account usage and 
ought to have indicated to HSBC that he may have been at risk from financial harm. 
So, I think HSBC should have taken the further step of calling Mr O to discuss the payments 
before processing them.
Ive thought carefully about what might have happened had Mr O been contacted by HSBC 
to discuss the payments. Mr O had not been given a cover story or told to mislead the bank, 
so its reasonable to think that he would have been open and honest about what he was 
doing. 
While I dont suggest the bank should act as amateur detective, given the unusual nature of 
these transactions, I would expect some simple probing questions to have been asked about 
the activity he was undertaking and for a bank to make a customer aware that firms can be 
cloned. In terms of questioning, the obvious starting point would be asking how hed found 
out about the investment opportunity and what exactly the opportunity was.
Mr O had been cold called  which ought to have given HSBC some cause for concern, 
given how prolifically the technique is used by fraudsters. The investment opportunity was 
also concerning. The fraudsters said they could predict how the market was going to behave 
and that they had insider knowledge which allowed them to make such predictions. And, 
more strangely, theyd already purchased the stock and would put some aside for Mr O. 
It's not clear how the fraudsters predicted the share price increase  its possible they 
guessed lucky or, as has been known, called lots of different potential victims and gave them 
different predictions  giving the impression they were able to predict the stock market only 
to those who received the correct prediction.
Regardless of how they did it, the fact they claimed to be able to ought to have given HSBC 
further concern. HSBC ought to have known that the stock market cannot be predicted (at 
least with any degree of accuracy) and any claim that it could be was likely to be as a result 
of manipulation or fraud. In any case, the reasons the fraudsters did put forward to explain 
this  that they had insider information, should have raised further alarm bells. I find it very 
unlikely that a genuine company would make such a statement.
If Mr O had revealed these facts (and I think he would have) its likely the conversation would 
have then naturally turned to the identity of the investment company. Firms like HSBC are 
well aware of the existence of cloned firms and ought to have known that the mere fact Mr O 
had been given an FCA number did not, in itself, demonstrate that the people he was 
speaking to were regulated. Mr O ought to have been directed to compare the details on the FCA website to those hed 
been given. Had he done that, he would have seen that the details did not match. In fact, the 
cloned firm was actually an individual, based in another country, authorised to do a 
completely different type of activity.
Mr O did take similar steps after making the payments and I think he would have done so 
had HSBC mentioned the possibility that firms could be cloned during the conversation. I 
dont think what I suggest is too onerous  just a few short questions and some sensible 
advice about cloned firms and investment scams. 
Finally, Ive thought about whether Mr O should bear any responsibility for the loss by way of 
contributory negligence. Despite HSBCs assertion, Im satisfied Mr O was not an 
experienced investor and had limited knowledge of the way fraudsters, particularly 
sophisticated investment fraudsters, operate. Mr O was clearly cautious about the fraudsters 
initial approach  but I dont think thats an indication that he knew, or ought to have known, 
the caller was fraudulent. I dont think its unusual for someone to be somewhat put off by an 
unsolicited approach. While I accept there were other steps Mr O might have taken to verify 
the authenticity of the investment (steps he eventually did take), I can see why being 
supplied with an FCA number, seeing a convincing looking website and paperwork, 
considering his knowledge and experience, reassured him about the legitimacy of the caller.
While Mr O did express some scepticism about why the fraudsters would not simply sell the 
stock themselves, without having much knowledge in the area, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to believe what he was told. I also think it was reasonable for Mr O to 
become concerned when the fraudsters said Mr O would only be able to sell his shares if he 
purchased more and I can see why this prompted him to carry out further checks.
HSBC, on the other hand, are the experts. Theyd be well aware of scams of this nature, 
how the operate and what the warning signs were. So, I dont think Mr O should bear any 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that HSBC should refund Mr Os loss, 
including the charges applied to each transaction, without any reduction. It appears Mr O 
funded the transactions from a savings account and it seems likely the money would have 
remained there but for the fraud. So, like the investigator, I think the interest should be paid 
at the savings account rate. 
  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Mr O the amount of the two disputed transactions  £28,055.22; plus
Pay Mr O the charges for the two transactions  £8; and
Pay interest on the sums above at the savings account rate from the date of loss to 
the date of refund  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman