DRN-4232883
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about how St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) dealt with a claim 
under a home insurance policy.
Im aware Mrs C is represented but, for ease, Ive normally only referred to Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs C contacted St Andrews following a water leak in her home. St Andrews accepted the 
claim. Mrs C later complained because of delays with dealing the claim and the cash 
settlement offered.
When St Andrews replied to the complaint, it accepted there had been delays in progressing 
the claim, for which it offered £150 compensation. However, it said it was unable to provide a 
breakdown of costs for the scope of work as this was business sensitive information.
So, Mrs C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
St Andrews had been responsible for some delays, but noted Mrs C had caused some 
delays during the claim as well. He also said it was also reasonable for St Andrews to settle 
the claim at the cost to itself and not to provide Mrs C with a breakdown of the costs. He said 
the £150 compensation St Andrews offered was fair in the circumstances.
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
St Andrews told Mrs C it could settle the claim by its contractors doing the work or by it 
paying a cash settlement. Mrs C opted for a cash settlement. St Andrews said it would only 
pay the amount it would have cost it to do the work, rather than the amount in a quote Mrs C 
had obtained. Mrs C wanted the claim paid at the cost to her and to get a breakdown of how 
St Andrews had calculated its settlement figure.
Looking at the policy wording, this allowed St Andrews to decide how to settle the claim. 
Where an insurer offers to carry out the repair and a policyholder chooses to accept a cash 
settlement, this service would say it was fair for the insurer to offer the amount it would have 
cost it to do the work as the settlement amount. I dont think it was unusual that St Andrews 
offered a lower amount than Mrs Cs quote, as an insurer can often get better rates than a 
policyholder. But it didnt need to pay the amount in Mrs Cs quote because she didnt want 
St Andrews to do the work. Based on what Ive seen, I think St Andrews offer to settle the 
claim was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs C also wanted to see the breakdown of how St Andrews had calculated the cash 
settlement amount. St Andrews said it wouldnt provide this as it was commercially 
sensitive. Im aware a member of Mrs Cs family offered to sign a confidentiality agreement 
to see the full breakdown. However, insurers dont have to provide business sensitive 
information, such as the rates theyve negotiated with contractors, and I cant require it to do 
so.
Mrs C has more recently raised concerns with this service that the tiles used to calculate the 
settlement werent of a similar quality to the damaged ones. She has also said the room 
measurements were wrong. Mrs C would need to raise these issues with St Andrews in the 
first instance, so it has the chance to consider them. Im unable to comment on them as part 
of considering this complaint.
Mrs C also complained about delays with the claim. I have looked at what happened and can 
see there were some delays caused by St Andrews contractors, such as not following up on 
the trace and access quote as quickly as it could have and having to be chased for progress. 
I note Mrs C also seemed to contribute to the delays. For example, she seemed to turn 
contractors away, as she didnt want trace and access carried out to find the source of the 
leak and also had to be chased for a response on how she wanted to settle the claim. So, I 
think St Andrews was responsible for some elements of the delays with progressing the 
claim, but not all of them. I think the £150 compensation St Andrews offered was reasonable 
in the circumstances.
So, having considered all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require St Andrews 
to do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman