DRN-3739923
The complaint
Ms D and Mr K complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt offer them suitable support when 
they experienced financial difficulties. Mr K has dealt with the complaint throughout. Mr K 
asks for a temporary period of interest only payments without any adverse effect on his 
credit file while they sell the property. Hes unhappy with the time hes spent dealing with 
HSBC and asks that it covers his costs of about £4,500 (for lost work and borrowing to cover 
his outgoings) and pays compensation of £3,000 for the effect this had on him.
What happened
Mr K and Ms D had a joint mortgage with HSBC. Mr K contacted HSBC for support in 
October 2021 as he was in financial difficulty. Mr K and Ms D had separated and Mr K was 
living in rented accommodation. This increased their outgoings. Mr K wasnt happy with the 
options offered by HSBC. Hes also unhappy with the call wait times, having to speak to 
multiple different people and HSBC not calling him when it said it would. Mr K says his 
unsecured debt is increasing as hes borrowing to cover his outgoings. 
Mr K says HSBC: 
has a complaints process that isnt fit for purpose. He says it failed to understand his 
complaint is that it has put in place unreasonable barriers and unfair policies to dismiss 
the prospect of genuine assistance.
failed to offer him any reasonable assistance. He said the options it offered were generic 
and would have affected his credit file, and potentially his work and future borrowing. He 
says it sought to abdicate responsibility by suggesting he seek independent financial 
advice.
refused to extend his mortgage term on the basis this was unaffordable, even though 
payments would be lower than currently and he could have applied for a longer term 
originally.
has an interest only lending policy that only top earners can meet and is unnecessarily 
restrictive. 
Our investigator said HSBC had to consider affordability before agreeing changes to 
mortgages, such as extending the term or payment basis. It offered forbearance measures 
and didnt treat Mr K and Ms D unfairly. Our investigator said HSBC had apologised for the 
call wait times.
Mr K didnt agree. He particularly wanted me to look into HSBCs refusal to extend the term 
on the basis this was unaffordable, even though payments would be lower than currently and 
he could have applied for a longer term originally. Mr K says this is a breach of mortgage 
regulations and will force him into financial difficulties. Mr K said they are selling the 
property, and hope the sale will complete in the near future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules of mortgage regulation require lenders to treat borrowers facing financial difficulty 
fairly, to try and ensure the mortgage can be paid and to ensure repossession is a last 
resort. The rules require lenders to consider what forbearance options are appropriate in the 
circumstances of the individual customer. This includes considering whether its appropriate 
to extend the mortgage term or change the payment type.  
Mr K told HSBC he was in financial difficulty due to a change in his circumstances which 
increased his outgoings. He provided income and expenditure information to HSBC. Mr K 
didnt say he expected his financial circumstances to improve so that mortgage payments 
would become affordable again. Mr K and Ms D intend to sell the property. At different times 
in late 2021 Mr K told HSBC they intended to sell the property next year, in two to three 
years or in future years. Mr K needed support until the property was sold.
HSBC offered a payment arrangement that it assessed as affordable based on the 
information Mr K provided. Mr K said he wanted to pay more, to cover the interest each 
month so that the debt didnt increase. A temporary interest only concession and a payment 
arrangement amount to much the same thing. In either case, HSBC agrees to collect less 
than the full monthly payment for a few months to give a customer breathing space. This 
gives them time to get things back on track, if possible, take advice about their options or in 
this case look into selling the property.
Mr K declined the options offered by HSBC as he didnt want an arrangement that would be 
recorded on his credit file. Mr K wanted to change the mortgage onto interest only terms 
and/or extend the term. Mr K was aware that he didnt meet HSBCs criteria for an interest 
only mortgage or term extension. He wanted HSBCs financial support team to agree the 
changes as a concession, on the basis he was a mortgage prisoner.
This brings me to what Mr K says his complaint is about: that HSBC has put in place 
unreasonable barriers and unfair policies to dismiss the prospect of genuine assistance. 
The regulator of financial services, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules for 
lenders that it expects them to abide by. The rules can be found in the FCAs Handbook, 
available online, in the chapter headed MCOB. One of the rules says that where a lender is 
considering granting a new mortgage application, or considering varying an existing 
mortgage (for example, extending the term or changing the payment method), it must do an 
affordability assessment, to determine ability to repay the mortgage. There are particular 
rules on offering interest only mortgages.
Lenders have different priorities when taking on (or renewing) mortgage business. Different 
lenders can legitimately have different views about their risk appetites. The FCA requires 
firms to have, and apply, lending policies. 
Mr K says the changes he wanted would reduce his monthly payments and this makes, he 
thinks, HSBCs decision illogical. But the rules require a mortgage to be affordable, and this 
one wasnt even with the changes Mr K wanted. Mr K also said they could have originally 
taken out the mortgage with a longer term (when their income was higher and their 
expenditure lower). However, the rules require that when varying the mortgage, affordability 
is assessed against current income. 
Mr K and Ms D didnt meet HSBCs criteria for the changes to the mortgage that Mr K wanted. Their circumstances had changed, and Mr K was in a difficult position. I appreciate 
his concern that his employment and ability to borrow could be affected if an underpayment 
arrangement was recorded on his credit file. 
HSBC said it couldnt extend the term of Mr K and Ms Ds mortgage because the monthly 
payments, while lower, would still be unaffordable. It didnt consider this was an appropriate 
way to offer support. Mr K and Ms D didnt meet HSBCs income criteria for an interest only 
mortgage. I dont know if HSBC would have assessed Mr Ks proposed repayment strategy 
(sale of the house Ms D and their children were living in) as a credible repayment strategy. 
HSBC did offer support to Mr K. It offered an underpayment arrangement. I think it was fair 
for HSBC to say an underpayment arrangement would be recorded on Mr Ks credit file (and 
of course Ms Ds credit file). This would be an accurate reflection of the mortgage account. 
I appreciate that Mr K is knowledgeable about mortgages. I dont think it was unfair for 
HSBC to suggest he seek independent financial advice. It was for Mr K to decide if this was 
something he wanted to do. And I think HSBC did explain the available options. They just 
werent the options Mr K was hoping for. 
HSBC acknowledged and apologised for long call wait times. Mr K had to complete income 
and expenditure information and discuss his options with HSBC. While I can appreciate this 
was time consuming, I think this was necessary for HSBC to consider what support it could 
offer. Mr K was entitled to ask HSBC to consider other options, and to raise a complaint. I 
dont think I can fairly require HSBC to pay compensation for the time he spent doing this.
Lastly, Mr K complains about how HSBC dealt with his complaint. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity, so it isnt something we can necessarily look into. While I can look into the 
way a complaint was dealt with if it affected the resolution of the underlying problem, I dont 
think that was the case here. HSBC had, before Mr K made his complaint, offered support 
with his financial difficulties, as rules on mortgage regulation require it to do.  
Im sorry about the difficult circumstances Mr K and Ms D were dealing with, and that HSBC 
didnt offer support in the form Mr K would have preferred. But overall I dont think it treated 
Mr K and Ms D unfairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman