DRN-2696483
The complaint
Miss L feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation some cosmetic 
goods and services she purchased from a salon with a finance agreement.
  
What happened
In September 2018 Miss L entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and services. 
These goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through credit provided by 
Etika. This credit was a fixed sum loan agreement for a total cash price of £1700 of which 
£1530 was provided through credit by Etika. It was to be repaid over twenty-four monthly 
repayments. She signed the agreement electronically.
Miss L says that she received two treatments from the salon, and she feels her skin was 
damaged. And then she discovered the salon had unexpectedly closed. So she wanted to 
get out of the agreement. So she spoke to Etika who acknowledged there had been a 
breach of contract offered her a financial settlement. Miss L feels their settlement was unfair. 
So she complained to this service.
Our investigator explained what she thought Miss L should be liable for under such a 
settlement but Etika didnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss L raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers contracts where 
goods and/or services are provided.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss L has a claim for material misrepresentation 
or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. Etika says Miss 
L should receive a significant reduction in what she owes in light of the acknowledged 
breach of contract.
Bearing in mind Etika has acknowledged that the entire course of treatments hasnt been 
provided and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need to consider how this matter 
should be resolved fairly between the parties.
Ive considered the invoice from the salon. I can see its personalised with Miss Ls name and 
it says Client signed invoice and collected products and device. I can see it sets out that 
the agreement is for twelve treatments, four diagnostics and three other items. It notes that 
£170 has been paid direct by Miss L and that £1530 is being paid for through Etika. 
I can see from the invoice she left the salon with the products. Miss L has described how she 
received two treatments and returned two of the products because she wasnt happy. Then 
the salon ceased trading before she could complete the course of treatments. So I think 
Etikas approach of accepting that there has been a breach of contract and offering a 
settlement is broadly fair.
Miss L has pointed to other customers of the salon getting different results for their claims for 
treatments and products. But I can only consider here the merits of Miss Ls situation. But it
is important that this service not only tries to fulfil its duty to be fast, fair and impartial but 
also that it applies a consistent approach. In this instance the Investigator has chosen to see 
the contract as being for nineteen items (as Ive described) and to treat them equally. I 
consider this to be fair. Furthermore I think it fair that Miss L pays for the goods and services 
she did receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. 
The total price was £1,700 (including the deposit Miss L paid). This divided by the nineteen 
equal parts of the contract means the value of each element is £89.47. Miss L has confirmed 
what she did and didnt receive and Ive no persuasive reason to doubt her comments on 
this. Etika has said there is no evidence to support Miss Ls assertion that she returned 
some of the products. But I have no reason to consider Miss Ls comments unreliable and 
there is no evidence that shes wrong in her assertion that she did return them. So I dont 
find Etikas comments on this persuasive.
I therefore feel Miss L should receive a price reduction of £1431.52 (16 x £89.47). The total 
price was £1,700 and this therefore means the total amount Miss L is liable for on this 
agreement is £268.48. So if Miss L has paid more than this (including her deposit) Etika 
should refund this amount to her. It should add 8% from the point when her payments 
cleared the amount she was liable for until it settles this case.
Miss L has said that the treatment affected her skin negatively. This service has asked Miss 
L to provide any medical evidence to support what she says, and she has provided a 
photograph of her skin, but no medical evidence to support what she has said.
The Consumer Rights Act states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory quality. It also 
says services must be provided with reasonable skill and care. It is clear Miss L received 
both goods and services here in relation to her skin. It is also clear that Miss L had two 
treatments before when she says her skin was damaged. She says the photo shes provided 
shows the damage, although I cannot discern any obvious or substantial damage. 
Furthermore Ive not seen any evidence showing her skin prior to the treatment in the area 
she says was impacted. And its clear she took the treatments and products in order to 
improve her skin. So without medical evidence to the contrary I dont think I can say Etika 
has treated Miss L unfairly on this issue. I should add for clarity that even if Miss Ls 
arguments had been made out here this service cannot award for loss of amenity. So if she 
feels she has suffered such a loss then she should get independent medical evidence of it 
and take independent legal advice on that specific matter.
In short, Ive considered everything that Miss L has said. I appreciate how Miss L feels about 
the whole situation. I think Etikas decision to acknowledge the breach of contract and offer a 
financial solution is broadly fair. And on balance Im not persuaded that the goods supplied 
were of an unsatisfactory quality or that the services provided were not carried out without 
reasonable skill and care. But Im not persuaded by Etikas position on Miss L returning 
some of the products. So I think that should be considered in the methodology to redress the 
matter. Accordingly I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
Miss L is liable for a total of £268.48 under this agreement. So if Miss L has paid more than 
this (including her deposit) I direct Etika to refund her overpayment amount to her. It should 
add 8% from the point when her payments cleared the amount she was liable for until it 
settles this case. 
If Miss Ls payments (including the deposit paid) are less than this amount I direct Etika to 
write to her explaining the outstanding amount and to agree a repayment plan.
Etika should remove any adverse reporting in relation to this agreement from the point where 
she complained.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Etika 
Finance UK Limited.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman