DRN-3540522
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has handled a claim
made on his travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include its claim handlers and costs containment agents. And
although Mr W is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout as he is
the policyholder who had a contract of insurance with URV.
What happened
Mr W had the benefit of a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, which he
took out in around August 2019 (the policy).
In November 2019, whilst abroad in the USA, Mr W was admitted to hospital and received
medical treatment. He remained in hospital for a number of days. The medical facility 
invoiced Mr W for the medical care he received in the sum of just over $38,000 (the 
invoice). Mr W subsequently made a claim on the policy to cover those medical costs.
URV didnt pay the invoiced amount in full. It only paid around $15,074, leaving just over
$23,0000 outstanding (the outstanding amount).
Mr W was then chased for the outstanding amount by debt collectors instructed on
behalf of the medical facility (the debt collectors). Mr W is unhappy that URV hasnt settled
the outstanding amount.
Its URVs position that the amounts Mr W has been charged for the medical care he
received are excessive and it says its made a reasonable payment to the medical facility.
URV hasnt made any further offers to pay the outstanding amount. However, its more
recently said that it understood that receiving communications from debt collectors can be
worrying and stressful. It advised Mr W to ignore any calls he receives from debt collectors
and to forward any letters he receives chasing payment of the outstanding amount straight to
URV. URV also said that its willing to appoint a lawyer to represent Mr W with the aim of
stopping further correspondence and pay Mr W £400 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hes experienced to date.
Although Mr W has said hes willing to accept the compensation offer to reflect the distress
and inconvenience experienced as a result of being chased for payment of the outstanding
amount, hed like URV to pay the outstanding amount in full. He says he would like to feel
settled in his remaining years without the worry and anxiety of the outstanding debt over his
head, which has been ongoing for over two years.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She didnt think
URV had acted fairly or reasonably by paying part of the invoice for the care Mr W received
whilst in the USA. She recommended URV pay $19,214.71 to the medical facility. That
represented 90% of the outstanding amount, taking into account a 10% discount offered by
the debt collectors. She also agreed that the offer made by URV in the sum of £400 for the
distress and inconvenience it had caused him was fair and reasonable.
URV didnt agree. Its provided an extract of the American hospital directory which compiles
hospitals own data on its average charges, costs and payments. It says this shows that, on
average, the medical facility charged around $77,000 for the treatment in 2019. Whereas, on
average, the treatment cost them around $13,000 and they were paid an average sum of
around $9,000 for each treatment. Its also said that the average length of stay was almost
six days whereas Mr W was in hospital for less than this.
URV says this supports that its paid a reasonable amount for the medical costs. Its also
said that the medical facility has suspended all collection activity through the debt collectors
because of action brought by URV on behalf of other customers. And the medical facility
recognises its liable for damages because of the way in which debt collectors correspond
with URVs customers.
The debt collectors have recently confirmed to our Service that the medical facilitys offer to
discount 10% of the outstanding amount in full and final settlement of the invoice no longer
stands, given the time its taken to settle the invoice in full.
Mr Ws complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in March 2022 explaining in more detail why I was also intending to the 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:

As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr W against losses
covered by the policy as and when the amount of his losses has been established (in this
case, the amount of Mr Ws liability to the medical facility). That may be by agreement, by
court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being able to take
over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mr Ws name.
The policy terms allow for URV to take over and deal with in your name the
defence/settlement of any claim made under the policy. But Im satisfied that isnt an
unqualified right and URV still need to act fairly and reasonably when exercising that term.
As our investigator acknowledged in her view to the parties dated 17 November 2021,
legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr Ws, URV has a responsibility to
act in good faith when it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim - having regard to
Mr Ws interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily
in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the invoice. And when deciding
whether - and how - to defend possible legal action against Mr W, URV is required to base
its decisions on the circumstances of his individual case.
Im satisfied that our investigator also set out the relevant rules and regulations relevant to
this complaint in her view.
The relevant rules, regulations and industry guidance
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly. And Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself
and its customers and between a customer and another client.ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must:
-handle claims promptly and fairly
-provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress
-not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy)
-settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly.
The RPPD makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions,
on the customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time
of the claim. This was for insurers - and their agents - to engage diligently with medical
facilities (and their respective agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively
seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging in
negotiation.
Ill now consider what all this means in Mr Ws particular complaint.
The amount paid by URV
URV hasnt said Mr W shouldnt have been charged for treatment  or that the invoice
shouldnt be paid at all. And although it had initially said that Mr W failed to disclose all of his
pre-existing medical conditions prior to taking out the policy, URV hasnt sought to
proportionately settle the claim because he subsequently agreed to pay the recalculated
premium for the policy. As such, Im satisfied that URV has ultimately accepted liability for Mr
Ws treatment and sums properly due under the policy.
The policy does provide cover for emergency medical attention. It covers customary and
reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency medical expenses up to
three million pounds.
URVs position is that that the amounts charged by the medical facility are inflated and
unreasonably excessive. It says its paid reasonable fees for the medical care Mr W received
and its sought to rely on information from several sources in support of its position.
URV says the Congress guidelines set out the suggested rates of payment for medical
procedures and treatment (the Congress rates). And that the amounts charged by the
medical facility are considerably higher than the Congress rates for the medical care and
treatment Mr W received. The Congress guidelines are issued annually by the USA 
government and I understand that the Congress rates apply to certain USA residents, who 
qualify for Medicare. URV says it uses Congress rates as a benchmark when deciding 
whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It says it then pays a certain percentage 
above this, which its disclosed to our Service.
On 5 January 2022, our investigator asked URV to provide our Service with the Congress
rates relied on (applicable to November 2019) for each item charged by the medical facility
in the invoice.
URV replied on 10 January 2022 to say that for inpatient cases, as in this case, there are noindividual codes for each service; the coding used is for the entire admission. Its relied on a
document entitled inpatient prospective payment (IPPS) payment result which sets out the
calculation. And although the charges are imputed as $38,098.53  which is the amount of
the invoice - taking into account other weighting thats shown on the calculation has resulted
in a much lower figure being generated. And URV has agreed to pay a certain percentage
on top of that figure.
Having looked at the calculation and the various weighting, acronyms and abbreviations, I
cant understand all of the factors that have been taken into account when significantly
reducing the total payment. And Ive not been provided anything to cross refer the
calculation to. I understand that the calculation is based on the Congress rates which help
determine the appropriate Medicare/Medicaid rates to be charged.
However, I havent been shown anything to convince me that the Congress rates applied in
this case establish a valid benchmark for the fair market value of services provided outside
the US Medicare/Medicaid systems to which they relate. So, Im not persuaded that for this
reason alone the invoice is unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might reasonably
be charged for non-American residents who dont have Medicare.
Ive also taken into account the average amount charged by the medical facility for ailments
Mr W was treated for in 2019, as put forward by URV, against the average cost to the
medical facility for such treatment. And on that basis, I accept that the average payment
received is much lower - at just over $9,000 per patient.
But Im conscious that Mr Ws policy isnt a medical insurance policy akin to the type of
policies that can be taken out in the USA to cover medical care and treatment for people
who reside there; its a travel insurance policy. Further, Mr W isnt a USA citizen entitled to
Medicare and I understand this report relates to those patients whose medical costs have
been covered by Medicare.
In this case, the issue isnt what losses the average hospital makes when it treats a patient
on Medicare, nor how much URV considers to be an appropriate profit margin, but how
much a facility of the quality and location where Mr W received treatment could be expected
to charge privately funded/insured patients for his treatment. Im not persuaded this report
sheds any light on that issue. So, whilst Ive taken it into account, Ive placed less weight on
its contents.
Further, and in the alternative, even if the various sources advanced by URV in support of its
position do support its decision to not pay the outstanding amount, Im not satisfied URV has
acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which its taken over the handling of Mr Ws claim.
Ill explain further below.
URVs handling of Mr Ws claim
As set out above, the policy does allow URV taking over, and dealing with, the defence
and/or settlement of any claim made under the policy in Mr Ws name. However, as Ive
explained, it must do so having due regard to the law and relevant rules and regulations.
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required to act with due skill,
care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr Ws interests and treating him fairly. URV must
also manage any conflicts of interest between itself and its customers fairly. I dont think its
done that here.
I appreciate that the amount of the outstanding balance in dispute here isnt insignificant. I
can understand why URV would seek to challenge it and why its in its commercial interests
to do so. However, URV took the unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoice. It didntdiscuss its approach with Mr W before doing so.
In an email to our Service dated 3 March 2021, URV has said in areas with high-volumes of
tourism in the USA, bill inflation is virtually standard practice with charges raised far in
excess of the actual cost of providing the service, regularly by 500% and sometimes even
more. And that most facilities accept the fees paid by URV (based on their approach to pay a
certain percentage above the Congress rates for medical costs incurred by a policyholder).
That might be URVs position about the way in which the market works but URV should also
consider the individual issues of each specific case according to their own facts and having
regard to the interests of the policyholder as well as its own. I dont think its done that here
especially as the debt collectors have indicated many times that it was prepared to negotiate
the outstanding amount on behalf of the medical facility.
Negotiations with the debt collectors
The debt collectors emailed URV many times in July and August 2020 setting out the
outstanding amount, after URVs unilateral part-payment of the invoice. It said that
settlement of around 38% of the invoice wasnt enough to close the account. It also said that
URV didnt have a contract with the medical facility to allow the invoice to be paid at a
discounted rate, nor were any agreements in place with the debt collectors to pay the invoice
at a discounted rate. URV was made aware that the medical facility allowed a discount to
non-contracted insurers based on the promptness of payment ranging from 20% to 30% and
that it was open to discuss settlement.
URV didnt reply and on 24 August 2020, the debt collector emailed URV offering a 10%
discount. That offer was repeated several times in September 2020 but URV didnt reply until
22 September 2020 to say it had paid more than the Congress rates for the medical care
Mr W received. And it substantially disputed that there was anything further to pay.
The debt collectors replied saying that URVs email didnt make anything clearer, nor did it
address the issues raised and the account hadnt been settled. It again offered a 10%
discount. The debt collectors followed this up with further chaser emails in September,
October and December 2020. It only received a reply form URV on 16 December 2020 to
say it wouldnt be making any further payment and would be instructing a barrister to defend
any action taken against Mr W.
The debt collectors replied to say that it would welcome discussing the matter with URVs
barrister. It said if we do not receive a signed document from you that you accept full
financial responsibility for the bill, we have no option but to bill the patient for the balance as
the patient is the one who signed the financial responsibility at the hospital It again
offered to settle the invoice for a lower amount and reiterated that it was open to discuss
settlement.
URV replied on 12 January 2021 to say the debt was substantially disputed and that it would
pay any debt established, not Mr W.
The debt collectors sent further emails offering to settle the invoice for a lower amount and
reiterating that it was open to discuss settlement in January and February 2021.
By the middle of February 2021, the debt collectors had sent around 20 emails within a
period of six months either offering to negotiate or offering a lower figure to settle the
outstanding amount.
URV didnt reply until 22 February 2021. It said:We are willing to enter into negotiation but plainly that does not mean doing nothing
more than accepting a standard discount on an unjustifiable original charge.
We know, and your clients know, what is a federally approved rate for the services
performed. Our payment reflects that sum with no less than a []% uplift.
We believe that is a reasonable sum and can see no obvious reason why it would be
considered otherwise.
Now it is your turn to explain why a bill that exceeds that rate by multiples should be
considered. We would need to understand what factors could justify any uplift, and
how it has been calculated.
The debt collectors replied on 16 March 2021 to say it was still awaiting URVs offer to settle
the outstanding amount and: it cannot be settled for something ridiculous like 20% of what
you previously paid. That is not negotiation, as you know from multiple other cases that this
will not be accepted. I await your offer with interest.
URV replied on 9 July 2020 requesting evidence to justify the amount charged by the
medical facility. After which discussions reached an impasse when the debt collectors
replied on 11 August 20211 to say:
Why are you asking for something that no other insurer in the world asks for? This
appears to be yet another delaying tactic from your side.
Instead other insurers simply get on with paying their customers bills at a rate where
the hospital can consider the bill to be settled accordingly, or they will negotiate to
find a mutual agreement [URV] fail entirely to do this, on every single case.
The debt collector then went on to say that the medical facilitys charges are published
online, and Medicare rates are irrelevant to international parties.
Discussions then reached an impasse with neither party altering its position.
Looking at the communications between URV and the debt collectors, I dont think URVs
handling of those discussions were in line with treating Mr W  as its customer  fairly.
I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to the
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives, and advance arguments
addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the medical facility to accept
the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
Im satisfied thats good industry practice and it didnt happen here. URV has simply stated 
and paid - a sum it says is reasonable, relying on the Congress rates which are applicable to
USA residents who have the benefit of Medicare. It then proceeded to reiterate the same
points. In doing so, it effectively, failed to engage in meaningful negotiation in the spirit of
reaching a compromise on the outstanding amount. If it had, based on the tone of the debt
collectors emails, I think its likely it wouldve brought about a prompt conclusion of the
dispute. Theres nothing to suggest that the medical facility/debt collectors wouldnt have
conducted negotiations in good faith.
Im also satisfied that URVs failure to explore meaningful negotiation in this case isnt based
on any detailed representations to the medical facility and/or the debt collectors. Nor has it
relied on any specific features of Mr Ws claim. Its a reflection of a general policy to pay themedical facility a certain percentage above the Congress rates for the medical care and
treatment Mr W received in the USA. Thats resulted in Mr W being pursued by debt
collectors. And the issue of the outstanding amount is unlikely to be resolved until Mr W is
either sued over the outstanding amount or the healthcare provider stops pursuing the
outstanding amount and writes it off as a bad debt.
URV has a duty to fairly manage any conflicts between its own interests and those of
Mr W. I dont think its had due regard to Mr Ws interests here; its unreasonably put its own
commercial interests above Mr Ws interests as someone who has paid for travel cover and
made a proper claim under it.
I think its also relevant that a consumer  such as Mr W - who takes out travel insurance to
cover medical treatment abroad doesnt expect to be exposed, without a very good reason,
to continuing action from debt collectors many months after visiting an overseas medical
facility when theyve acted in accordance with the terms of the policy and paid the relevant
excess, as is the case here.
The debt collector
In response to our investigators view, on 30 November 2021, URV told our Service that the
medical facility had suspended all collection activity through the debt collectors because of
action bought by URV on behalf of customers. And that the medical facility recognises that
the debt collectors are acting illegally in the way in it corresponds with its policyholders in the
US state where the medical facility is based. As such, URV says Mr W wont hear from the
debt collectors again.
On 10 January 2022, our investigator asked for documentary evidence of this. And on 15
February 2022, URV provided a draft claim form to be filed at Court in the USA against the
debt collectors, which it says was sent to the debt collectors in September 2021. However, it
accepts that the debt collectors havent responded to that correspondence. And I havent
seen anything to confirm that the debt collectors have agreed it wont chase Mr W and/or
URV for payment of the outstanding amount  or have been prohibited in any way from
doing so. And, importantly, I havent seen anything to confirm that the medical facility has
agreed to write off the outstanding amount, it has previously been arguing is still owed.
Indeed, the debt collectors has recently confirmed to our Service that the outstanding
balance remains unpaid and the 10% discount it had been offering is no longer available
given the length of time that has passed since the medical costs were incurred.
Mr W has confirmed that he hasnt received any communications directly from the debt
collector for some time. Although, he might not have the worry of being contacted by the
debt collector and the inconvenience of having to forward those communications onto URV,
he still has the worry of the issue of the outstanding amount remaining unresolved. Theres
also the possibility that the medical facility could commence legal action against him, even
though URV has said that Mr W wont be liable for any further costs to be paid arising out of
his medical treatment.

I then explained why I was intending to direct URV to put things rights by paying:
A. the outstanding amount to the medical facility; and
B. £400 to Mr W as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Response to provisional decisionMr W replied clarifying how long he was in hospital for, the tests he underwent and treatment 
he received whilst in the hospital and the aftercare he received in the rented villa. He also 
raised other points including:
-costs wouldve been lower had an earlier settlement been sought and URV had 
entered into negotiations about the medical facilitys costs.
-hes had over two years of worry and uncertainty when he was covered for £3 million 
of medical expenses under the policy.
-hes spent countless days and hours dealing with URVs non-payment of the 
invoices.
-the treatment he received whilst in the USA was excellent and undoubtedly saved his 
life.
-Hed like the outstanding invoices to be settled.
URV also replied on 13 April 2022. In summary it said:
-The medical facility is in discussions with URV to resolve all disputed claims, 
including Mr Ws. 
-I should allow it time to complete those discussions before directing URV to pay the 
outstanding amount to the medical facility as it may impact its wider negotiations.
On 25 April 2022, our investigator wrote to URV to confirm that I wouldnt issue any decision 
within 28 days.  However, it was explained that unless Id been notified that costs had been 
agreed in this case  or unless I received any further comments from URV to consider about 
this particular case - by 4pm on 23 May 2022, Id assume that URV had no further 
information to provide in response to my provisional decision. And Id reconsider everything 
on file before issuing a decision. 
URVs provided no further information specific to this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
URV has provided an email which confirms that no account freeze had occurred to date. But 
it says the medical facility has agreed to a 30-day freeze of all accounts identified by URV 
once URV has confirmed that theyre ready to commence in-depth negotiations of all 
accounts. Ive received no further update in relation to this particular case  or further 
comments  from URV by 23 May 2022.
As explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that there has been every opportunity 
for URV to engage in-depth negotiations with the medical facility and/or debt collectors about 
the outstanding amount in this particular case, over a number of months. But it didnt do so. 
Ive received nothing further from URV to confirm that it has been able to successfully 
negotiate a settlement of the outstanding amount. Or that it has now entered meaningful 
negotiation. 
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required by the Principles 
(set out in my provisional decision) to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due 
regard to Mr Ws interests and treating him fairly. And it must also manage fairly any conflicts 
of interest between itself and its customers and as between its customers.  I remain satisfied 
it hasnt done that here. I dont think its had due regard to Mr Ws interests; its unreasonably put its own commercial interests above his interests as someone who has paid for travel 
cover and made a proper claim under it. 
Given the amount of time the outstanding amount has been unpaid for, URVs failure to 
enter into meaningful negotiation about the outstanding amount and Mr Ws personal 
circumstances and the continuing worry this is all having on him,  I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to delay matters further on the basis that URV has said that it would be 
willing to enter into in-depth negotiations with the medical facility relating to a number of 
outstanding accounts relating to treatment provided to policyholders. 
So for the reasons set out above, and as set out in detail in my provisional decision (an 
extract of which appears in the background section of, this, my final decision), I dont think 
URV has acted fairly in the way it has handled Mr Ws claim. And I uphold his complaint. 
Putting things right
Payment of the outstanding balance
As the invoice hasnt been agreed or adjudicated on, Im satisfied that there isnt an
ascertained legal liability on Mr W to pay the outstanding amount to the medical facility. So
URVs duty to indemnify him by paying the outstanding amount hasnt yet crystallised. 
But in this particular case, and for reasons already mentioned, Im persuaded its fair and 
reasonable for URV to make a further payment to the medical facility to the value of the 
outstanding amount to settle the invoice without further delay. 
I dont think URV has acted fairly by paying the amount it has to settle the invoice and the 
way it subsequently dealt with the issue of the outstanding amount with the medical facility 
and/or its debt collectors.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may now be possible for URV to
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the medical provider and potentially agree
a lessor amount. However, URV has had over two years to do this, and hasnt done so
already.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive considered the impact this all has had on Mr W in light of my findings that URV hasnt
acted fairly or reasonably by the approach its taken when looking to settle the invoice. And
Im pleased that URV has acknowledged that receiving debt collection letters can be
worrying and stressful. However, I also think Mr W would be worried about the possibility of
being faced with legal proceedings in the USA if the outstanding balance isnt settled 
which, given his age, is particularly distressing for him.
Even though URV has sought to reassure Mr W that he wont personally be liable for the
outstanding amount  for example in its communication with Mr W dated 15 January 2020 
I think its reasonable that Mr W would still be worried about being chased for the payment
even though URV invited him to forward all communications received from the medical
facility or debt collectors directly to it (and to not respond).
So, Im satisfied URV has put Mr W to a considerable and unnecessary amount of distress, 
inconvenience and worry by initially being chased for the outstanding amounts, the length of 
the process and there being no end date in sight for it being resolved.All in all, I remain satisfied compensation in the sum £400 fairly reflects what hes been 
through because of what URV did wrong here.
Summary
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell URV that Mr W accepts this final decision, I
direct it to pay:
A. the outstanding amount to the medical facility (if it hasnt already successfully 
negotiated a settlement of the outstanding amount with/on behalf of the medical 
facility by the date of this final decision); and
B. £400 to Mr W as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman