DRN-2916630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about their mortgage with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as Engage 
Credit. Theyve been in arrears for some time and say that Pepper has unfairly added fees 
and interest to their balance which means the extra payments they are now making are not 
reducing the arrears. They also say that Pepper hasnt treated them fairly now theyve been 
affected by the coronavirus pandemic.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have an interest only mortgage which is now with Pepper. Theyve been in 
arrears for some time and there have been court proceedings in the past. The most recent 
proceedings were resolved when Mr and Mrs W agreed to pay £200 per month, in addition 
to the contractual monthly payments, to reduce the arrears balance.
Mr and Mrs W saw from their statements that, although they were paying the extra £200 per 
month, their arrears were not reducing by that amount each month, so they complained.
Pepper said that the balance of the mortgage had increased over the years because of fees, 
charges and interest on missed payments. The contractual monthly payment wasnt enough 
to cover all the interest charged each month, including interest on the additional fees and 
missed payments. So part of the £200  around £50  was used to cover the additional 
interest, and part used to reduce the arrears. Each month as the arrears balance reduced, 
the additional interest charged reduced, and more of the payment was available to reduce 
the arrears.
Mr and Mrs W say they agreed in court to pay £200 to clear the arrears. Its not fair that 
Pepper has hidden charges that stop them getting the mortgage back on track and risk 
forcing them back into possession proceedings. 
When the coronavirus pandemic hit, Mr and Mrs W took a six month payment deferral. When 
the six months was up, they asked Pepper for a further deferral. Pepper said that six months 
was the maximum it could offer. It said that because of the history of the account and the 
amount of outstanding arrears, it couldnt agree a further nil payment arrangement as that 
would lead to the arrears going up again. It said it would look to see what other options it 
could offer Mr and Mrs W  but would need to carry out a review of their finances to 
understand their current circumstances to see what was appropriate. 
Our investigator thought that Pepper had acted fairly in relation to the interest charged and 
the allocation of the payments Mr and Mrs W had made. And she thought it was fair that it 
wanted to look at their circumstances after the payment deferral to see what  if any  
further assistance it could provide. But she thought that a phone call to Mr W hadnt been 
handled well; Mr and Mrs W had asked not to be called, and Peppers adviser hadnt been 
helpful in discussing the options available. She said Pepper should pay £50 compensation 
for the distress caused. 
Pepper accepted that. But Mr and Mrs W didnt. So the case comes to me for a final decision 
to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear from Mr W that Mrs W has been unwell for many years, and that this has 
contributed to their financial difficulties. And I can see that Pepper has been aware of this for 
some time, and has taken it into account in how it deals with them.
As another ombudsman explained in another complaint Mr and Mrs W brought about their 
mortgage, ultimately Mr and Mrs W do need to find a way to pay their mortgage  and, if 
they dont, Pepper is entitled to take further action. This includes, as a last resort, 
possession proceedings.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage is in part paid by state benefits, and theyve been paying the rest 
themselves, plus a contribution to the arrears as agreed most recently in the court 
proceedings in late 2019.
These werent the first proceedings, and the mortgage has been in arrears for at least ten 
years  at one point being the equivalent of almost four years payments behind. Such large 
arrears mean that the balance is a lot higher than it would otherwise be  since the missed 
interest payments are added to the overall outstanding balance. And this means more 
interest is charged overall. In addition, the legal proceedings and arrears management over 
the years have meant that fees have been added to the balance too, and they attract interest 
as well.
The contractual monthly payment is set based on interest on the original amount borrowed. 
But the balance is now higher than that  which means the monthly payment on its own isnt 
enough to cover the interest charged each month. Interest is charged not just on the original 
balance, but also on the arrears and charges. So although Mr and Mrs W were paying an 
extra £200 a month for a time, part of that went to cover the extra interest and what was left 
went to the arrears. And this was why the arrears were only reducing by around £150 per 
month.
Im satisfied that Pepper hasnt charged Mr and Mrs W incorrectly, or hidden any fees or 
charges. That they are in this position is simply the result of having been in arrears for ten 
years, and Ive seen no evidence that Pepper has treated them unfairly in how it allocated 
the payments theyd made.
In 2020, because of the covid-19 pandemic, Pepper followed the regulators guidance to give 
payment deferrals to borrowers whose income had been impacted by the pandemic. And 
even though Mr and Mrs W werent working and were reliant on benefits even before the 
pandemic, it gave them a six month deferral.
A payment deferral isnt treated as arrears. But the missed payments are added to the 
balance and will still need to made up  and interest is charged on them in the meantime. 
Six months is the maximum allowed under the regulators rules. Beyond that, Mr and Mrs W 
werent entitled to a further payment deferral. So there was nothing unfair in Peppers refusal 
to grant a further deferral.
Mr W asked for tailored support. This is the term the regulator has used to describe what 
should happen after payment deferrals  and means that lenders should look at individual 
borrowers circumstances and see what, if anything, further can be done to support them.
Pepper has explained that it can consider allowing a period of paying interest only  which 
wouldnt make any difference here; this is already an interest only mortgage.Or it could consider a reduced payment arrangement, whereby it accepts lower payments or 
no payments for a time. This would be treated as arrears, and would be temporary.
In order to see whether anything further could be done, Pepper would need to look at Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances  including their finances.
Mr and Mrs W completed an income and expenditure form, which showed that they could 
afford to maintain the mortgage payments  and even doing so, had a surplus of around £90 
per month.
Given that the mortgage was in substantial arrears, and had been to court several times, and 
given that the balance had increased further due to the six months deferral, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Pepper to conclude that it wasnt prepared to offer a further 
concession of reduced or nil payments, since this would result in the arrears increasing 
further.
Mr and Mrs W will need to stay in touch with Pepper, keep it updated with their 
circumstances, and do what they can to maintain the payments and try to bring the arrears 
down. Pepper has an ongoing obligation to treat them fairly, and should give fair 
consideration to any proposals they make  but its unlikely to be in anyones interests for 
the arrears to continue to build up indefinitely, since that increases the mortgage balance 
and will make things more difficult for Mr and Mrs W at the end of their interest only term.
  
Putting things right
Pepper accepted our investigators recommendation that it pay £50 compensation for how 
one call, at the end of the payment deferral, was handled. I think thats fair, and I dont 
require Pepper to take further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Pepper 
(UK) Limited trading as Engage Credit to pay Mr and Mrs W £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman