DRN-2070675
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc wont provide him with compensation following the IT
issues he had with his account. Hes also complained about a returned item fee he incurred
as a result of these issues.
What happened
Mr R says hes experienced issues with his online payments as a result of the IT glitch TSB
experienced in 2018. Mr R previously complained to TSB about this and in November 2018,
they paid £150 in order to resolve his complaint. Mr R was happy with this outcome, so our
investigator said hed be looking at the events that happened from this point onwards.
Mr R says he had an existing standing order of £105 which was due on 1 November 2018. It
seems there was some confusion as to whether this payment was made so he contacted the
bank to see if it could push the standing order through. The bank then made a payment of
£105 manually. However, when the standing order was attempted to be paid, Mr R incurred
an unpaid item fee of £10. In order to resolve the complaint, he would like this fee to be
refunded.
Mr R told us he experienced a further IT issue again in March 2019 as he was unable to use
his mobile app and this affected his ability to make payments. In order to resolve this part of
his complaint, Mr R would like compensation of £200.
Our investigator looked at Mr Rs statements which showed he was able to make payments
successfully from his account. Because of this, he didnt think any compensation was due. 
Our investigator couldnt see Mr R had incurred the return item fee for the payment he made
on 1 November 2018. He asked Mr R for evidence of the fee but didnt receive this so he
didnt ask TSB to do anything further to resolve the complaint.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators findings. He said he didnt receive a response from TSB
about his complaint which shows he experienced poor customer service. And he re-iterated
that he continued to have IT issues after his complaint in November 2018 which he should
be compensated for.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 July 2020. An extract of that decision is set out below.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached a different outcome to the
investigator, and Ill explain why.
system issues
Mr R has said in March 2019 he wasnt able to make a payment online or view his direct
debits and this lasted approximately four weeks. He provided a screenshot which shows the
error message he received when accessing his account. I dont doubt Mr R has experienced
some issues and I appreciate this mustve been frustrating for him.
Mr R has said he would like £200 to reflect the trouble and upset that hes experienced.
Hes explained at least once a week he makes transfers to his family who live abroad. Whilst
he was experiencing the IT issues, he had to inform his family he couldnt make these
payments and he incurred phone costs as a result of having to make these calls. He said he
had to take time off work to make the payments to his family in other ways.
Mr R also added his family members benefits are paid into his TSB account which left him in
an awkward position, particularly as this family member has mental health concerns. He had
to ask his partner to make payments to his family members account and withdraw cash.
Mr R also said had to tell his landlord he couldnt make a payment on time which was a
stressful situation to be in.
I do of course appreciate how inconvenient this would have been for Mr R to be unable to
pass on his family members benefit, particularly due to his personal circumstances and that
he had to get in touch with his landlord. It must have been frustrating that he couldnt make a
payment abroad  although Im pleased to hear Mr R was able to find an alternative way to
do this.
Having looked at Mr Rs account statements for March, I can see there are regular faster
payments paid out of his account. In fact, either every day or about every three days in
March Mr R makes faster payments from his account.
As he was able to make these payments successfully, this shows me that he was able to
complete transactions on his account. As such, whilst he may have experienced some
issues, based on the frequency of his transactions Im satisfied Mr R was able to access his
funds on most days. So, I cant agree that the IT issues had an impact on the way in which
he could use his account. For this reason I wont be asking TSB to make a payment to Mr R.
returned item fee
I should explain that this particular issue was not addressed in the previous complaint TSB
dealt with in 2018 which is why its being considered now.
There is no dispute that the standing order was due to be paid on 1 November 2018 and that
it was presented for payment on this date. TSB have explained that Mr Rs standing order
was processed overnight on the day it was due but there werent sufficient funds in his
account for it to be paid. Mr Rs statements suggest he had a balance of £0.03 on 31
October 2018 so when the standing order was attempted there wasnt enough money in his
account.
Ive seen internal screenshots provided by TSB which shows the first credit Mr R made into
his account was for £230 but this payment was made at 6.10am on 1 November 2018, after
the first time in which the standing order was attempted to be paid.
Having looked at Mr Rs statements on 1 November 2018, I can see various credits and
debits were made to the account by faster payments from 6.10am onwards. There were
enough funds in the account when Mr R telephoned TSB to arrange for the payment of £105
to be made manually (by faster payment). However, when the standing order was presented
for payment automatically there werent sufficient funds in his account.
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr R and TSB. Whilst its difficult to understand what
was said in places, I have noted Mr R explained to TSB his standing order hadnt left his
account, so he wanted to make the payment manually.
Mr R said in his complaint correspondence he forced the standing order through, but thisisnt possible. I think there may have been some confusion around this. Its possible Mr R
thought because hed made this payment manually, his standing order wouldnt be
presented. But the advisor followed Mr Rs request to make the payment manually so I dont
think TSB have done anything wrong here.
TSB wrote to Mr R the following day (on 2 November 2018) to explain it hadnt been able to
meet the standing order and they notified him hed be charged a returned item fee of £10.
The account statements show the returned item fee of £10 debited Mr Rs account on 2
January 2019.
Mr R has said on TSBs website it says if the payment cannot be made at the point its
requested, they will make the payment again after 2.30pm to allow the account holder to
place sufficient funds in the account. He says he did this but was still charged.
TSBs terms and conditions state that they will attempt the standing order four times and if
its still not successful on the last attempt theyll charge a fee of £10. But Mr R didnt have
sufficient funds in his account when the payment was attempted which is why the standing
order was unsuccessful. However, at the point he made the manual payment he did have
enough money in his account which is why this payment was successful.
customer service
Mr R is unhappy about the customer service he received, in particular the delays hes
experienced. TSB has said Mr R contacted them about the returned item fee in November
2018. Because this referenced the earlier complaint, it was added as a further part rather
than added as a new complaint. TSB issued a response on 7 November 2018 but this didnt
address the issue he had with his standing order.
Having looked at the evidence Mr R provided, it seems he contacted TSB again in March
2019 about the IT issues he was experiencing and also referred to the returned item fee. As
he didnt receive a response, he seems to have chased TSB in August 2019. TSB have said
it was only at this point that this was added to Mr Rs complaint. They have also referred to
the high level of complaints they received at this time, so they had some customers who had
to wait longer than usual.
Unfortunately, TSB didnt provide Mr R with a response to his complaint so in September
2019 he contacted our service. TSB have said as Mr R contacted our service, his case was
removed from their queue.
Given that Mr R had been waiting some time before referring his complaint to our service
and he has chased TSB for a response, I think compensation of £50 is due.
I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr R as he feels he should receive £200 in
compensation. But for the reasons Ive explained above, the IT issues do not seem to have
impaired Mr Rs ability to use the account, so I am not awarding any compensation for that
aspect of the complaint. The compensation of £50 that I am awarding is purely for the delay
in TSB addressing Mr Rs concerns about the charge he incurred.
Although Mr R may feel this should be higher considering the delay, I dont think that the
absence of a response from TSB had a huge impact on Mr R. I say this because hes said
the IT issue lasted for four weeks, so its possible TSB may not have replied within that time
frame. However, I do think TSB could have provided a better service here. And I also
understand that Mr R wanted an answer about the £10 charge hed incurred in November
2018 and he didnt receive an explanation about why this was applied. So taking all of this
into account I think TSB should pay £50.Both TSB and Mr R accepted my provisional decision and neither party made any further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and seeing as both parties agree, my 
findings remain the same as set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
As explained in my provisional decision, I think its fair that TSB pays Mr R £50
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr R £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman