DRN-3372614
The complaint
Miss V complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited declined a claim she made under her 
employers group critical illness scheme.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Miss V joined her employers group critical illness scheme in May 2016, which provided a 
sum assured of £100,000.
In April 2020 Miss V caught Covid-19 and was hospitalised. She suffered pneumonia, 
hypoxic respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, blood clots and cracked ribs. 
Miss V also required ventilation while in hospital.
Miss V made a claim under the policy but it was declined by HSBC. They said Covid-19 
wasnt a condition covered under the policy but theyd looked at whether shed met the 
requirements of the intensive care definition. This however required mechanical ventilation 
for ten consecutive days in an intensive unit. And although Miss V received ventilation, this 
was via the continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) method rather than a mechanical 
tracheal method. HSBC also said the ventilation wasnt for ten consecutive days and that her 
hospitalisation was in the high dependency ward rather than intensive care. Because of this, 
Miss V hadnt met the intensive care definition requirements for a claim to be paid. 
Miss V complained about HSBCs decision to decline the claim. She raised various 
concerns, including:
She felt discriminated against because she considered if she had cover with a 
different provider then her claim wouldve been successful. Whereas she has been 
restricted of being covered on a completely new illness due to taking it through her 
employer. 
A completely new illness, as hers was, should be considered on a holistic approach 
given its severity as she nearly lost her life. She was ventilated in a critical care unit 
and fortunate to survive when others around her did not. 
She also has lasting damage from whats happened such as damage to her auditory 
and visual nerves, damage to her lungs and respiratory tract and weakness on the 
left-hand side of her body. Its unclear how long she will be affected by the illness. 
HSBCs position didnt change and, in short, they added:
Covid-19 isnt covered under the policy. But, if Miss V had complications caused by 
Covid-19 that led to a condition included in the cover then they can consider a claim 
for the relevant condition. In this instance, a claim for Intensive care requiring 
medical ventilation for ten consecutive days was considered but the evidence they 
received confirmed the policy definition hadnt been met in full. 
They sympathised with Miss Vs situation but they didnt think theyd discriminated 
against her as the claim had been assessed in accordance with the policy terms. And 
the cover offered through Miss Vs employer was optional to her. 
They were unable to comment on cover provided by other insurers. 
The matter was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think HSBC had unfairly 
declined the claim. In short, she said:
A report obtained by HSBC from Dr O, a treating consultant, said that Miss V wasnt 
intubated (so didnt receive mechanical ventilation by means of a tracheal intubation), 
and that she wasnt admitted to an intensive care unit. Because there was no 
mechanical ventilation by a means of tracheal intubation for ten consecutive days in 
an intensive care unit, she didnt think the definition was met.
She acknowledged Miss V had been through a very tough time and that she wanted 
her claim to be looked at holistically. But, insurers must look at the definitions of 
covered conditions carefully to ensure theyre treating all policyholders/members 
fairly. She thought HSBC had considered the claim in line with the policy terms. And 
so, she didnt think HSBC had discriminated against her. 
She noted that Miss V said a HSBC colleague initially told her that, even though she 
may not meet the specific term they would really like to help her out. Unfortunately, 
the recording of this call isnt available. But she didnt think it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to say they would try to help her. And, in essence, this is what they did by 
seeing if Miss V met the definition of a covered condition (as Covid-19 isnt).
Miss V disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Miss V that Ive given careful consideration to everything shes said 
in support of her complaint. I also dont underestimate the severity of her condition or the 
impact its had on her. But what I must consider here is whether HSBC has acted fairly by 
declining the claim. I know this isnt the outcome Miss V is hoping for but, for similar reasons 
to that of our investigator, I think they have. Ill explain why. 
The policy conditions (employee guide) set out the cover Miss V received as a member of 
the group scheme. This includes when HSBC is required to pay a claim. Miss V agreed to 
these conditions when she joined the scheme and so, I think its reasonable for HSBC to 
apply them when considering her claim. Ive therefore looked at whether theyve done so 
fairly.
The policy conditions say:
Critical Illness Cover for Me provides a tax-free lump sum benefit on diagnosis of a 
specified illness or if you undergo certain operations, and survive for 10 daysThe benefit

Only certain critical illnesses are covered and these are defined in 
Section 7.
This means only certain critical illness are covered. And, looking at the covered conditions, 
Covid-19 isnt listed. Therefore, HSBC werent required under the policy terms to pay the 
claim due to Miss V contracting Covid-19. They did however consider whether any of the 
covered conditions were applicable to her circumstances, which I think was reasonable. In 
Miss Vs case, this was Intensive care requiring medical ventilation for 10 consecutive days. 
The policy conditions define this as:
Any sickness or injury resulting in the affected person requiring continuous 
mechanical ventilation by means of tracheal intubation for 10 consecutive days (24 
hours a day) or more in an intensive care unit in a UK hospital.
For the above definition, the following is not covered:
Sickness or injury as a result of drug or alcohol intake or other self-inflicted 
means.
Im aware theres been some dispute about whether Miss V was in an intensive care unit, as 
she says the high dependency ward she was in was part of it. Miss V has also provided 
medical letters to support this. Nevertheless, all parts of the definition must be met for a 
claim to paid. And it seems to be accepted that Miss V didnt receive continuous mechanical 
ventilation by means of tracheal intubation. It follows that, while Miss Vs condition was very 
serious, she hasnt met the requirements of the above definition. Im therefore satisfied that 
HSBC declined the claim in line with the policy terms. 
I understand Miss V has said her condition should be considered holistically rather than 
simply against the specific policy terms. Miss V has explained that shes suffered permanent 
damage and complications because of her Covid-19 illness. And that the reason she didnt 
receive mechanical ventilation was because the CPAP method was expected to give a better 
treatment outcome. Furthermore, Miss V feels it is unfair for HSBC to try and fit this new 
illness into existing conditions and has referred to how HIV once wasnt a covered condition 
but is now  she considers acute Covid-19 and the severity of her illness should be taken 
into account given she nearly died from it. 
I want to again reassure Miss V that I dont doubt the severity of her condition, both in 
respect of how ill she became as well as the lasting impact its had on her. But I think it 
would be helpful for me to explain that insurance doesnt cover every eventuality, only 
specified events. And, broadly speaking, the more cover a policy provides the more it costs. 
So, if insurance covered every eventuality (such as an illness, operation or a disability) then 
it would become unaffordable. Therefore, in situations like this were no advice has been 
provided to take out the cover (as Miss V chose to join the scheme), the responsibility lies 
with the individual(s) to ensure it meets their needs. The insurer however, in this instance 
HSBC, must provide the relevant information so that an informed decision can be made. Im 
satisfied HSBC clearly set out the cover provided within the policy conditions.
I appreciate Covid-19 is a new illness and so it wouldnt have been possible for HSBC to 
have included it as a covered condition when the policy was set up (or renewed). But that doesnt mean HSBC is required to consider a claim for it. I do however think they acted 
reasonably by looking to see whether the complications caused by Covid-19 led to Miss V 
being able to claim for a condition that is covered. Unfortunately, as per above, she didnt 
meet the requirements. If, however, Miss V feels that she met the definition of any other 
covered conditions while the policy was active, she should raise this with HSBC 
Given that I consider HSBC has considered Miss Vs claim in line with the policy conditions, 
Im not persuaded theyve treated her unfairly or discriminated against her. Further, while I 
know Miss V is unhappy that HSBC told her they would try to help her when she first tried to 
claim, I dont think this was unreasonable. I think an insurer should try to assist 
policyholders/members through a claims process as theyre more familiar with it  including 
what is and isnt covered. It is however unfortunate that after considering Miss Vs claim, 
they declined it as the definition hadnt been met. 
I know Miss V has gone through a very difficult time and I realise a cash lump sum wouldve 
been extremely helpful to her. But, for the above reasons, I think HSBC has acted fairly  
and in line with the scheme conditions - by declining her critical illness claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman