DRN-4188731
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair settlement for the total loss 
of his vehicle after a claim was made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had an accident in his car, so he made a claim under his motor insurance 
policy. After assessing the damage, esure deemed the car to be a total loss.
esure valued the car at £63,006.
esure said that Mr B had misrepresented his mileage when he took out his insurance 
policy. Hed estimated his annual mileage to be 1001-2000 miles, but at the time of 
the accident hed already travelled 5,430 miles. esure said it wouldve charged a 
higher premium had it known the correct mileage and Mr B had only paid 96.18% of 
what the premium wouldve been. So it said it would settle the claim proportionately, 
bringing the total settlement to £60,597 (minus any policy excess). 
Mr B says esures valuation of his car is based on a standard model and doesnt take 
into consideration the additional extras on the car  some of which are quite rare. He 
also says that at the time of taking out the policy, he gave an accurate estimate of his 
mileage based on his circumstances at that time. He raised a complaint which he 
brought to our Service. 
Our Investigator obtained her own valuations of the car, the average of which came 
to more than what esure had offered. So she recommended the offer be increased. 
But she was persuaded that it could settle the claim proportionality based on the 
discrepancy in the mileage. 
Mr B accepted our Investigators recommendations, but esure didnt respond. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mileage deduction
In order to determine whether Mr B had misrepresented his mileage, I asked esure for 
details of the questions it asked at inception of the policy and the answers it was provided 
with. The information esure has sent us shows Mr B estimated his mileage at 3000.
esure has now acknowledged that it made an error about the answer Mr B gave regarding 
his mileage. And has agreed not to make a deduction to the claim. 
I think this is fair in the circumstances, and its what I wouldve directed esure to do.  
Market value
For clarity, its not my role to work out the exact value of Mr Bs car. What I need to decide is 
whether esure has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Mr Bs policy says that esure will pay the market value of the car, less any policy excess, in 
the event of a total loss. The policy defines the market value as 
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car 
for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, 
condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research 
from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the 
price you paid when you purchased the car.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers, our 
Service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The 
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taken into consideration including 
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can 
have a big impact on its value. We also think motor trade guides are generally more reliable 
than car adverts as asking prices in adverts tend to be inflated to allow room for downward 
negotiation.
Ive reviewed the trade guide valuations provided by esure, and Im inclined to agree with Mr 
B that these dont seem to take into account the performance exhaust and suspension he 
had on the car, which together cost around £7,000. 
This has been a difficult car to value, mainly due to the change in registration plates, and not 
all trade guides have been able to provide a valuation. So Ive had to take into account all 
the information available to determine what is a fair amount in the circumstances.
We have one valuation which includes the extras, which puts the market value at £68,000. 
This is in line with the valuations provided by Mr B that range between £67,000 and £71,000 
 although not all guides used are ones approved by our Service. Weve also found adverts 
for cars of a similar specification at £65,362 and £71,870. 
Based on this information, Ive persuaded that the one trade guide valuation we hold at 
£68,000 is in the ballpark of whats fair and reasonable. As such, I direct esure to pay this 
amount in settlement of Mr Bs claim, minus any policy excess.
Interest and compensation
Im awarding 8% simple interest per annum on the claim settlement, to recognise that Mr B 
has been without this money due to esures failure to value his car correctly at the outset. If 
esure has already paid Mr B its original offer of £60,597, then it only needs to pay interest on 
the remaining balance. Interest should be applied from 30 December 2022  which is the 
date of esures final offer  until the date the final payment is made.
Im also awarding compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B 
for having his claim settlement reduced incorrectly. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct esure Insurance Limited to:
pay £68,000 for the market value of Mr Bs car, minus any payments already made 
and the policy excess, plus 8% simple interest from 30 December 2022 to the date 
the final payment is made.
pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman