DRN-4391036
The complaint
Mr M complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr M acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from SMF. 
Mr M was required to make 54 monthly repayments of £197.82 with an option to purchase 
fee of £10. The total amount repayable under the agreement was £10,692.28. Mr M believes 
SMF failed to complete adequate affordability checks. Mr M says that if it had it wouldve 
been clear that the agreement wasnt affordable.
SMF disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate creditworthiness assessment which relied 
on the information supplied by Mr M, and the information obtained via credit reference 
agencies. It stated that Mr M had a history of four defaults, two of which were satisfied at the 
point of sale, and six credit items, five of which were up to date.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They thought SMFs 
checks werent proportionate given the defaulted accounts and that had it completed 
proportionate checks it would have likely found the agreement was unaffordable for Mr M. 
Mr M agreed, but SMF failed to provide a response. As such the complaint has been 
referred for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mr M took out his agreement 
with SMF. Its rules and guidance obliged SMF to lend responsibly. SMF needed to take 
reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether a borrower could afford to meet its 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. This was set out in 
its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's 
ability to repay the credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments without undue 
difficulty - using regular income, avoiding further borrowing to meet payments and making 
timely repayments over the life of the agreement without having to realise security or assets 
(CONC 5.3.1G (6)).
The FCA didnt specify what exact level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment. But it did say that the level of detail depended on the type of credit, the amount 
of credit being granted and the associated risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2.4G (2)).
So, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. Id expect a lender to 
seek more assurance the lower a persons income, the higher the amount of credit being 
applied for and the longer the term of the agreement. It is from this standpoint and criteria 
that Ive approached my decision.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did SMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did SMF complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Im not satisfied that SMF gathered a reasonable amount of information from Mr M about his 
expenditure prior to approving the finance. SMFs searches found that Mr M was left with 
around £279 in disposable income after factoring in his reported income of £1,200. But its 
credit check data showed that Mr M had four defaults, two of which were still being repaid. 
This demonstrated that Mr M had previously failed in his obligations on several accounts. 
And so, it would have been proportionate to ask Mr M about his actual expenditure at the 
time, to ensure that his financial situation had improved and that he could repay the loan 
sustainably.
I want to be clear that Ive considered SMFs position about the type of checks that it did 
complete. And I understand that it felt none of the searches it completed demonstrated any 
risk of financial stress. However, considering the circumstances already mentioned Im not 
satisfied that these checks adequately gathered a proportionate amount of information. SMF 
was lending Mr M a significant amount of money which required payments over four and a 
half years. Its checks failed to answer how much Mr M actually had left to spend from his 
income after existing commitments.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement and the 
information in Mr Ms credit file, I think it would have been proportionate for SMF to have 
enquired about Mr Ms specific expenditure  including costs such as food, petrol, utilities 
and housing. Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was SMF wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for his 
specific circumstances. As SMF dont appear to have sought a reasonable understanding of Mr Ms total committed 
expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before lending. SMF needed to do more in the circumstances before agreeing to lend. 
Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was, SMF wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for him. 
Im satisfied SMF didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this doesnt 
automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr M could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I cant say exactly what further questions or evidence SMF would have asked for had it 
sought to adequately verify Mr Ms committed expenditure. So, in the absence of anything 
else, Ive reviewed copies of Mr Ms bank statements in the three months leading up to the 
application as well as the existing credit file information that was available at the time.
I want to be clear that Im not suggesting SMF were required to check his bank statements 
specifically, but Im satisfied that these give me a good indication of what information it would 
have likely found out about his financial circumstances had it completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks.
These statements reveal that Mr Ms monthly income averaged at around £1,700, consisting 
of his wage, overtime payments and transfers from his partner. His average monthly 
expenditure was around £1,270. This includes credit commitments, transfers to his partner 
for bills and rent, debt management plans, food and petrol. It meant Mr M was left with 
around £460 in disposable income.
In isolation this would appear to show that the finance agreement was sustainable and 
affordable for Mr M. However, the statements also show an increasing spend on gambling  
around £200 in the first month, £625 in the second and around £770 in the month prior to the 
sale of the agreement. Mr M was spending an increasing amount on gambling transactions, 
ultimately around 45% of his guaranteed income. This meant that he was on average left 
with less than the monthly repayment amount for the agreement. Given the scale of spend 
on gambling Im satisfied this element of Mr Ms financial situation would have most likely 
been discovered had proportionate checks been completed.
Given the circumstances, proportionate checks would have shown the agreement wasnt 
affordable or sustainable for the four and a half years Mr M was expected to maintain 
payments. Whilst his income was higher than the amount declared to SMF (due to his 
overtime payments) his expenditure demonstrated that he was increasingly allocating his 
income towards gambling transactions. Prior to the sale of the agreement, he was left with 
less than the monthly repayment amount required once these transactions were factored in. 
I think this demonstrates that hed likely be unable to sustain the agreement without incurring 
financial difficulties, and I dont think SMF ought to have approved the lending on that basis.
Did SMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that SMF acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.Putting things right
As I dont think SMF ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be able 
to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr M has already settled the 
agreement without returning the vehicle to SMF, so SMF shouldnt be able to retain more 
than the original cash price of the vehicle, being £5,798.
To put things right Specialist Motor Finance Limited should:
Refund any payments Mr M has made in excess of £5,798, representing the original 
cash price of the vehicle. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding this 
agreement.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires SMF to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. SMF must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to put 
things right in the manner set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman