DRN-3878909
The complaint
Mr V feels that American Express Services Europe Limited has treated him unfairly about a 
transaction on his credit card to purchase a festive hamper.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr V bought a build your own hamper using his American Express 
Services Europe Limited (Amex for short) credit card to pay for it. The Company he bought it 
from, which Ill call Firm L, organised delivery to the agreed address. Mr V says he never 
took possession of the hamper. Mr V has supplied a photo taken on the day of delivery of his 
property accompanied by the comment to Firm L that your carrier simply left the parcel in 
front of my entrance door. Firm L said it had done everything agreed and didnt refund Mr V. 
So he took his complaint to Amex.
Amex said it considered the dispute and noted that it considered Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 but felt the necessary relationship for S75 to apply wasnt in 
place. It also noted the items listed were less than £100. It also considered chargeback and 
noted that Firm L met its obligations in regard to delivery. So it didnt think it could do 
anything more for Mr V. Unhappy with this Mr V brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator issued an assessment on the matter which found that the required Amex 
didnt have to do any more. But Mr V doesnt agree. So this complaint came to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in November 2022 stating that I was minded at 
the time that this hamper purchase didnt meet the requirements for a successful S75 claim 
and that Amex didnt do anything wrong by not continuing with the chargeback process.
Amex agreed with my provisional position. Mr V didnt and provided some comments on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Vs comments, but they fall short of persuading me to deviate from the 
position set out in my provisional decision and below. So his complaint is unsuccessful. I 
shall set out the main rationale below and then deal with Mr Vs further comments towards 
the end of this decision.
Mr V has talked about having found the whole matter very distressing. Im very sorry to hear 
this and Ive considered this carefully whilst considering all that has happened here.
I should also add that this decision is solely about Amex and how it considered Mr Ls 
dispute with Firm L. Firm L is not within my remit and I cannot decide on its behaviour. The 
test is here whether Amex treated Mr V fairly in its consideration of his dispute with Firm L. I 
would like to make this crucial distinction clear.
Mr V has made numerous detailed arguments here and Ive considered them all. However 
Ive only addressed those that are at the crux of this complaint in my view in keeping with our 
fair, reasonable, impartial, and informal remit.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out the requirements for a successful 
Section 75 claim to a creditor. This includes conditions regarding financial limits of the claim 
and that the required Debtor Creditor Supplier (DCS for short) relationship is in place. When 
considering a section 75 claim Amex has to satisfy itself that the financial limits and DCS 
conditions are met and then it needs to consider whether Firm L has breached the contract 
or misrepresented the contract. Here Amex has argued that both the financial limits and 
DCS requirements are not in place due items purchased and the presence of another party 
in the transaction. And thus it hasnt considered whether there is breach or 
misrepresentation of contract here.
Ive considered Amexs financial limits argument. I should note the legislation specifically 
says:
S 75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
(2) (not key here-its about the Supplier indemnifying the creditor)
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a) (not key here),
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
In short to make a valid claim the single item purchased must be more than £100 and less 
than £30,000 in cash price. Ive considered the order summary which refers to what Mr V 
purchased being a build your own hamper. I can see the hamper is listed as free and then 
the order summary goes on to list the items which includes differing wines (which are priced 
based on number of bottles and price per bottle to give a costing for that type of wine), 
chocolate and gift packaging. The individual costings for the items is then totalled up, 
shipping and taxes are added and then a total cost given. And this total cost is what Mr V 
paid.
Ive considered Firm Ls website and I can see how the build your own hamper process 
works, which is essentially the purchaser, such as Mr V, goes through various pages of the 
website selecting from options such as wines, charcuterie, soft drinks, and chocolate. There 
appears to be no requirements to purchase any particular item or types of item. The 
purchaser has free choice to select the items purchased. I also note that on this website you 
can buy pre-made hampers which have a set price and the individual items are not 
individually priced. Whether this option was available when Mr V shopped is unclear. But it 
would seem likely it was bearing in mind this is part of the commercial enterprise of Firm L.
Ive considered this carefully and I dont think this hamper that Mr V bought constitutes a 
single item as per the legislation quoted. In real terms I see little difference between this 
situation and going into a supermarket, picking a nice box, selecting items to go in it and 
purchasing gift paper to wrap it up in, other than Mr Vs scenario is online and the scenario I 
described would be in person.So although the total cost of what Mr V bought is over a hundred pounds to my mind it isnt a 
single item but rather a group of items, none of which are priced over a hundred pounds on 
their own.
Mr V says he bought a customized Christmas hamper. It is true it is customised, but it was 
customised by Mr V. He didnt not pay specifically for a customised service provided by Firm 
L. He purchased a selection of goods to his particular choice and taste.
The test I must apply here is whether Amex has treated Mr V unfairly in not considering his 
S75 claim due to its reliance on the financial limits requirement. And it is my provisional 
thinking that it hasnt because I dont consider what Mr V purchased to be a single item. And 
thus as this purchase doesnt meet the requirements for a valid S75 claim, Amex hasnt 
done anything wrong by not refunding him for this under S75.
Could Amex have done more under Chargeback?
Mr Vs credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes giving 
Amex an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the 
Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. And this is a mechanism for resolution of disputes 
between card holders and merchants which is decided solely on the basis of the network 
rules and the particular chargeback reasons set out in the network rules. This is in essence 
an internal process run by the network to resolve disputes. This service does consider 
raising a chargeback to be good practice if the card supplier considers the dispute has a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
Mr V doesnt dispute that he used his Amex card in this transaction. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Amex couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr V didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Amex is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed or continue at 
any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
I can see that Amex raised a chargeback and Firm L defended its position. I can see the 
chargeback reason used and Im satisfied Amex raised the chargeback as it should using 
the right chargeback reason code. I can see the defence of Firm L was that the item was 
delivered. I can see the checks performed with regard to the delivery. And I can see its 
delivery to the correct address is supported by its own records and Mr Vs comments and 
photograph showing the item on his property during the period when delivery was due. So as 
the network rules around delivery were satisfied then I can see why Amex didnt pursue the 
chargeback further. And although I can see Mr V has made many arguments about what 
constitutes delivery more broadly I must reemphasise that chargeback is a process 
governed by the network rules. And as it stands Im not persuaded that Amex has treated Mr 
V unfairly by not continuing with the chargeback process.
Mr V has made lengthy and detailed submissions often referring to certain legislation. I have 
considered them all. But unfortunately for Mr V they are not persuasive. This is because a lot 
of the arguments he seeks to bring in are made unpersuasive by the fact that as S75 doesnt 
apply due to not meeting the financial limits requirement then the only test left for me to 
consider is whether Amex treated him unfairly by not taking the chargeback further subject to 
the network rules only. And I dont think it has.I should also add that Mr V has made many arguments about Firm L. As Ive said I cannot 
decide on Firm L as it is not within my remit. I can only decide on whether Amex did what it 
should. And I note Mr V hasnt made persuasive arguments about what Amex did wrong as 
Id expect in this situation. I think the focus of Mr Vs arguments has been Firm L. And, of 
course, he retains the option of pursuing Firm L through legal processes. Mr V has alluded to 
challenging findings of this service through legal processes. He is correct that once I issue a 
final decision hell have the option of judicial review (if he doesnt accept my final decision). 
In my opinion taking legal advice is prudent before embarking on any legal action.
Mr Vs further arguments
Mr V argues that the hamper was a single item. I disagree for the reasons Ive explained. Mr 
V says he didnt know what was in the hamper. However his receipt for the sale clearly 
shows the items he selected to have in the hamper. Mr V argues what he would have done 
had he received the hamper and the items were thrown in the box without being assembled 
as a hamper. Bearing in mind the cost of the items Mr V had selected Im not persuaded he 
would have returned all these individual items as he suggests.
Mr V argues that you wouldnt build your own car or computer. I agree those are more likely 
to be considered single items. But I do not agree a hamper which is listed as build your own 
and then Mr V built his own-with a selection of very different items of his individual choosing 
and of differing natures (save that they are mainly for human consumption) is a single item.
Mr V says When I placed the order for the hamper, I did not know how the detail of the 
order I placed would be shown on the email confirmation. Therefore, the way the order is 
detailed on the email confirmation cannot be used to support the assertion that multiple 
items were bought, because it came after the order was placed. I disagree as I think a 
receipt of the items individually itemised clearly shows he selected individual items that he 
selected during the selection process. Im sure had Mr V received the hamper and it hadnt 
had some of the items in it hed have happily relied on such documentation. And ultimately 
this was only a written record of the items he selected created after hed selected those 
items at the time. Clearly Firm L created the record of what hed selected during his 
interaction with the website where he was selecting items and has kept it for its records also. 
So Mr Vs argument here falls significantly short of being persuasive to me.
As Ive said Ive considered all of Mr Vs arguments, but I dont find them persuasive for the 
reasons given. Accordingly his complaint is unsuccessful.
Summary
 
It is my decision that Mr Vs claim doesnt meet the financial limits requirements as set out in 
the Consumer Credit Act. And Im not persuaded that Amex has treated Mr V unfairly by not 
pursuing his chargeback any further. Accordingly, and for all the reasons given above it is 
my decision is that this complaint should not succeed.
Mr V is at liberty to not accept my decision and continue his dispute with Amex separately. 
But this decision brings to an end this dispute at this service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited. It has nothing further to do in this matter.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman