DRN-3460113
Complaint
Miss K has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Miss K with a loan for £300.00 in March 2020. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.3% and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £68.57 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ks complaint and she thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss K unfairly. So she didnt think that Miss Ks complaint should 
be upheld. Miss K disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 14 April 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 14 April 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold    
Miss Ks complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Miss Ks complaint. 
I went on to explain that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this meant was that L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Miss K could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I explained that L2G may have argued that the relatively low monthly payments for this loan 
meant that a light touch assessment would have been proportionate in this case. But I was 
mindful that it didnt accept Miss Ks declaration of having no monthly expenditure, as it 
thought this was implausible. Furthermore, the credit check it carried out showed Miss K had 
a number of existing defaults as well as a history of taking out payday loans. 
So I was persuaded by what Miss K had said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. And while I accepted it was possible Miss Ks credit file reflected her 
choices rather than her being in financial difficulty, I explained that my experience of these 
types of cases suggest this was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would more like 
than not have shown that Miss K wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without 
experiencing undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
This left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss K. And as L2G provided 
Miss K with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
As Miss K ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with, I set out my intention to issue a final decision which found that Miss K lost out 
because of what L2G did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
L2G confirmed receiving my provisional decision and said that it had nothing further to 
provide ahead of my final decision.
Miss K didnt provide anything further for me to think about.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Ks complaint. And as neither party 
has provided any further arguments, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im 
still upholding Miss Ks complaint. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right 
for Miss K. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss K
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Miss K by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss K made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £300 originally lent. If Miss K has 
already repaid more than £300 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss K;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss K to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ks credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-party 
debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account and 
its the case that Miss K is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman