DRN-3225456
The complaint
In summary Mrs B has complained about the difficulties she has had setting up an annuity 
with Phoenix Life Limited. Shes also concerned about how her pension policy was originally 
sold to her, including how it was set up and the investment recommendations made at that 
time. Mrs B is represented by Mr B. 
What happened
In 2019 Mrs B contacted Phoenix about purchasing an annuity with her pension. She said 
she found the process confusing and asked for clarification regarding the guaranteed annuity 
rates (GAR) that were available with the pension. 
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with the service, answers and information she received from Phoenix, 
so she complained to it. 
In its response, Phoenix agreed that Mrs B had been given inconsistent information in 
respect of taking an annuity and cashing in the remaining segments within her policy. It 
agreed to backdate the annuity start date to 12 August 2019 as it was her intention to start 
the annuity from then. This was on the basis that the forms were received within four weeks 
of its letter. It also agreed to provide a separate letter clarifying the GAR within the policy. 
Phoenix also agreed to pay £210 in respect of the inconvenience caused to her and to cover 
the cost of phone calls she had had to make. 
A few weeks later Phoenix wrote to Mrs B to explain how the GAR operated and was 
calculated. In relation to her concerns that the policy had been mis-sold, it said that a mis-
sale complaint had already been completed.  Mrs B wasnt happy with the response received 
from Phoenix, so she brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs concerns. Mrs B told him that an annuity had 
not been set up in 2019. The investigator explained that the sale and setting up of the 
pension had already been reviewed by our service in 2016 and 2017. And that a 
compensation payment had been by Phoenix in 2019. 
In relation to the setting up of the annuity, the investigator accepted that Phoenix had made 
mistakes with the information it had provided to Mrs B. To correct the errors Phoenix had 
made, he said he would expect it to back date her annuity payments to 12 August 2019 
together with interest. And he thought the offer to backdate the annuity to August 2019 was 
fair. 
In response, Mrs B explained that whilst she was pleased Phoenix had agreed to backdate 
the annuity, she remained unhappy with the recommendation made to her and / or the way 
the pension policy had been set up. 
She acknowledged that the sale and set up of the policy had been reviewed by our service in 
2017. She thought this was a mis-selling complaint regarding the transfer of an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. Phoenix had paid out on this in 2019, so she 
considered the matter of the OPS transfer to have been resolved. But she remained 
unhappy with how the GAR had been applied to the funds she had already taken and on the 
remaining funds to be taken. And she provided a selection of correspondence in support of 
her concerns. 
The investigator provided Mrs Bs response to Phoenix. It said in reply that the pension 
review loss assessment took account of the benefit that had already been paid. And it went 
on to say that any financial loss arising from the way the policies were set up would have 
been offset by a higher review redress. And the letter from 1995 had no bearing on the 
redress paid. 
The investigator then explained to Mrs B that the pension review accounted for any losses 
she may have incurred. Mrs B said she didnt think part of her complaint had been 
addressed. She asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, the case 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, there are two parts to Mrs Bs complaint. Ill deal with them separately. 
The setting up of the annuity in 2019
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that when Mrs B approached Phoenix about taking out an 
annuity, things didnt go as they should have. I say this because Phoenix accepts that she 
wasnt given accurate information in relation to her annuity and the cashing in of units from 
her pension. And it accepts that she wasnt provided with the customer service that she 
should have received. As a result of this Im also satisfied that this impacted Mrs Bs decision 
to take out the annuity. 
Phoenix has offered to backdate the annuity to 12 August 2019 if she returned the forms 
within four weeks. It has had Mrs Bs response to the investigators view where she said she 
was pleased that Phoenix had agreed to backdate her annuity. And it hasnt said that the 
offer is no longer available to Mrs B. 
I agree that the appropriate way to compensate Mrs B for the mistakes made by Phoenix, is 
for it to backdate her annuity to 12 August 2019. And I dont think its unreasonable that she 
hasnt proceeded with that annuity whilst the other outstanding concerns regarding her 
pension hadnt had a final review and adjudication by our service. I also think the payment 
by Phoenix of £210 to compensate her for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect 
information she was given, and the poor service provided; is an appropriate amount of 
compensation taking into account the impact on her of all of this. 
The sale of the pension policy, how it was set up and the investment 
recommendations made
Mrs B has also raised concerns about how the policy was originally set up and the 
investment recommendations made. The setting up of the policy is something that she 
appears to have raised concerns about over several years. And I can see that those 
concerns were considered by Phoenix and by this service.
In 2015 Mrs B complained to Phoenix about how the policy was set up. It appears at that 
time, Phoenix acknowledged she was given incorrect information. And it explained how the 
policies were set up and how the various contributions were invested.I can also see that in 2016 Phoenix responded to a complaint from Mr B made on behalf of 
Mrs B in December 2015, about concerns the policy had been mis-sold. 
In 2016 a complaint was referred to our service about how the pension had been set up. So, 
Im satisfied that the complaint about how the pension set up, was considered by both 
Phoenix and this service.
Mrs B made another complaint about the policy being mis-sold in 2017. Phoenix agreed to 
our service looking at the complaint. One of our adjudicators looked again at how the policy 
had been set up in relation to the protected rights and non-protected rights segments. It 
seems to me that assessment made by the adjudicator, was in essence the same answer 
that was provided to Mrs B in 2016. So, Im satisfied that this aspect of her complaint has 
been addressed by Phoenix and this service. And as a result, it cant be looked into again.
Mrs B also complained about the advice she received to contract out of the state earnings 
related pension scheme (SERPS), and to transfer deferred pension benefits from an OPS 
into a personal pension. Our adjudicator explained to Mrs B, that Phoenix had agreed to 
carry out a review of the advice to set up a personal pension and to transfer the deferred 
OPS benefits and contract out of SERPS. The review also covered the setting up of the 
personal pension, instead of Mrs B being advised to join her employers OPS. 
The adjudicator also explained that Phoenix appeared to have accepted that the advice to 
transfer OPS benefits was wrong. But it was also investigating the advice not to join the OPS 
and to contract out of SERPS. The letter also explained that there was a review by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regarding the methodology for calculating 
redress. The outcome of that review was expected in the Autumn of 2017. The adjudicator 
also explained that at that stage she was satisfied with what Phoenix was doing. 
In her response to our investigators assessment of this complaint, Mrs B acknowledged that 
the sale and set up of the policy had been reviewed by our service in 2017. She thought this 
was a mis-selling complaint regarding the transfer of an occupational pension to a personal 
pension. But I dont agree with that assessment. 
I say this because Im satisfied from what Ive summarised above, it was explained to Mrs B 
that the setting up of the policy and the advice not to join her OPS, would also form part of 
the review of the advice she was provided with. 
In addition, the letter from Phoenix of 23 July 2019 which enclosed the offer of settlement to 
Mrs B, explained its offer to her. It also set out the key facts and assumptions used in 
respect of the OPS she had been advised to transfer her deferred benefits from, and the 
OPS she had been advised not to join. The letter also explained the compensation that was 
being paid in respect of both of those issues. In addition, the key facts and assumptions 
section also explained that GARs on the with profits part of the policy had been taken into 
account in the calculations. 
Mrs B signed an acceptance form in respect of the offer in September 2019. The acceptance 
form explained that cash offer of compensation was in full and final settlement of any and all 
claims she may have against Phoenix or its agents in connection with or arising out of the 
sale of her pension policy numbers AF.. and EF So, Im satisfied that Mrs B would 
have been aware that by signing the acceptance form and accepting the compensation from 
Phoenix, this would be in full and final settlement of any claims she had in respect of the 
pension sold to her. And I think that this logically would also include the concerns that she 
has previously raised about how the policy was set up and the investments made. As a result, Im not persuaded that Phoenix needs to do any more in relation to the sale of 
and setting up of the personal pension.
Putting things right
 In respect of the setting up of the annuity, Phoenix needs to set up Mrs Bs annuity and pay 
her:
-The total of all the notional payments which she should have received from her annuity, if it 
had started on 12 August 2019. The payments should be net of her marginal rate of tax, 
(depending on whether she is a nil, 20% or 40% tax payer) from 12 August 2019 up to the 
date of this final decision. 
-Any tax-free cash Mrs B may have been able to take from her pension. 
-Interest to be added to each payment at 8% per year simple from the date it was due to the 
date of my final decision. 
-only if it hasnt already done so, pay Mrs B £210 for the inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has offered to set up and backdate Mrs Bs annuity. If Mrs B accepts 
my decision, Phoenix Life Limited needs to do this using the methodology Ive set out in the 
putting things right section above. I dont uphold the part of Mrs Bs complaint about the 
setting up and sale of her pension policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman