DRN-4420178
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMW) was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2021, Miss J was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. She paid an advance payment of £100, and the agreement was for £9,450 over 59 
months; with monthly payments of £196.87. At the time of supply, the car was around seven 
years old, and had done 78,375 miles (according to the MOT record for 18 June 2021).
Miss J first complained there were faults with the car, relating to the radio, steering, and 
battery, in August 2021. The car was repaired by the supplying dealership. Miss J then drove 
and maintained the car, which included replacing tyres, wheel nuts, and refilling the air-con 
gas, until July 2022. At which point she had it inspected for a rattling noise.
Miss J received a quote for £1,263.60 for the repair work, which was needed because the 
front differential had been incorrectly fitted when a new gearbox had been fitted to the car in 
April 2021  before it was supplied to Miss J. The incorrect fitting had resulting in the 
differential housing cracking, and the bolts eventually working loose. Miss J paid to have the 
car repaired.
In February 2023, Miss J received a further quote as the rear differential had now failed. She 
complained to BMW, but they didnt uphold her complaint as they said she hadnt proved to 
them the issues with the car were present when it was supplied to her. Miss J wasnt happy 
with this response, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the damage to the differentials would most likely have been 
caused when the gearbox was fitted in April 2021. As this was just before the car was 
supplied to Miss J, the investigator said the issues with the car were developing at the point 
of supply, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality. So, the investigator said BMW 
needed to do something to put things right.
The investigator said that BMW should cover the costs of repair to both the front and rear 
differential, as well as covering the £99 costs of the hire car Miss J took when the front 
differential was being repaired, plus statutory interest. She also said that BMW should pay 
Miss J £300 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Miss J agreed with the investigator, but BMW didnt. They said that, as the issues with the 
differential didnt occur until Miss J had had the car for around 18-months, she was required 
to prove to them that the faults were present or developing when the car was supplied to her, 
which she didnt do. They also said that the repairs to the front differential were carried out 
without their consent. 
I issued a provisional view on 12 October 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that view I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss J was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss J to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss J took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
Ive seen that Miss J had the car inspected by an independent garage on 27 July 2022. The 
report from the garage says we have found the front Diff has possibly been bolted up 
incorrectly when the gearbox was fitted  because this has possibly been bolted up 
incorrectly when the gearbox was done it has caused it to crack  I would also like to point 
out that the bolts are loose [and] missing. They also provided photographic evidence of the 
crack, the missing and loose bolts, and of a date written on the gearbox showing that it was 
fitted on 5 April 2021.
Ive seen that Miss J rented a car from 30 July to 1 August 2022, to keep her mobile while 
the front differential was being repaired. The cost of this repair was £1,263.60 including VAT.
Ive also seen an estimate dated 9 February 2023 for the replacement of the rear differential 
at the total cost (parts and labour) of £2,936.75.
When a gearbox is fitted, then its likely that work would be required on the differentials. As 
its my understanding that the car supplied to Miss J was a four wheel drive, then Id expect 
both front and rear differentials to be affected. Whats more, where a component has been 
incorrectly fitted due to the over- or under-tightening of bolts, Id wouldnt expect the damage 
to occur immediately. Components would crack, and bolts would work loose, over time, 
under the stresses and strains of normal driving. So, I dont consider the failure of the 
differentials 18-months to 2-years after the gearbox was fitted to be so unusual as to be 
completely unconnected.
Ive seen that the supplying dealership, and therefore BMW, didnt accept the independent 
garages report of 27 July 2022 to be sufficient to prove the that [sic] faults were present at 
the point of sale. However, for the reasons stated above, Im satisfied that it does. And, if 
the dealership / BMW werent happy with this proof, then they were able to obtain their own 
independent report. But they chose not to do this.As such, Im satisfied that the faults with both the front and rear differentials relate to work 
that was undertaken shortly before the car was supplied to Miss J. Which means the faults 
with the car were present or developing at the point of supply, and the car was therefore of 
an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss J. So, under the requirements of the 
CRA, BMW need to do something to put things right.
I appreciate BMWs arguments that the repairs to the front differential werent authorised by 
them. However, I havent seen anything within the agreement Miss J signed that says BMW 
must authorise all repairs to the car. Whats more, as BMW werent involved in the complaint 
at this point, I wouldnt have expected Miss J to contact them for authorisation.
Its also the case that, had this been the end of it, then Miss J wouldnt have raised the issue 
with BMW at all  she only did so after the linked failure of the rear differential. Having 
reviewed the costs of repairs to the front differential, I dont think they are so unreasonable 
that I consider Miss J to have been overcharged for this work. As such, Im satisfied that 
BMW should reimburse her for the cost of this work, and for the costs of her hiring a car to 
keep her mobile while this work was being done.
With regards to the rear differential, this hasnt yet been repaired. And its resulted in the car 
being off the road since 1 June 2023, when Miss J declared a SORN. Id expect BMW to 
arrange to repair the car, either by covering the costs of repair at the garage Miss J has 
already had the quote from, or by arranging repair at a garage of their choice, as well as 
covering all the costs of this (including collection and return of the car).
Whats more, as Im satisfied the car is off the road due to it being of an unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied, and as BMW have failed to keep Miss J mobile, Im also 
satisfied that BMW should refund any payment Miss J has made since June 2023  the date 
of the SORN.
Finally, its clear that Miss J has been inconvenienced by what has happened. So, I think 
BMW should compensate her for this. The investigator recommended BMW pay her £300, 
which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see 
no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, its my intention to ask BMW to:
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Js credit file;
arrange for the repair to the rear differential to take place, at no cost to Miss J*;
reimburse Miss J £1,263.60 for the repairs to the front differential;
reimburse Miss J £99 for the costs of the hire car while the front differential was 
being repaired;
refund the payments Miss J has paid from June 2023 to the date the car is repaired 
and returned to her;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Miss J made the payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Miss J an additional £300 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
*If BMW consider the costs of repair to the rear differential to be uneconomical, they can 
allow Miss J to reject the car instead. In these circumstances, they should end the 
agreement with nothing more to pay, collect the car at no cost to Miss J, and refund the £100 
deposit she paid. This is in addition to the reimbursement of the front differential repair costs, 
the reimbursement of the hire car costs, the refund of all payments made in or after June 
2023, 8% simple yearly interest on all of these refunds/reimbursements (including the 
deposit), and the £300 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused.HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to take off tax from this interest. BMW must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Responses
Miss J agreed with my provisional view, but BMW didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As BMW havent said anything to the contrary, Im taking their comments to mean they dont 
object to my provisional view.
As such, the comments Ive received dont change my view that BMW should cover the 
costs of the repair to the car they supplied to Miss J. And, given this, I see no compelling 
reason why I shouldnt now adopt my provisional view as my final decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons already given, BMW should:
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Js credit file;
arrange for the repair to the rear differential to take place, at no cost to Miss J*;
reimburse Miss J £1,263.60 for the repairs to the front differential;
reimburse Miss J £99 for the costs of the hire car while the front differential was 
being repaired;
refund the payments Miss J has paid from June 2023 to the date the car is repaired 
and returned to her;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Miss J made the payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Miss J an additional £300 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
*If BMW consider the costs of repair to the rear differential to be uneconomical, they can 
allow Miss J to reject the car instead. In these circumstances, they should end the 
agreement with nothing more to pay, collect the car at no cost to Miss J, and refund the £100 
deposit she paid. This is in addition to the reimbursement of the front differential repair costs, 
the reimbursement of the hire car costs, the refund of all payments made in or after June 
2023, 8% simple yearly interest on all of these refunds/reimbursements (including the 
deposit), and the £300 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to take off tax from this interest. BMW must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Js complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services. And they are to follow my directions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman