DRN-1728367
The complaint
Mr T has complained that BNP Paribas Cardif Limited trading as Warranty Direct sold him a 
guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy shortly before the underwriter of the policy went 
out of business.
In bringing this complaint Mr Ts been helped by his partner. But for ease of reading I'll refer 
to her comments as being Mr Ts.
Background
Warranty Direct is an insurance intermediary. That means it sells insurance policies and may 
help with their administration. But the cover is provided by an insurer which is a separate 
business. In this case Ill refer to that insurer as L.
Mr T bought a new car. Soon after Warranty Direct sold him a vehicle replacement insurance 
GAP policy. Some months later Warranty Direct told Mr T L had gone into liquidation. That 
means it was no longer trading. And Ls administrators handling the liquidation, who Ill call 
Q, hadnt been able to find another insurer to transfer Ls existing policies to. Mr Ts policy 
was cancelled and he received a pro rata refund of premium.
Mr T complained. He felt Warranty Direct knew (or should have known) about Ls financial 
trouble at the time it sold him the policy. And because of a delay in Warranty Direct telling 
him about Ls liquidation he could no longer find a replacement policy. One of our  
investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. Our investigator didn't think Warranty Direct had 
done anything wrong. Mr T didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
I can understand Mr Ts frustration. On 8 April 2019 he took out a policy that would allow him 
to buy a like-for-like replacement car in the event that his new car was deemed a total loss 
within the next four years. But around six weeks later, on 21 May 2019, L applied for 
liquidation. And eventually Mr T lost all benefit from the cover. And while I can understand 
why he found that disappointing, I don't think that means Warranty Direct did anything 
wrong.
I can understand Mr T thinks Warranty Direct should have known about Ls financial 
difficulties. But I've seen no evidence, beyond Mr Ts comments, to suggest those difficulties 
were widely known. And Warranty Direct has confirmed it didn't know of Ls application for 
liquidation until that had happened. So I don't think Warranty Direct could have known about 
Ls problems when it sold the policy. It follows I don't think Warranty Direct did anything 
wrong in selling Mr T the policy.
I understand Mr T wasn't able to find a suitable policy to replace the one Warranty Direct had 
sold to him. But I don't think thats because Warranty Direct did anything wrong. Its fairly 
common for certain GAP policies to have eligibility criteria which mean consumers can only 
buy them within a short window of time after buying their new car. And, by the time Q said 
they couldn't find an alternative insurer to transfer the existing policies to, that window had 
closed. 
But I don't think that situation arose because of anything Warranty Direct did wrong. It wasn't 
responsible for Qs actions, and the policies remained in force, under the protection provided 
by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) until Q cancelled them. So while I 
have a great deal of sympathy for the unfortunate position Mr T finds himself in, I don't think 
that's because of anything Warranty Direct did or didn't do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman