DRN-2905578
The complaint
Mr W says TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
  
What happened
Mr W took out a 40-month instalment loan from TM Advances on 1 December 2019. It was 
for £3000 and the monthly repayments were £249. The total repayable was £9960. The loan 
was settled early in June 2020.
Mr W says TM Advances didnt carry out due diligence or checks on his financial position. 
He immediately fell into difficulties repaying the loan and had to borrow from family to repay 
the loan. 
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. She said TM Advances 
carried out proportionate checks but from the information it gathered it should have seen that 
Mr W was having problems managing his money. 
TM Advances disagreed saying the loan was given to allow Mr W to settle his existing 
payday loans and so end his reliance on them. The monthly repayment was more than 
affordable given Mr Ws income level.
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when TM Advances lent to Mr W required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TM Advances had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr 
W. In other words, it wasnt enough for TM Advances to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TM Advances did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Mr W. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following 
questions:
- did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Ws loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
- did TM Advances make a fair lending decision?
- did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see TM Advances asked for certain information from Mr W before it approved the loan. 
It asked for details of his income and living expenses. And it validated his salary and key 
expenses, such as rent, by obtaining a recent bank statement. It also checked his credit file 
to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked what the 
loan was for and when Mr W replied debt consolidation it asked Mr W why he had needed to 
take out his recent payday loans. He said he had been out of work. From these checks 
combined TM Advances concluded the loan was affordable for Mr W.
Im satisfied the checks were proportionate. But, on balance, I dont think that TM Advances 
made a fair lending decision. 
In this case I dont think TM Advances has evidenced that it made a borrower-focused 
assessment, and I think ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr W would be able to repay 
his loan sustainably  even if it seemed affordable on a pounds and pence basis. And this 
was what TM Advances needed to check to meet its regulatory obligations.
Ill explain why this is my finding. TM Advances submission shows it understood Mr W had 
unsecured debt of £7256 and 13 active accounts. Ive thought carefully about what TM 
Advances said in response to our adjudicators view. But I dont think the fact alone that this 
expensive loan was taken out to repay other expensive credit means it was fairly provided. 
Whilst Mr W was taking out the loan to repay five high-cost short-term loans that he had, this 
only amounted to clearing around £3000 of his total unsecured debt. I think TM Advances 
ought reasonably to have been aware from the information it had gathered about Mr Ws 
outstanding debt that the consolidation of these most recent payday loans alone wasnt likely 
to help Mr W make sufficient inroads into his existing debt for it to be certain that he wouldnt 
go to have further financial difficulties. Whilst its loan would reduce his monthly repayments in the near term - and so TM Advances 
might argue it was a more affordable solution that his existing short-term borrowings - over 
the longer term it was significantly increasing his overall indebtedness (from £7256 to 
£14197). And even after settling the five high-cost short-term loans I think his finances were 
still under pressure with three credit cards over their limit, an overdraft of over £1000 and a 
loan which already had an arrangement to pay in place. I note Mr W explained to TM 
Advances that his finances were under such pressure as he had been out of work. But I 
cant see it sought to check if this was the sole cause of his heavy reliance on high-cost 
short-term credit since 2017, that was evident on his credit file, before making its lending 
decision.
I think based on the information it gathered TM Advances ought to have been concerned 
giving more credit to Mr W put him at risk of experiencing financial difficulties. And he did go 
on to struggle to make even the first repayment on this loan  and has told us he eventually 
had to borrow from family to clear the loan leaving him with more debt to repay, albeit an 
informal debt.  
For the reasons set out above, I think TM Advances ought reasonably to have realised that 
there was a risk Mr W would be unable to sustainably repay his loan over the 40-month loan 
term. In these individual circumstances, TM Advances should have made a different lending 
decision. It follows I think Mr W has lost out because of what TM Advances did wrong.
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to him. 
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr W 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then TM Advances should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM Advances 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint and TM Advances Limited must put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman