DRN-2860375
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct hasnt refunded him all of the 
money he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ms complaint. As such the facts are well-known to all involved parties 
and so I dont intend to repeat them at length here. But in summary:  
- In February 2020 Mr M received a call from somebody claiming to be a warrant 
officer from HMRC. But unknown to him at the time, the call was from a fraudster.
- The fraudster told Mr M there was a warrant against him for prosecution, due to 
unpaid taxes and a payment needed to be made. 
- Mr M told us that the previous week he had received an email from HMRC regarding 
a change in his tax code. Hes said he was in a state of panic and believed the call to 
be genuine and thought it may be linked to the email hed received.
- Believing the caller to be genuine and on the premise that he needed to make a 
payment, to avoid a potential custodial sentence, Mr M went ahead and made two 
faster payments, from his HSBC account, totalling £1,786 (made up of payments for 
£942 and £844).
- Mr M was also persuaded by the fraudster to purchase a pre-paid card (from a 
different issuer) for the value of £1,999.55 (which he paid for with his HSBC debit 
card). But these funds have since been refunded to Mr M, by the pre-paid card 
issuer.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme HSBC has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
- ignored an effective warning;
- made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or 
- has been grossly negligent. 
HSBC did refund Mr M 50% of his loss when he reported the scam. It did so on the basis it 
could have done more to protect and advise Mr M before he made the payment. HSBC 
declined to refund the remaining 50%, as it felt Mr M couldve taken more caution and 
carried out further checks before he made the payments.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with HSBCs decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator thought Mr M had a reasonable basis for believing he was making a 
legitimate payment. In summary, she noted the week before Mr M had received a genuine 
email from HMRC and considering the pressure and panic he felt at the time, this email 
would have made the call seem very plausible. She added the fraudster used technical and 
financial language which Mr M thought sounded real and made him feel the situation was 
very serious and urgent. So, she thought it understandable that hed follow the instructions 
he was given by the fraudster. 
Overall, our investigator said HSBC ought to have fully reimbursed Mr M at the time he 
made his claim and so it should refund the remaining money he lost. She said HSBC should 
pay Mr M interest on the refund, calculated at 8% from the date it declined his claim to the 
date of settlement. She also said HSBC should pay Mr M £100 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset caused.
The investigators opinion was sent to both parties on 17 January 2021, with a deadline for 
responding of 31 January 2021. That deadline has passed and, over four months later, the 
bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. 
 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from HSBC to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of HSBCs failure to reply to the investigators opinion.
 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr M ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified HSBC of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his requisite 
level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has 
already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mr M to have received a full 
refund at the time.
Although most of Mr Ms distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of the fraudsters, I think HSBC could have done more to protect him from the impact of this.  The scam has had a profound impact on Mr M and it has caused an immense amount of 
stress and anxiety, some of which could have been avoided. I therefore consider £100 
compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr M ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the Code. I therefore direct HSBC UK Bank 
Plc trading as first direct to pay Mr M: 
- the remaining 50% of the money he lost  i.e. £893  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision;
- interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date HSBC declined Mr Ms claim under the CRM to the date of 
settlement; and
- £100 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman