DRN-3325723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about two Phoenix Life Limited mortgage endowment 
policies they took out in 1990.
 
What happened
In a decision earlier this month I said we would only consider part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
as their complaint about the sales of the policies hadnt been made in time. I said we would 
only consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the performance of the policies.
Our investigator had already told Mr and Mrs W that she didnt uphold this point, and as 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree I now issue this final decision as the last stage of our process.
Any mention of Phoenix in this decision should be taken to refer to one (or both) of the 
predecessor businesses where applicable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont regulate financial firms, so I cant tell Phoenix how to run its business; thats a 
matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. I can only uphold this complaint if I think its fair 
and reasonable to do so; that is, if Phoenix has done something wrong. I dont think it has 
and Ill explain why.
The policies in question here were with-profit mortgage endowments. That meant each was 
a contract under which the business had to pay a basic sum assured (in this case £8,215 
and £544 respectively) plus any accrued bonuses when the policies matured. While 
Mr and Mrs W may have been given projections about the potential future performance, 
these arent the same as providing a legally binding guarantee.
I think it would be useful to explain how the addition of bonuses affect the maturity value of 
this type of policy. These policies can attract two types of bonus - annual bonuses and a 
terminal bonus. Once annual bonuses are added they are guaranteed but the terminal bonus 
isnt guaranteed until its paid. Each year Phoenix would take into account such issues as the 
bonuses already declared, any benefits that have to be paid under policies, previous 
investment returns and what returns may be possible in future before deciding the level of 
bonus to be applied. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs W the returns for such policies have been much lower than 
when they took out these policies in 1990. This has led to a reduction in the annual bonuses 
applied and the terminal bonus rates. Future bonuses levels were never guaranteed and 
there was no absolute requirement to pay any level of bonus.
I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs W have raised these concerns and it is very unfortunate that 
bonuses have fallen so much compared to when the policies were taken out. But all of this 
isnt in itself evidence of mismanagement or Phoenix necessarily acting incorrectly.
For each policy, Mr and Mrs W and Phoenix entered into a contract. Mr and Mrs W agreed to 
pay a monthly premium and Phoenix agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also 
agreed to provide an investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a 
target amount.
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for growth rates havent been reached - far 
from it - but they were never guaranteed. A shortfall was always possible. Of course, no-one 
thought that would happen but it doesnt change the nature of the contract. 
For each policy, Mr and Mrs W paid their premium each month and Phoenix had to invest 
the premium, taking costs as and when required from the fund. As far as I can see that is 
exactly what it did. Growth over the policy term has turned the premiums paid into a maturity 
value which unfortunately was less than hoped for.
Mr and Mrs W were warned about the progress. It was made clear that the policies were not 
performing as expected and were unlikely to reach their target values. Mr and Mrs W were 
encouraged to take action to deal with this situation.
Phoenix did what it had to do. Mr and Mrs W have known about the poor performance of the 
policies for some time and that the maturity values werent guaranteed. I know that 
Mr and Mrs W believe the performance of these policies in comparison with another is 
evidence that Phoenix did something wrong. If I look across the industry I see most 
businesses, indeed most investment classes, having similar problems. The economic and 
regulatory situation is very different now from what it was in 1990. That is nothing to do with 
Phoenix. I dont know where Phoenixs investment returns sit in any table of results but it 
will no doubt be more successful than some but less successful than others. 
Being able to say that, looking back, different investment decisions would have been more 
profitable than the ones actually taken is a statement of the obvious. To make judgments like 
that, however, would be to use hindsight in making a decision. I cannot use hindsight in 
making a decision. 
A very large number of decisions over a 30 year period relating to investments, costs and 
charges have been made by the investment managers at Phoenix. Those decisions were 
made in a regulated environment with layers of governance, independent scrutiny (such as 
by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. Some of the factors influencing returns were 
outside its control. Even if I were to try and drill down to individual decisions it is very 
unlikely that I could point to an individual decision or set of decisions which were, without 
using hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress should be paid. 
Im satisfied Phoenix has kept Mr and Mrs W informed over the years, rather than it being a 
surprise when the policies came to mature in 2019 and 2020. Its unlikely to have been in the 
interests of the fund managers to perform badly and Im sure Phoenix would have wanted 
the fund to do as well as possible. I havent seen anything to persuade me that Phoenix 
mismanaged the fund or acted negligently.
Im afraid the simple fact here is that Mr and Mrs W invested in an investment product which 
hasnt performed as well as hoped. I have seen no grounds for upholding this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman