DRN-3326657
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd didnt do more to protect him from fraud.
Background
Mr D has an account with CB Payments. In 2019, he was persuaded to make a significant 
investment in cryptocurrency. He was contacted by a man who said he was a representative 
of a broker. He was told he could earn generous returns on his money by exploiting arbitrage 
opportunities between competing cryptocurrency exchanges. He was persuaded to deposit 
funds into his CB Payments account which was then converted into Bitcoin in his Coinbase 
account. The Bitcoin was then transferred on to the broker. 
Mr D was given access to an online portal in which he could see how his investment was 
performing. Unfortunately, the person who had contacted him wasnt a legitimate broker, but 
a scammer. It was only when Mr D attempted to withdraw money from his investment that 
his access to the online portal was blocked and contact with the scammer ceased. At this 
point, Mr D realised that hed fallen victim to a scam.
Mr D was unhappy that CB Payments hadnt done more to protect him from the scam. He 
thinks it should now pay him a refund. When it declined to do so, he referred a complaint to 
this service. It was allocated to an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator noted 
that CB Payments was an authorised electronic-money institution and so we could only 
investigate its acts and omissions in relation to that authorisation. Any aspects of Mr Ds 
complaint that should properly be directed to Coinbase were outside of this services 
jurisdiction.
The Investigator said that CB Payments needed to take reasonable steps to protect Mr D 
from the risk of financial harm and fraud. This would include being on the lookout for 
transactions that were unusual or out of character and taking appropriate preventative action 
in response. The Investigator wasnt persuaded that the transactions ought to have alerted 
CB Payments to the possibility that Mr D was at risk of financial harm. He looked at the 
activity on Mr Ds account and thought it looked typical of the way a CB Payments customer 
would use their account. 
Mr D disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that, as a matter of course, CB 
Payments shouldve had stronger controls and checks in place for any customer opening a 
new account. He said that no customer uses CB Payments for any purpose other than 
conduiting funds into a Bitcoin wallet maintained by Coinbase. He said that investing in 
cryptocurrency is high risk and any new customer should have a series of questions asked 
to rule out the most common circumstances under which they might be falling victim to a 
scam.
Because Mr D disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, Ive taken into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And having done so, Im not 
persuaded that CB Payments has done anything wrong here.
Its common ground that Mr D authorised the payments in question, albeit I accept that this 
was the start of a chain of events that ultimately led to his losing cryptocurrency to a 
scammer. These were, therefore, authorised payments and so under the relevant rules and 
regulations, Mr D is presumed liable at first instance.
However, good industry practice required that CB Payments be on the lookout for account 
activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. This would include 
monitoring account activity for transactions that were unusual or out of character. In some 
circumstances, it was expected to take additional steps, or carry out additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that CB Payments wouldve had any reasonable basis for 
intervening and questioning this specific payment before allowing it to be processed. 
Accepting transfers of fiat currency and facilitating the purchase of Bitcoin is characteristic of 
the way CB Payments customers would be expected to use their e-wallets. In addition to 
that, the cryptocurrency that was being purchased was being added to Mr Ds account with 
Coinbase. He was asking for a payment to be facilitated between two accounts that he 
controlled, which wouldve reduced the concern that Mr D was at risk of financial harm.
Finally, the payments Mr D made that led him to the scam were not out of character when 
considered alongside the other transactions that had been made via his CB Payments 
account.
Mr D has set out what he considers a firm ought to do in respect of checks and controls 
whenever a new deposit is made. This includes a minimum level of questioning that a 
customer should be subject to before being allowed to make payments out of their account. I 
recognise that, with the benefit of hindsight, this may have prevented Mr D from falling victim 
to this scam, but Im not persuaded it wouldve been proportionate to have asked his these 
questions with every deposit.
Mr D seems to be suggesting that there should be a presumption that any payment 
instruction should be treated as fraudulent. I accept what he has said about the inherent 
risks associated with investing in cryptoassets. However, I dont think it follows that all 
transactions pursuant to an investment in cryptocurrency are more likely than not connected 
with an attempted fraud or that individuals who want to invest their money in cryptoassets 
shouldnt be free to do so.
I know that Mr D has fallen victim to a cynical and manipulative scam here and he has my 
sympathy. But regrettably, I dont find that there are any grounds to uphold his complaint. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman