DRN-4076579
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card with Lendable in April 2022. Lendable approved the application 
and gave Mr A a credit card with a limit of £1000. There were no further credit limit increases 
on the account.
Mr A complained that Lendable had lent irresponsibly. Lendable didnt agree. Mr A remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lendable had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that there was no evidence to suggest that Mr A 
was struggling financially at the time of the application.
Mr A didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
including the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice on our website. Ive had 
this approach in mind when considering Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think Lendable 
lent irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve caried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr A could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of things such as how much was being lent, 
Mr As borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Lendable has provided details of the checks it carried out before it approved the credit card. 
It says these checks were reasonable and proportionate.
I can see that Mr A stated that his net monthly income was £2,571 when he applied for the 
card. Lendable verified this and found that Mr As income was £1,915. Lendable used an 
industry tool to assess Mr As expenditure and found that Mr A had sufficient disposable 
income to afford repayments on the credit card.
Lendable also carried out credit checks. These showed that Mr A had three credit cards, a 
current account and a hire purchase agreement. The checks showed that all of these 
accounts were up to date and that there had been no missed payments in the last 12 
months. 
The credit checks also showed that Mr A had a number of accounts where he had defaulted 
on payments. These defaults were more than 12 months old and Mr A was making 
repayments to clear the outstanding balances.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by Lendable were 
reasonable and proportionate. I havent seen anything to suggest that Lendable shouldve 
carried out further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr A could sustainably repay the lending based on the 
outcome of the checks.
I can see that Mr A had experienced financial difficulties in the past and had defaulted on 
several accounts. However, just because a consumer has defaulted in the past doesnt 
mean that a lender is irresponsible if it lends to them in the future. The information obtained 
from the checks carried out by Lendable showed that Mr A hadnt defaulted on any accounts 
or incurred any arrears in the last 12 months. None of his credit cards were fully utilised and 
his current account overdraft wasnt being used regularly. Taking into account the relatively 
low credit limit on the credit card, I dont think theres anything in the information obtained by 
Lendable to suggest that the credit wasnt affordable for Mr A.
I appreciate that Mr A experienced financial difficulties some time after the credit card was 
approved. However, theres nothing to suggest, based on the information Ive seen, that Mr 
A was experiencing difficulties at the time he applied for the credit card or that the lending 
wasnt affordable for him at that time. So I dont think there was any reason for Lendable to 
have concerns about Mr As ability to repay the lending.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint,
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman