DRN-2070335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down their travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have travel insurance as part of their packaged bank account. 
In 2018, the policy renewed. After this, Mr and Mrs P booked a holiday which was due to 
take place in May 2019. In February 2019, Mr P was diagnosed with angina and needed an 
operation. Mr and Mrs P therefore cancelled their holiday and submitted a cancellation claim 
to UKI.
UKI turned down the claim. It said the information from Mr Ps GP showed that he was taking 
medication for high cholesterol. UKI said that Mr P had failed to tell it this information at 
renewal. In response, Mr P said hed told UKI what medications he was on when he took out 
the policy in 2017. And that he didnt think he needed to tell UKI about these medications 
again when the policy renewed. UKI didnt alter its decision and so Mr and Mrs P brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He thought UKI had made it 
clear to Mr P at renewal that it needed to re-screen all his medical history. He also thought 
UKI had asked Mr P a clear question that shouldve prompted him to disclose he was taking 
medication for high cholesterol. However, he didnt think UKI was entitled to decline the 
claim in full, as he noted UKI would have still offered Mr and Mrs P cover, albeit for a higher 
premium. He therefore recommended UKI pay a proportionate settlement for the claim. 
UKI didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI says that Mr P failed to tell it relevant information about his health when renewing the 
policy, I need to consider the case in accordance with the principles set out under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which concerns 
misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA, theres a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to an insurer, and if a qualifying misrepresentation is made, it sets out the 
remedies that are available to the insurer. 
Ive therefore listened to the renewal call that took place between UKI and Mr P in 2018. 
The adviser explained to Mr P that when the policy renews, they need to re-screen all the 
medical conditions again. She asked Mr P Have either of you been prescribed medication in 
the last 12 months, whether taking it or not? I think this question was clear. Mr P said yes. 
He then confirmed his medical conditions and the medication he took for them. 
Mr Ps GP said on the medical certificate that the condition which caused the claim was 
heart disease. The GP also confirmed that Mr P had raised cholesterol and statins were 
started in September 2014.
Mr P didnt tell UKI during the renewal call that he was taking medication for raised 
cholesterol. I therefore agree with our investigator that he failed to take reasonable care 
when answering the questions and so there was misrepresentation. Given that Mr P 
disclosed other relevant conditions and medication, I think his misrepresentation was 
careless rather than deliberate. 
UKI has explained that if Mr P had advised it of his high cholesterol, it would have still 
covered this, but for a higher premium. That means the misrepresentation was qualifying. 
CIDRA explains that in such circumstances, an insurer may reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on a claim, as our investigator had recommended. 
UKI argues that CIDRA should not apply to this case, as Mr P chose not to pay an additional 
premium for his pre-existing medical conditions at his latest renewal. I assume that UKI 
therefore thinks that even if it had offered Mr P the opportunity to pay more to cover his 
raised cholesterol, he wouldnt have paid this. 
Ive listened to the latest renewal call (which took place after the claim) and I disagree with 
UKI that Mr P refused to pay an additional premium to cover his medical conditions. Mr P 
was shortly due to have a heart bypass operation, and although he wanted to pay for the 
age upgrade during the call, he said he would call back for the medical screening after hed 
had his operation (once he knew how it had gone), as he didnt have any holidays arranged 
at that time. UKI confirmed to him during the call that this was fine. 
I therefore remain satisfied that CIDRA should apply and that UKI ought to settle the claim 
on a proportionate basis.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to 
settle the claim on a proportionate basis. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum from the date of claim to the dat e of settlement. 
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman