DRN-2845987
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as Z, is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wouldnt reimburse 
the money it lost due to an authorised push payment scam. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at 
length here. Briefly, in October 2019, Z was to make a payment of $15,000 (about £10,000) 
to one of its suppliers. Initially the payment was made to an account abroad, but the 
payment did not go through and Z was asked via email to pay into a UK bank account. Z 
made some checks on this request and afterwards proceeded to make the payment. 
Unknown to Z, it appears that its emails to the supplier had been intercepted - possibly since 
August that year  and a fraudster had been replying to both A and the supplier. It was they 
who instructed Z to make the payment to a UK account, pretending to be the supplier.
The scam came to light a few weeks later when the genuine supplier contacted Z for their 
payment. Z immediately contacted their bank Santander who in turn contacted the recipients 
bank, but the funds had already been transferred out of the recipients account. So the 
receiving bank was unable to return any money to Z.
Z says that it hadnt done anything wrong as it took all the necessary care before making the 
payment. So it feels that Santander should refund the payment to it. 
Santander says that the payment was authorised by Z and when making the payment it 
would have been given multiple warnings about potential scams. It says that it did all it could 
to recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam. It also said that it cant reimburse 
Z under the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM code) as Z is not eligible 
under the code. 
One of our investigators concluded that complaint couldnt be upheld. They said, in 
summary, that the bank didnt do anything wrong as the payment wasnt particularly unusual 
or suspicious for the bank to have acted upon. So they were unable to ask the bank to 
compensate Z. 
Z didnt agree and asked for their opinion to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of what had happened to Z. I can see that it carried out checks on being 
told to make the payment to an account with unknown name. Unfortunately it wasnt aware 
that its emails were monitored and answered by the fraudster, and there was nothing 
suspicious in the way the fraudster replied to its queries. So I can understand why it feels 
that as the innocent party, it shouldnt lose out. But having thought very carefully, I dont 
think I can fairly say Santander should reimburse the sum the company lost to the fraudster. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Taking those into account as well, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions that might indicate that its 
customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so given the 
increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Z when it made the transfer and when it reported the fraud; or whether the bank should 
have done more than it did.
It is not disputed that Z authorised and instructed the bank to make the payment. Because of 
this, Santander had an obligation to follow its instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander shouldve 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
I have reviewed Zs statements for the 12 months leading up to the scam. In summary, there 
were several (undisputed) payments out of the account of a similar size or higher. The 
account can be said to be busy with a variety of payment transactions and a fluctuating 
account balance. And, the disputed payment clearly didnt consume all of the funds in the 
account  which might have been an indicator that Z was at risk of fraud. The payment was 
to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given Santander much cause for concern. 
For these reasons, I dont think the payment Z made would have stood out as being 
particularly unusual or suspicious compared to its normal account activity. So I dont think 
Santander acted unreasonably by not making further enquiries about the payment before 
processing it.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model Code On some occasions, its possible to consider whether a customer is covered under the CRM 
code which came into effect from 28 May 2019. However, Z is not covered by the code. 
Section DS1(2)(e) of the code defines the Customer to whom the Code applies as: 
A payer as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs (Payment Services Regulations 2017), 
that is, a person who holds a payment account and initiates, or consents to the initiation of, a 
payment order from that payment account who is: 
(i) a Consumer, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that is, an individual who, in 
contracts for payment services to which the PSRs apply, is acting for purposes other 
than a trade business or profession; 
(ii) a Micro-enterprise, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that is, in summary, an 
enterprise which employs fewer than 10 persons and whose annual turnover and/or 
annual balance sheet total does not exceed EUR 2 million; and 
(iii) a Charity, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the PSRs, that is, in summary, a charity 
with annual income of less than £1 million.
In this case Z is clearly an enterprise but it is not a micro-enterprise as it employed more 
than 10 persons at the relevant time. So unfortunately it isnt covered by the CRM code in 
this instance. 
Confirmation of Payee
In response to investigators opinion, Z has asked whether Santander ought to have flagged 
the payment up if there was unusual sounding payee name. I am not certain whether that 
sort of check is ever possible. 
Nevertheless, as stated by the investigator, until recently when a payment was made the 
banks were required to check only the sort code and account number were correct. In 2020 
the Payment Services Regulator instructed the five largest banking groups and the 
Nationwide Building Society to implement a process called Confirmation of Payee, which in 
effect checks the intended payees name against the actual name of the recipient and 
highlights if they didnt match. However this payment occurred before Confirmation of Payee 
was out in place. 
Recovery action by Santander 
I have also considered whether Santander ought to have done more to recover the payment. 
Unfortunately by the time Z became aware of the scam nearly a month had passed since the 
transaction. I can see that it immediately contacted Santander who in turn contacted the 
receiving bank on the same day. But the receiving bank advised that the money was no 
longer in the recipients account. In the circumstances I dont think Santander could have 
done more in order to recover the payment. 
In summary, it is clear that Z was an unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam. However, 
for the reasons outlined, I cant say Santander should have done more to prevent its loss. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask the bank to reimburse the payment made by Z.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman