DRN-2751301
The complaint
Mr H complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have recorded him at fault for a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Most motor insurance policies contain a term which says the insurer can take over 
and deal with the claim in the way it sees fit, and I can see this is the case with this 
policy. It isnt for this service to decide who is liable for an accident, however we do 
look at whether the insurer has acted reasonably in reaching its decision
Mr H says he always refueled his car at a garage owned by a third party. He believed 
the third party was responsible for the issues he experienced with his car in 2015, 
and that AXA should have pursued this with the third party
I can see from the claim notes AXA contacted the garage in question, and the third 
partys head office, to make enquires about contaminated fuel. So I do think they 
considered what Mr H had said at the time. But from considering the information 
available, AXA decided there was not enough evidence to hold the third party liable 
for the damage. From the information available to me, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to do so
Mr H is unhappy the claim as been recorded as a fault against him. I appreciate why 
he feels this way, but this isnt unusual. A claim being recorded against a policy 
holder also means the insurer has paid out a claim and they havent been able to 
recover the claim costs from another party. So I dont think AXA have acted 
unreasonably in doing so
I think AXA could have made it clearer to Mr H about the outcome of the claim  and 
advised him of how it had been recorded. Mr H only became aware of this in 2020, 
almost five years later. Considering this, I think AXA should pay Mr H £100 
compensation as it fairly reflects the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint
To put things right, AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman