DRN-3968419
The complaint
Failed to send him appropriate evidence to say theyd taken over the debts, and have 
used his data illegally
Are contacting him, as hes got disputes over the two accounts theyve purchased, 
and says theyre bullying and victimising him by affecting his health when he has a 
protected characteristic
Have refused to remove the defaults for the two accounts
Sent him a link to a marketing survey which he considers spam and has asked them 
not to do so previously
Ended a call with him saying he was swearing at them when he wasnt  making him 
feel discriminated against
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Ive seen from letters sent the debts were bought by a member of the Lowell group who are 
the debt purchaser, who then asked Lowell Financial Ltd to act as the debt collector. The 
first account was bought on 5 August 2021 from a company Ill call L for £261.08, and Lowell 
wrote to Mr W with a Notice of Assignment (NoA) on 16 August 2021. The second account 
was bought on 27 September 2021 from a company Ill call O for £1,912.89, and Lowell 
wrote to Mr W with a NoA on 14 October 2021.
Mr W raised a number of concerns, which Ive listed out above.
In his contact with us Mr W has set out his health conditions. I thank Mr W for sharing those 
with our service. Ive not listed them here out of respect for his privacy, but I want Mr W to 
know I have taken them into account when deciding the outcome of his case. 
Lowell said they did send Mr W the NoAs, and thats all they needed to send to prove 
theyre now the owner of the accounts. But, as Mr W has queried this, theyve asked L and O 
for the original credit agreements and statements which theyll forward on once received. So, 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong on this point or had used his data incorrectly as 
they owned these accounts now. In relation to the contact they felt this was all appropriate 
and had now passed Mr Ws accounts over to their specialist team to support him. They said 
although theyd not found any evidence theyd acted incorrectly, they said sorry Mr W 
considered this to be the case, as it was never their intention. As for the defaults they said 
these were applied by L and O respectively, and as new owners of the debts they were 
required to continue reporting them. They were though aware Mr W had raised disputes over 
them with L and O. As a result of all of this, they said since Mr W told them hed contacted 
the Ombudsman theyd not contacted him for repayment of the debts and had placed a hold 
on his account. 
In a separate later response Lowell said the email survey Mr W received didnt amount to 
marketing, as no product or service is advertised for sale. They said the email was sent to an 
address Mr W had previously used to confirm the account was his and opting out previously 
wouldnt prevent this kind of contact. They noted Mr W had been told again how to stop 
these emails, and hed followed the relevant instructions. This means he shouldnt receive 
any more contact like this. In relation to the phone call Lowell accepted their agent had made 
an error, and Mr W hadnt sworn at them as their agent suggested. Lowell offered to pay 
Mr W £75 compensation for this error.
Unhappy with this Mr W asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
ultimately felt Lowell werent required to do anything further.
Mr W didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mr Ws complaint in considerably less detail than he has. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it 
relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but 
merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This 
also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I can see Mr W knows this, but just for clarity Im only able to look into the actions of Lowell 
in relation to this complaint  I cant decide if L or O have or havent acted fairly.
I think though Mr W does need to understand the actions of L, and O, are separate from 
Lowell. When Lowell purchased Mr Ws debts, they didnt automatically take on responsibility 
for L or Os actions. I say this because I can see at times Mr W has referred to L and O as 
Lowells clients and is seemingly holding Lowell responsible for their actions which wont 
usually be correct.
I can see our service has considered a complaint against L  and our outcome here was that 
L should take the debt back from Lowell, but the default should remain as a fair reflection of 
how the account has been run. Mr W and L accepted this outcome. We also have a 
complaint against O, but that hasnt been assessed yet.
Failed to send him appropriate evidence to say theyd taken over the debts, and have used 
his data illegally
It's not uncommon for lenders to sell debts on to debt purchasers, who then ask debt 
collectors to contact consumers for repayment of the debt. Generally, debts are purchased in 
good faith, and Id usually expect any lender to make any debt purchaser aware if there is a 
dispute  as the debt purchaser simply wouldnt know if there was an issue. 
As Ive mentioned above, Ive seen the NoAs from when Lowell bought Mr Ws two different 
accounts. The letters from Lowell about the accounts with L and O both say they are now the 
owners of the accounts  and provide a link to Lowells website about how theyll use Mr Ws 
data.
My understanding of Mr W saying theyre using his data illegally is because theyre not the 
owners of the accounts  but, as far as I can see they are. So I cant say theyve done anything wrong in holding and using his data to fulfil their obligations for contacting him 
regarding the debts.
If Mr W has further, specific, concerns about how Lowell have used his data he can take 
them to the Information Commissioners Office, but I dont intend to uphold this element of 
Mr Ws complaint. 
Are contacting him, as hes got disputes over the two accounts hes purchased, and says 
theyre bullying and victimising him by affecting his health when he has a protected 
characteristic
I can see Mr W has reported his concerns about Lowells behaviour to the Police. As theyre 
the appropriate body to decide if a crime has been committed, I wont comment further on 
whether hes been cyberbullied or victimised as hes said.
My remit is to consider whether Lowell have treated Mr W fairly in their contacts with him  
taking into account what they know about his circumstances at the time.
Mr Ws first concern is that L and O werent allowed to sell his accounts with them to Lowell 
while there was an active complaint with our service. As Ive set out above, because this 
complaint is about Lowell I cant consider what L and O have or havent done  albeit one of 
our Investigators did decide L shouldnt have sold on the debt. But, I cant hold Lowell 
responsible for another companys actions.
After Lowell began contacting Mr W for repayment of the debts, I can see he began 
disputing them. From the records I have it seems Lowell took the actions Id expect. They 
stopped asking Mr W for repayment of the debts, spoke to L and O to determine if Mr W was 
the right person to contact and to ask for evidence of the accounts.
The usual evidence thats provided in these circumstances is a copy of the Consumer Credit 
Act (CCA) agreement taken out, plus something to evidence how the balance has accrued. 
I can see Lowell received the CCAs for both accounts, along with account statements which 
do show how the balances were accrued. I understand these were shared with Mr W so he 
should have a copy of them. But, in any event, Ive arranged for them to be sent to him along 
with this decision.
The CCAs and statements both show Mr Ws details. I know hes disputing if the debts are 
legitimate, but those are concerns better raised with L and O  because thats who the debts 
were accrued with. A debt collector such as Lowell only need to have a reasonable belief 
that the person theyre contacting is the correct party. Here, given the CCAs and statements 
both show Mr Ws details  plus theyve followed what Id expect them to do in disputing the 
accounts  I cant reasonably say Lowell would be acting unfairly in asking Mr W to repay 
the debts. Ive also seen that Mr W raised a dispute about the account with O with another 
Ombudsman scheme  and in that he seemed to accept that account was his with some of 
his comments. 
Lowell have said since Mr W raised his dispute, aside from replying to his complaint contacts 
through email and their live chat, and one letter from Lowells specialist support team 
because he told them about his health conditions, theyve not contacted him. Theyve 
explicitly said theyve not asked him for repayment of these accounts until weve resolved 
the matter.
Ive been through Lowells contact with Mr W in a significant amount of detail. There are a 
large amount of contacts where Mr W has contacted Lowell in the live chat  so I wont go through all of them. But having reviewed all of them Im satisfied Lowell have, at all times, 
tried to support Mr W with his concerns.
During these contacts Mr W variously asked for his phone numbers, email addresses and 
postal addresses to be removed  all of which Lowell looked to deal with for Mr W. I can see 
they also dealt sensitively with Mr Ws concerns and regularly reassured him, when he 
contacted them regarding the same issue that hed already complained about, it would be 
dealt with as part of the complaint.
On occasion there were some misunderstandings. But, given the amounts of contacts that 
were made I dont find this particularly unusual. Anytime Lowells agent did make an error  
such as not seeing Mr W had already provided some information they then asked for  they 
said sorry. Im satisfied thats a fair remedy for those issues.
Importantly though, what Ive not seen in any of the contacts with Lowell is that theyve 
asked him to repay the debts hes disputing after hes told them about the dispute. So, I dont 
think Lowell have done anything wrong on this point.
If Mr W has evidence of Lowell contacting him for repayment of the debts after hes told 
them hes disputing the accounts, he should provide this in response to this provisional 
decision for me to consider it. 
Have refused to remove the defaults for the two accounts
My understanding of the reasons Mr W wants the defaults for L and O removed is because 
he disputes the balances on them.
But, those are an issue for L and O separately to consider  and I can see Mr W has raised 
complaints about those issues. 
Lowell are collecting on a regulated debt for L  and for O its partially made up of a 
regulated debt  so I can look at whether theyve acted fairly in how theyre reporting the 
debts. As L and O recorded the defaults, and Lowell were simply just continuing to report 
them, I cant say they were doing anything wrong. 
As the debt with L has now been returned to them, and its expected for the default to 
remain, Id expect L to take over the reporting of this now  instead of Lowell.
Sent him a link to a marketing survey which he considers spam and has asked them not to 
do so previously
The email Mr W received says:
Here at Lowell were continuously looking at how we can help our customers manage their 
debt with us. Weve noticed youve logged into your Lowell account or registered a Lowell 
online account in the last 6 months. Wed like to ask you some questions about this.
The survey will only take a couple of minutes to complete, and the information you give us 
will be used to help us understand and support our customers better.
He says hes specifically asked them not to send marketing emails to him before and that 
him receiving this email made him feel very uncomfortable and caused him sleepless nights.
Lowell said this contact didnt amount to marketing as they werent advertising or selling 
anything  but Mr W had been told how to stop these from coming through again.Given Mr W had already told Lowell he didnt want to receive these kinds of emails, I can 
understand his frustration at receiving further emails. Particularly because, in the previous 
complaint he raised about this, he was told by Lowell With your comments in mind I have 
approached our Customer Experience team in order to prevent any of our customer 
feedback emails being sent to you in future. I also think, by this time, Lowell were aware, or 
should reasonably have been aware, Mr W was vulnerable given his contacts with them.
So, it would seem Lowells systems werent able to pick up that Mr W had previously had a 
marker placed against him that he didnt want customer feedback emails. As thats had an 
impact on Mr W in a negative way, Ill consider that at the end of my decision. 
Going forward though, Lowell have explained the only time Mr W should receive contact 
from their Customer Panel is if Mr W manually asks for a password reset. In those 
circumstances, they cant stop an email being sent to him. Ive mentioned this because Mr W 
has raised a further concern about receiving a Customer Panel email  but this appears to 
be a password reset. So, its important for Mr W to understand that if he asks for a password 
email reset to be done, itll come from the Customer Panel area of Lowell.
Ended a call with him saying he was swearing at them when he wasnt making him feel 
discriminated against
Similar to what Ive said above about Mr Ws concerns about a crime being committed I cant 
decide if he has been discriminated against as explained by our Investigator. If Mr W wants 
a judgment regarding that, hell need to ask a court to rule on this.
Lowell have accepted their agent made an error in terminating the call and offered to pay 
£75 in compensation to Mr W for this. So, again bearing in mind my fair and reasonable 
remit, Ill consider whether Im satisfied this is enough to put matters right.
The relevant call took place on 23 February 2022  and is nine seconds long.
The agent asks to take Mr Ws name. He replies with his name, but the agent misinterprets 
whats said. The agent replies if youre going to swear like that, Im going to end the call 
then. The agent does then end the call.
Lowell have confirmed the agent didnt follow their usual approach in a situation where its 
thought a customer is swearing at an agent by giving a warning first. Its clear the agent 
thought Mr W had sworn, and rather than making any effort to understand what was 
happening, follow Lowells own processes to clarify what had been said, and give a warning 
where appropriate  the agent just ended the call. 
I think its fair to say agents handling calls from customers may sometimes, sadly, be 
subjected to swearing. I can see why the agent thought Mr W had sworn because of the way 
Mr Ws name sounded on the call when it came through. I dont think Mr W did anything 
wrong, it was just unfortunate. So, I have a bit of sympathy for the agent when first taking the 
call. 
But the reason Lowell have processes in place is to prevent this kind of issue. What should 
have happened is the agent should have asked Mr W to clarify what he said, and then likely 
would have said sorry for thinking Mr W had sworn when he hadnt. I do though think this 
was an extremely unfortunate misunderstanding by Lowells agent rather than a deliberate 
action designed to offend Mr W. 
Regardless though, its the agent at fault for what happened here and Mr W was offended  
and I can see why. Because the agent didnt follow Lowells processes, Mr W has unfortunately been left feeling as though he was discriminated against. Again, Ill consider at 
the end whether the £75 compensation is fair.
Summary
From everything Ive seen Mr Ws concerns are that Lowell were asking him to repay a debt 
he says he was disputing so they shouldnt have done that. Ive noted Mr W has quoted 
rules from the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC).
Ive seen nothing to suggest Lowell were aware Mr W was in dispute over the two accounts 
when they purchased them  so I think Lowell bought the debts in good faith. And Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest theyve asked him to repay the debt after he told them the accounts 
were in dispute. Once he did dispute them, Lowell have acted correctly and fairly by asking 
the two companies about the debt  and have kept the matter on hold while our service has 
investigated. This is everything Id expect Lowell to do, and is in line with CONC, so I cant 
say they acted unfairly or incorrectly on these points as Ive seen nothing to say they have.
As things stand, the debt with L has been returned to that company  so Lowell wont 
contact Mr W regarding that debt again. But the debt with O remains outstanding and with 
Lowell who are now the legitimate legal owners of it. Id encourage Mr W to work with Lowell 
regarding any repayment of this debt. Ill also remind Lowell of their responsibility to treat 
Mr W positively and sympathetically  particularly given his vulnerabilities. Im pleased to see 
Lowell have referred Mr W to their specialist support team who deal with vulnerable 
consumers. 
I do though think on two occasions Mr W has been caused distress which could have been 
avoided. Those are the sending of the email, and the agent saying Mr W had sworn when he 
hadnt. So far Lowell have offered £75, but I dont think that goes far enough to recognise the 
distress caused to Mr W. To put things right I think a fairer amount would be £150.
Im aware Lowell said theyd send Mr W a cheque for £75, so if this has been cashed then 
they only need to send Mr W another £75  as Im only intending to require them to pay 
£150 in total.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lowells position was they didnt agree  but this was based on an unfortunate 
misunderstanding. After clarifying this, they didnt add anything further before the deadline.
Mr W provided a number of comments. Ive summarised them using my own words below:
When he brought his complaint to our service about L, Lowell passed the case over 
to their solicitors.
Regarding O he said he was entitled to go to court if he didnt agree with my 
decision. And that he wouldnt engage with Lowell regarding O until his complaint 
about O with our service has been resolved.
He didnt agree Lowell had tried to help him  saying Lowells solicitor had said illegal 
things, and Lowell had bullied him. 
Lowell had broken the law on human rights and tried to be selfish and rude to him. All 
the letters from Lowell had been forwarded to a friend and their manager who is an 
account manager for an investment bank. He added Lowell had broken the FCA 
policy on vulnerable people  saying the FCA had evidence Lowell have broken the 
rules but hes not allowed to discuss whats been said as its confidential information.On Lowells website hes provided a screenshot which says, You can make a one-off 
payment or quickly set up an affordable repayment plan and says this shows Lowell 
is harassing him by asking him to repay the debt. 
Finally  he said he had an eyewitness, who is his friend, that has seen what Lowell have 
done to him, and the eyewitness said Mr W hadnt done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lowell ultimately havent added anything further, Ill simply focus on Mr Ws comments.
The complaint against L, and the letter from Lowells solicitors
Mr W has referred to this complaint and said Lowells solicitors had said there was no case 
to answer.
As Ive set out above, the case against L is separate, so I wont get involved in anything L 
have or havent done. And, in reviewing that case, Ive found one letter from Lowells 
solicitors dated 15 February 2022. The letter appears to be responding to a threat from Mr W 
about suing Lowell. So, it seems the only reason Mr W received this letter, is because hed 
written to Lowell saying he was planning to take legal action against them. Because of that, I 
cant say Lowell have done anything wrong here.
The complaint against O, and my suggestion Mr W co-operate with Lowell regarding 
repayment of that debt
Ive seen the case against O hasnt been fully considered by our service at this point. And, 
ultimately, it is Mr Ws choice about whether he co-operates with Lowell regarding the debt 
or not. I have no power to make him do so. But, in making the finding Lowell are acting fairly 
in asking him to repay the debt, this means Lowell may choose to take further action 
following the outcome of this decision. 
Mr Ws comments that Lowell havent treated him fairly
I think the remainder of Mr Ws comments in response to my provisional decision can be 
categorised under this heading.
I do understand Mr Ws strength of feeling that theyve bullied him, but I simply cant agree. 
There is no evidence theyve done anything other than asking him to repay the debt before 
he told them about his concerns  which, as Ive set out in detail above, Im satisfied they 
were the legal owners at the time. In relation to Lowells solicitors letter if Mr W thinks 
theyve broken the law hed need to take that to the Police, as that isnt something I can 
consider.
Similarly, I cant consider if Lowell have broken the law on human rights. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest they have been selfish or rude to him  at all. As Ive said before, Mr W 
has made contact with Lowell on a lot of occasions, and each time they really have tried to 
help him. Ive also noted Mr Ws comments about the FCA having evidence of Lowell having 
broken the vulnerability rules  but without that evidence I cant take it into account. 
Regarding the website, what I think Mr W has provided a screenshot of is simply Lowells 
standard website showing the account. This is entirely different to Lowell contacting Mr W directly and asking him to repay a debt when they shouldnt have. Ive seen no evidence of 
this  and in response to my provisional decision Mr W hasnt provided any.
Finally, Ive noted Mr Ws eyewitness says he hasnt done anything wrong, and theyve seen 
what Lowell have done to him. But based on everything Ive seen, Lowell have treated Mr W 
fairly and reasonably in virtually all of the many contacts hes had with them.
There are those two occasions where they didnt  sending him a further email, and not 
following their processes when they thought Mr W had sworn. None of the information 
provided by either party has changed my thoughts on this, so I remain of the opinion £150 is 
a fair way of putting matters right.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and require Lowell Financial Ltd to pay Mr W a total of £150 
compensation. Lowell can deduct any monies already paid from this figure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman