DRN-4188391
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Bank Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank rejected his 
Chargeback and Section 75 claims for a deposit refund which he would like refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that Mr W cancelled his order for a new car after the 14-day 
cancellation period, as a result the merchant retained the £250 deposit paid. As I 
understand it Tesco Bank considered but didnt pursue. a Chargeback claim. Whilst 
we consider it good practice to raise a claim if there is reasonable chance of success 
Tesco Bank didnt have to do this.  Had it  done so the merchant might have 
successfully defended the claim. Tesco Bank also considered, but rejected, a Section 
75 claim for which there needs to be proof of misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Mr W hasnt made a case for misrepresentation for a claim under Section 75 and I 
havent seen any evidence that would support such a claim. In terms of a breach of 
contract, he says the contract he signed states if the contract is ended it will refund 
any sums  paid for the vehicle. However, that is qualified by  but we may deduct 
from that refund reasonable compensation for net costs we will incur because of the 
cancellation and to reflect the diminished value of the vehicle.  As the contract does 
allow for retention of funds I cant say a breach of contract applies here
I appreciate Mr Ws point that its Tesco Bank that referred to suggested overhead 
costs not the merchant. However, I think Tesco Bank made a reasonable point . Its 
one which I think the merchant may well have made had Tesco Bank put  a 
chargeback claim to it.
I also appreciate Mr W feels there is no loss as the merchant chose to go ahead with 
the order and to re sell the car on delivery. He feels any administration costs incurred 
in setting up the order would have been incurred by whoever then bought the car so 
its not fair to charge him for this. However, I think  there would have been some 
administration costs involved in setting up the order and deciding what to do once Mr 
W cancelled it after the 14-day cooling off period. The merchant may have tried to 
offset this by continuing with the order but there was no guarantee he could have 
sold the car on delivery at a higher cost . And the merchant would have incurred 
further administrative costs in selling the car to a new buyer. So, I do think some 
costs would have been incurred by the merchant. And, as the contract allows for a 
retention of funds for compensation I cant reasonably say Tesco Bank were wrong 
not to pursue a chargeback claim or to uphold a Section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman