DRN-1351160
The complaint
Mrs H complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance ('PPI') policy in 1994 in connection with a House of Fraser store card.
What happened
Mrs H complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1994. It was added to her 
store card account which she applied for in the store. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mrs H added, through her representative, that she was never likely to be made redundant; 
although her 9 months' sick pay was not as good as the PPI cover, the sick pay was 
adequate for her so she says she didn't need PPI; the benefit of the PPI did not outweigh the 
cost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs H's complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Axa made it clear the policy was an optional product. Axa hasn't 
produced a copy of Mrs H's credit application - and that is not surprising as these events 
happened a long time ago. However, Axa says that from store card applications used at 
around that time, it is likely there was a separate place for Mrs H to sign to say she wanted 
PPI. So I think the separate signature means Axa probably made it clear that Mrs H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out by signing for it  although I can 
understand why she may not be able to remember this.
I noted Mrs H was eligible to buy the policy so this does not provide a ground to uphold her 
complaint.
The policy wasn't recommended so Axa had to make sure Mrs H received enough 
information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong because she told us 
she would get full pay if she was on sick leave for six months, followed by half pay for 
another six months. Although this is a good employee benefit, the PPI could have lasted for longer than and in addition to her decreasing sick pay. It also looks like PPI was affordable 
at the time of the sale. So I dont think better information about the PPI cost and benefits 
would have put her off from taking out the cover.
Axa should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions). I don't 
know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mrs H was affected by the main 
exclusions. So - even if she'd been given a full list of the exclusions - I don't think it would 
have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and Mrs 
H was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman