DRN-1965500
The complaint
Mr K complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. The contract ended in September 2019.
Prior to returning the car, an inspection was carried out on 12 September 2019. This 
identified around £1,761 of damage. Following the inspection, Mr K said he would arrange 
for the damage to be repaired prior to returning the car.
The car was collected from Mr K on 25 September 2019. MBFs later asked Mr K to pay 
charges for damage.
Mr K disputed the charges. He said hed arranged for repairs before returning the car. MBFS 
requested evidence of the repairs. Mr K provided an invoice from the garage who had 
carried out the repairs.
MBFS said it wasnt able to accept the invoice as evidence that the repairs had been carried 
out. It said the alloys and the bumper were still scratched and not within vehicle returns 
standards.
l
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and brought this complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He looked at the photos and said all of the 
damage fell outside the guidelines for fair wear and tear.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the photos had been taken at the first inspection prior to the 
repairs being completed. He said there were no photos showing the condition of the car post 
repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr K must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in deciding whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
In this case, the car was inspected outside Mr Ks house on 12 September 2019. An 
inspection report including photos identified damage which went beyond acceptable fair 
wear and tear. This included damage to the alloy wheels, the doors, the quarter panels and 
the rear bumper.
I understand that Mr K was given the opportunity to carry out repairs to bring the car up to an 
acceptable standard. Mr K says he arranged for the car to be repaired at a sprayer he had 
used before. The agent acting for MBFS collected the car from the sprayer.
I can see that the car was collected on 26 September 2019. No inspection was carried out at 
the time. The car was taken to a defleet site on 8 October 2019 where it was inspected. The 
inspection records identified damage to the alloys, the roof, the bumper and the door.
Ive looked at a job card provided by MBFS which shows that after collection of the car (and 
after inspection at the defleet site), repairs were carried out to the alloys, the doors, the 
quarter panels and the rear bumper. On balance, Im satisfied that the repairs arranged by 
Mr K either didnt take place at all, or took place but werent completed to a reasonable 
standard. I say this because the repairs shown on the job card were to the same areas 
where damage was identified in the first inspection report. Based on what Ive seen from the 
first inspection report and the subsequent inspection report and the job card, Im satisfied 
that the damage charges have been fairly applied. 
I appreciate that Mr K says that he had work completed before the car was collected. Hes 
provided an invoice to support this. However, I can see that the invoice is dated several 
weeks after the car was returned to MBFS. On balance, I dont think the invoice is enough to 
persuade me that the work was carried out before the car was returned.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to uphold the complaint. I wont be asking MBFS 
to waive the damage charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman