DRN-2605052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA delayed dealing with their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mrs and Mrs S have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank account.         
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 4 November 2019, Mr and Mrs S boarded a cruise. On         
5 November 2019, Mr S was unwell and sought medical treatment. The doctor who 
treated Mr S on the ship diagnosed exacerbation of COPD, triggered by infection, and 
atrial fibrillation.       
On 6 November 2019, Mr and Mrs S disembarked and were taken to a hospital. Mrs S 
contacted IPA that day in order to make a claim. Mr S remained in the hospital until       
19 November 2019. On the evening of his discharge from hospital, IPA told                   
Mr and Mrs S that their claim wasnt covered because Mr S hadnt declared that he had 
COPD and the condition which led to the claim is directly related to his COPD. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that this was no doubt a very worrying time for Mr and Mrs S. Its clear and 
quite understandable that they have very strong feelings about this matter. Theyve provided 
detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and considered carefully. 
However, I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I 
consider the central issues, that is, whether IPA treated them unfairly and unreasonably in 
declining their claim and in communicating that decision to them and whether it should do 
more than its already done to put matters right.
 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I agree with the investigator that IPA was entitled to decline Mr S claim under the 
terms of the policy. Thats because Mr S didnt declare his COPD and the condition 
which led to the claim is directly or indirectly linked to Mr S COPD. That means that 
IPA is entitled to rely on an exclusion in the policy. I dont believe that Mr and Mrs S 
dispute that.
Mr and Mrs S contention is that IPA should have told them that it declined Mr S 
claim much sooner than it did. They say that would have given them the opportunity 
to avoid some of the costs by arranging a transfer to a public hospital or flying home.  
Mr and Mrs S first made the claim to IPA on 6 November 2019. IPA told                  
Mr and Mrs S that it declined their claim on 19 November 2019. I dont think that IPA 
was at fault in wanting to see Mr S medical records before assessing the claim. 
Thats because the medical information it received from Mr S treating doctors 
overseas are based in part on what Mr and Mrs S have said about Mr S medical 
conditions. IPA would wish to see Mr S medical history and the best source of that is 
his GP records. So, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs S that IPA should have made the 
decision about their claim no later than 8 November 2019, when it first had sight of a 
report from an overseas treating doctor.  
In response to Mr and Mrs S complaint, IPA acknowledged that it should have 
explained the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) process to them, said that it 
didnt provide Mr and Mrs S with updates whilst it was waiting for Mr S medical 
records and that there were some delays in it chasing some information. It offered 
compensation of £400. I think thats fair and reasonable. In reaching that view, Ive 
taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by IPAs errors. 
Mr and Mrs S want IPA to pay a proportion of Mr S medical costs. Mr S is 
responsible for the costs he incurs in having private treatment. However, if his 
treatment is eligible treatment, IPA pays the costs that are covered under his policy. 
Any costs not covered under the policy are Mr S responsibility. I dont think that it 
would be fair and reasonable to direct IPA to pay a proportion of Mr S medical costs 
in this case. IPA didnt direct Mr S to the private hospital. Also, its not clear to me that 
Mr S was well enough to be transferred to a public hospital or to return home at an 
early stage. In all the circumstances, I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable 
to direct IPA to contribute to Mr S costs.  
I think that IPA acted fairly in declining Mr S claim and that the compensation it has 
already offered in relation to its errors is fair and reasonable. 
 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman