DRN-3091840
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y had a holiday booked for April 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Just a few days later the 
government of the country that Mr and Mrs Y were due to visit closed all non-essential 
public spaces, including resorts like the one Mr and Mrs Y planned to visit. On 17 March 
2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. That advice remained in place until the date of Mr and Mrs Ys planned departure 
and so their travel provider cancelled their trip.
Mr and Mrs Y claimed on their travel insurance policy for costs which they were unable to 
recover from the travel provider which amounted to approximately £4600. URV declined the 
claim on the basis that there was no cover under the policy for a change in FCO advice. Mr 
and Mrs Y made a complaint but URV maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
As Mr and Mrs Y remained unhappy they made a complaint to our service. Mr Y said in his 
complaint to our service that hed also had to self-isolate as hed had symptoms of 
Covid-19.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. He 
explained that there was no cover if Mr and Mrs Y travelled, but also no cover if they 
cancelled. So, he didnt think it was fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint.
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said, in 
summary, that the policy wasnt priced to cover the risk of a change in FCO advice and 
that other policies offered that level of cover. They didnt think that the presence of the 
exclusion meant the claim should be covered.
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I set out the relevant policy terms and 
conditions and explained that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. In 
summary I said: 
The trip was cancelled due to a circumstances outside Mr and Mrs Ys control. But 
cancellation due to a change in FCO advice isnt a listed insured event under the 
policy terms.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation 
wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. However, in this case the relevant exclusions were referred to in the 
general summary of conditions and exclusions. And, it was also specifically 
highlighted in the cancellation section of the policy. So, I was satisfied that this was 
clearly and transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. 
It was up to Mr and Mrs Y to ensure they had the level of cover they required to meet 
their needs and it was likely theyd have been able to find another policy on the 
market which wouldve covered the situation they found themselves in. 
I had taken into account that Mr Y had said that hed needed to self-isolate. However, 
the claim form had been submitted on 19 March 2020 and the reason for 
cancellation was the closure of the resort. 
There were no reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept the 
claim. 
I asked Mr and Mrs Y and URV to let me know if they had anything further to add. Neither 
party added any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments in response to my provisional decision 
theres no reason for me to reach a different outcome. 
I remain satisfied that the policy terms did clearly and transparently set out the exclusions 
relating to changes in FCO advice. Mr and Mrs Y could have purchased alternative cover if 
this policy didnt meet their demands and needs and I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept the claim. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman