DRN-3043059
The complaint
Miss W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), have rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In or around June 2017, Miss W was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Miss W decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2018 Miss W made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. Miss W said:
P told her that the system would produce enough money to pay off the Shawbrook 
loan;
she told P that she would not be able to afford the loan repayments of £124.33 per 
month;
the first loan application was declined due to her income. P then asked if she had 
another source of income and Miss W explained that she received child tax credit. P 
passed this information on to Shawbrook and the application was then approved;
the first feed in tariff (FIT) payment was much lower than she was expecting so she 
contacted P. They sent someone round to her house who explained new information 
about the benefits of the panels which differed to what she had been initially told;
she struggled to keep up with the repayments and soon fell into arrears; and
her mental health had deteriorated due to the stressed caused by falling behind with 
her Shawbrook loan repayments.
In their final response letter in May 2018 Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it 
held on file, as well as information provided by P, they didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In 
summary, they said:
the total returns she could expect from the system were detailed on the contract. 
That set out that the estimated return in year one was £470.61. The loan repayments 
were clearly detailed as £124.33 a month (or £1,491.96 a year), so it was clear there 
would be a shortfall;
the point of sale paperwork had been emailed to Miss W and shed had a 14-day 
cooling off period to cancel the loan agreement; and
P hadnt upheld her concerns but it had offered her, as a gesture of goodwill, £1,500 
so that she could install a pigeon protection system  an offer Miss W hadnt 
accepted.
Unhappy with this response, Miss W referred her complaint to this service. She told us she 
had no money to meet her repayments, was just surviving and was struggling with her 
mental health because of this loan which was on her mind every day.
Having heard our investigators initial thoughts on their decision to lend to Miss W, 
Shawbrook said it wouldnt defend Miss Ws complaint that the system had been mis sold 
and that shed been lent to irresponsibly. So, Shawbrook made an offer to reduce the total 
amount payable by Miss W to equal the benefits that the system would provide over the 
original 10-year loan term. The effect of the offer would have been to reduce the total 
amount payable from the original £15,019.60 to £4,133.84. Taking into account the 
repayments already made by Miss W, this offer would have left her still owing £3,123.70.
Miss W rejected this offer as this would require her to keep making monthly repayments to 
Shawbrook which she could not afford. She also said she didnt trust Shawbrooks 
calculation of the benefits the system would produce over the 10-year period. She showed 
us a FIT account summary which confirms between June 2017 and March 2021 her FIT 
payments totalled £662.76.
Our investigators view
As Miss W didnt accept Shawbrooks offer one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. As Shawbrook had accepted Miss Ws complaint of misrepresentation and 
irresponsible lending, our investigator didnt comment on the sale. But she did say she 
thought the evidence backed up Miss Ws account of how the loan came to be approved on 
the second attempt when child tax credit had been added into the income calculation. On 
balance and given what Shawbrook had told her about how they consider state benefits 
related to children, the investigator agreed that Shawbrook shouldnt have approved the loan 
in the circumstances.
So, she agreed that Shawbrooks offer wasnt fair. She said this because the offer would 
mean Miss W would still have to find the means to repay a loan she should not have been 
lent. And as those repayments wouldnt be recouped from the system immediately, Miss W 
would be left struggling in the short term.
To put things right, our investigator thought that Shawbrook should offer Miss W the 
following options:
Option one  arrange and pay for the solar panels to be removed from the roof, 
unwind the agreement and give Miss W a refund of the payments shes made 
less any benefit shes received. If that leaves Miss W with an outstanding balance 
(because shes paid less than the total benefits shes received so far) Shawbrook 
should speak to Miss W and ensure that this is repaid at a rate she can afford; or
Option two  the panels stay installed on the roof and Shawbrook wipe off the 
outstanding balance meaning there is nothing further for Miss W to pay.
She also said Shawbrook should remove this loan from Miss Ws credit file regardless of 
which option is taken and pay her £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her by Shawbrook granting her, and pursuing her for, a loan she could not afford.
Miss W didnt agree with the investigators view. She said:If the panels remain on her roof they might become a problem in future, and she cant 
state enough that she cant afford to pay a penny for them;
£300 is not enough to reflect how Shawbrooks demands for payments have 
impacted her well-being  an impact her children have witnessed; and
Shed been led to believe the system would produce an income for her and any 
remedy should reflect that.
Shawbrook didnt respond to the investigators view, and the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
Having reviewed the file, and thinking about Miss Ws circumstances, I asked the 
investigator to let Shawbrook know I was minded to increase the amount of compensation Id 
ask them to pay in my final decision to £500.
Shawbrook, whilst agreeing that Miss W had been caused inconvenience, didnt agree that 
she should be awarded £500. They said theyd not inundated Miss W with calls chasing 
repayment, and only done what lending regulations required. They said theyd also refrained 
from passing the account over for debt collection whilst we were investigating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve Miss Ws 
complaint. This was based on the initial complaint made that the benefits of the system had 
been misrepresented to Miss W at the time she entered into the contract with P. As neither 
party disputes that the benefits of the system were misrepresented by P, I wont consider 
this as part of my decision.
Miss W also complained that she was lent to irresponsibly, and Shawbrook havent 
disagreed with what our investigator said about that. Shawbrook have also accepted that, 
there were two applications. And this fact supports Miss Ws version of events that after an 
initial application was declined, a second one was made using her child tax credit to increase 
her income.
Ive found that at the point of sale Miss W received an income from a pension totalling 
£708.33 per month and also £469.89 per month in child tax credit  these amounted to 
£14,138.64 annually. The loan application detailed her annual income as £15,000. I think 
this demonstrates that the application was approved based on the combined income from 
her pension and child tax credit. But the child tax credit wouldnt have been an income 
source for Miss W for the 10-year loan term due to the ages of her children at the date of 
sale. 
The fact that Miss W immediately struggled to keep up with her loan repayments and has 
only paid £875.98 towards the loan over four years is, I think, a further indication that the 
loan was unaffordable.
Overall, I find that Shawbrooks decision to lend to Miss W was flawed on this occasion, and 
the loan should not have been sold to her. Having reached this conclusion I agree that the offer Shawbrook made to settle this complaint is not a fair one.
Ive considered whether it would be fair to unwind the loan agreement and give Miss W a full 
refund of the payments shes made so far plus 8% simple interest. However, it is more 
difficult in a case like this where a system is installed at a property and is providing a 
financial benefit (albeit a far lower benefit than Miss W thought it would). So, I dont think 
putting things right is as simple as awarding Miss W a full refund.
The investigator has proposed that Shawbrook offers Miss W two options, and I agree that 
either of these would put Miss W in a fair position and would mean that she is not financially 
disadvantaged by the installation of the system.
The first option would mean that Miss W pays no more than the benefits shes received from 
the system over the past four years and until the date of removal, and that the system would 
be removed at no cost to her. If the benefits shes received exceed £875.98 she will have 
something left to pay. But Shawbrook must structure her repayment of any sum outstanding 
in a way thats affordable for her.
The second option would mean Miss W keeps a system that she no longer wants. But 
Shawbrook would be saved the expense of removing the system and Miss W will have paid 
only £875.98 towards it, with nothing further to pay.
In either case, whether she chooses option one or option two, there is no overall cost to her. 
By deciding to keep the panels, Im satisfied that Miss W would likely benefit from lower 
electricity bills and FIT payments going forward.
Miss W has explained that P told her the system would pay for itself and provide an income 
for her. Therefore, she would like compensation to reflect what she was promised at the 
point of sale. But our approach is to ensure that a consumer is not financially disadvantaged 
by a businesss mistake rather than making any promises made by Ps salesperson true. 
Therefore, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Shawbrook to offer compensation in 
line with the returns Miss W says P promised her.
Miss W has also expressed worries about problems with the system in the future and a 
problem with pigeons living underneath the panels. I think that both issues would be rectified 
if Miss W chose the first option which would involve Shawbrook removing the system from 
her roof.
Miss W doesnt think that the £300 compensation recommended by our investigator 
adequately recognises the impact this situation has had on her. Shes explained she has 
been caused significant stress by falling behind with her repayments and has had difficulty 
sleeping. She has also explained that she has received letters and phone calls from 
Shawbrook demanding payment which have, at times, pushed her over the edge.
I also think that Shawbrook had the opportunity to rectify this situation much sooner than it 
has, which has undoubtedly prolonged the distress that Miss W has been caused. 
Shawbrook have explained that they dont believe they contacted Miss W excessively about 
the repayment of the outstanding balance. They say theyve pursued this debt in accordance 
with the relevant regulations. However, I dont think the loan should have been sold to 
Miss W in the first place because of her financial situation. So, irrespective of whether 
Shawbrook did or did not take any of the further steps it views it was entitled to, and whether 
its actions were in line with its regulatory obligations, I think Shawbrook have caused Miss W 
avoidable distress.Whilst Ive not seen any evidence that Shawbrooks demands for payment were excessive, 
if the loan hadnt been sold to Miss W, she wouldnt have received any calls or arrears 
notices. And she also wouldnt have experienced any distress of not being able to meet her 
repayments. So, I still think that the amount of compensation should be increased to £500 to 
take into account the impact of what happened here on Miss W.
Putting things right
To put things right Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
Make the following offers to Miss W:
Option one  arrange and pay for the solar panels to be removed from the roof, 
unwind the agreement and give Miss W a refund of the payments shes made less 
any benefit shes received. If this leaves Miss W with an outstanding balance 
Shawbrook should speak with Miss W about an affordable repayment plan; or
Option two  the panels stay installed on the roof and Shawbrook wipe off the 
outstanding balance meaning there is nothing further for Miss W to pay.
Remove this loan from Miss Ws credit file regardless of which option is taken; and
Pay her £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman