DRN-3259284
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc incorrectly made the same transfer out 
of her bank account twice. 
What happened
Mrs S needed to make a payment of £4,000 to a family members bank account but was 
waiting for a new PIN to set up her telephone banking. NatWest said until her telephone 
banking was working again, she could write to a branch and request the transfer to be done. 
Mrs S therefore wrote to NatWest to request the transfer of funds. 
A few days later Mrs S received her new pin through the post and called NatWest to set up 
her telephone banking. Once it was set up, she asked if the payment shed written to 
NatWest about had been made and was told it hadnt. 
As the payment Mrs S had requested in writing hadnt been done, she made the payment 
over the phone. The advisor put a note on her account to make sure the written request for 
the payment wouldnt be actioned. Unfortunately, both payments were processed so Mrs S 
called NatWest to complain. 
NatWest apologised for the error and refunded the second payment back to Mrs S. They 
also apologised for the error and offered Mrs S £300 compensation. Mrs S didnt think this 
was fair and brought her complaint here. She said it had taken too long to sort her telephone 
banking out and the incorrect payment had caused her a lot of distress and inconvenience at 
a time she was already under a lot of pressure. She also said it had also resulted in a difficult 
conversation with the family member she had been transferring the money to. As they 
thought theyd been given twice as much as they had. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and found that while NatWest had made an 
error, he thought the compensation offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs S has also made a separate complaint regarding the charge for one of the 
payments made. As thats been considered under a different complaint, I havent considered 
it further here. 
I understand Mrs S is unhappy about how long it took to send a replacement PIN through the 
post to setup her telephone banking. Ive looked at this and I cant see NatWest did anything 
wrong in how it was sent or how long it took to arrive. Im therefore not persuaded NatWest 
did anything wrong when sending Mrs S the PIN to set up her telephone banking. 
Its not in dispute that NatWest made an error by carrying out the same transfer twice, after 
Mrs S had been assured that wouldnt happen. I therefore will be considering if NatWest 
have done enough to put things right. And Im satisfied they have. 
I say that because while NatWest made an error, I can see it put things right within a couple 
of days and offered Mrs S compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience cause. I understand Mrs S was going through a difficult time and NatWests 
error resulted in a difficult conversation with a family member. However, Im satisfied £300 
compensation takes Mrs Ss individual circumstances into account and compensates her for 
the additional unnecessary distress and inconvenience NatWest caused her.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mrs S was hoping for, and Im sorry to hear about how 
challenging it has been for her. But Im not going to tell NatWest to pay any more than it has.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plcs 
offer of £300 is fair and reasonable. National Westminster Bank Plc needs to pay Mrs S 
£300 for distress and inconvenience, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman