DRN-3773356
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc  trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) unfairly recorded a CIFAS marker in relation to an application he made for 
borrowing. 
What happened
Mr M attempted to purchase goods from a retailer using finance provided by Hitachi in May 
2020. Hitachi declined the application and recorded a CIFAS marker because it believed that 
Mr M had intentionally provided untrue information about his address history, meaning he 
wouldnt need to disclose former addresses which had adverse credit information linked to 
them.
This came to Mr Ms attention after he made a further application with both the same retailer 
and Hitachi in June 2021. 
In July 2021 Mr M complained to Hitachi because he didnt think the CIFAS marker had been 
applied fairly. Hitachi disagreed and declined to remove the marker.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He said the information hed provided in his 
application was correct. 
Our investigator disagreed. He said, in summary, evidence Mr M provided by way of his 
credit file, as well as his own testimony, was contradictory and demonstrated that hed likely 
lived at another address  one linked to adverse credit data  during the period in which he 
said hed lived at his current address. 
Our investigator concluded that Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware that the 
information hed provided was inaccurate. And, on balance, that the misinformation Mr M 
provided during his application was likely not an innocent mistake. They said that Hitachi had 
acted fairly by recording a CIFAS marker.
Mr M disagreed. He accepted that hed provided incorrect dates but said he had no intention 
to commit fraud. He said hed made an honest mistake and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on the matter.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint is about CIFAS information Hitachi recorded in relation to an application he 
made for regulated lending with it. Thats an activity we have the power to consider a 
complaint about.
The CIFAS marker Hitachi recorded on the National Fraud Database in relation to Mr Ms 
application was a false application marker. Its intended to represent situations whereby 
someone applies for a credit facility with one or more material falsehoods in the information 
provided. The information Mr M provided from CIFAS shows that Hitachi recorded the 
marker due to finding undisclosed addresses with adverse credit data.
In recording the marker, Hitachi isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr M is 
guilty of fraud or financial crime, but it has to show theres more than a mere suspicion. The 
relevant guidance says that to load a marker;
 - There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and] 
- The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Hitachi has shown that during the application process Mr M was asked to provide his current 
address and say how long hed lived there. Its shown that Mr M input information to show 
that hed lived at his current address for four years. So, its reasonable to interpret that Mr M 
ought reasonably to have known that represented that hed lived at his current address four 
years prior to his application  in other words, since May 2016.
Hitachi also told us that because of the time which Mr M had told it hed lived at his current 
address, its system wouldnt have required any information about former addresses. But it 
also said that it wouldve asked about former addresses if Mr M had entered a lesser time at 
his current address.
Mr Ms told us that he lived at a family address until 2013 and he then moved to another 
property where he stayed until mid-2017. Hes provided evidence which supports that. Mr M 
says he then moved to his current address, but he hasnt been consistent about when. He 
initially told our investigator it was sometime in 2018, and he later said it was sometime in 
2017.
Mr Ms provided a copy of his credit file. It shows that he was on the electoral register at his 
family home until 2017, at his former address until 2018 and at his current address from 
June 2019. So, it seems theres discrepancies between whats been said by Mr M and 
whats recorded on his credit file. In particular, regarding Mr Ms address between mid-2017 
and mid-2019. 
Mr Ms credit file shows he opened a number of credit facilities between May 2018 and 
January 2019. Three of those accounts defaulted. All of them were registered to the family 
home Mr M says he hadnt lived at since 2013. Despite this, Mr M told our investigator that in 
applying for those accounts he wouldve given the address hed been staying at. That would 
suggest that Mr M had been staying at his family home again between those dates. I note, 
however, he later said he might have applied for one of the accounts using the address his 
banking facilities had been registered to, rather than the address hed been living at.
Our investigator highlighted these discrepancies to Mr M. They said it appeared Mr M likely 
hadnt been living at his current address since 2017. I agree that the information weve been 
supplied with strongly indicates thats likely the case. Significantly, Mr M hasnt provided 
what Id consider to be persuasive evidence to demonstrate otherwise, despite being given 
ample opportunity to do so.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M ought reasonably to have known that hed provided 
inaccurate information regarding his address history during his application. Its clear that he 
hadnt lived at his current address for the time he told Hitachi he had. It also seems likely 
that hed lived at another address within the four years hed specified  one which featured a 
number of entries on his credit file with adverse credit data. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the information Mr M gave Hitachi during his application was 
a material falsehood. And, given the clarity of the question asked by Hitachi, I think that Mr M 
likely provided that information deliberately, knowing it wasnt true. So, I think that meets the required standard for a CIFAS marker to be registered and I therefore think that Hitachi has 
acted fairly by recording the marker.
Lastly, Im aware that Mr M has mentioned that he thinks Hitachi ought to have clarified 
matters with him before recording the marker. He also says it didnt tell him the marker had 
been recorded. Even though there wasnt an obligation for Hitachi to have done either of 
those things, I accept it might have been preferable for Hitachi to have asked Mr M for his 
version of events before recording the marker. I dont think it wouldve made much difference 
if it had done that, because I think theres sufficient evidence to say that Mr M knowingly and 
intentionally provided Hitachi with inaccurate information.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman