DRN-2888895
The complaint
Mr L and Miss S complain about months of delays and problems when they applied to 
National Westminster Bank Plc for a mortgage. They ask for compensation. 
What happened
Mr L and Miss S contacted NatWest in January 2020 about a mortgage to buy the property 
they were renting. The application was declined, but Mr L and Miss say they werent told 
this. They chased NatWest without a response. They made further applications during 2020 
which they say didnt progress due to errors by NatWest. 
Mr L and Miss S say they paid rent during this time, which could have gone towards a 
mortgage. And their landlord wanted to sell the property and this put pressure on them. Mr L 
and Miss S say this caused considerable upset, and Miss S sought medical help for her 
anxiety. 
NatWest offered to refund the valuation fee and pay £200 for the upset caused. 
Our investigator said NatWest declined Mr L and Miss Ss application and there was no 
guarantee that another lender would have offered Mr L and Miss S a mortgage if theyd 
known this sooner. But while they didnt have financial loss this did cause worry. Our 
investigator said NatWest should pay compensation of £400 for this.
Mr L and Miss S didnt agree. Mr L was confident theyd have successfully applied 
elsewhere and saved a years rent if NatWest had told them at the outset it wouldnt lend. He 
said £400 isnt enough for their loss and the effect this had on them.  
I asked Mr L for an update before issuing this decision in October 2021. He said another 
lender approved a mortgage in late 2020 but didnt make an offer because the residential 
part of the property failed the survey. He said theyre close to completing the purchase of the 
commercial part of the property. While they put the purchase of the residential part on hold 
they expect to get a mortgage for it without a problem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Miss S applied for a mortgage to buy the property that they live in and where Mr L 
runs his business. I appreciate how important this application was for them. Ive taken this 
into account when considering this complaint. First, that this increased the upset caused by 
problems with the application. And second that this would made it more likely that Mr L and 
Miss S would want to progress the application or to apply elsewhere if theyd known 
NatWest wouldnt lend. 
In fairness, I must also take into account that NatWest doesnt agree with everything Mr L 
and Miss S have said about what happened here. I should say that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
This matter went on for some months, and Mr L and Miss S have explained in detail the 
problems they encountered. I wont comment on each issue and event here, but I have read 
and considered everything theyve said. 
NatWest declined Mr L and Miss Ss application in January 2020. It says it tried to call 
Miss S, and when it couldnt reach her it sent a text on 9 January. Mr L and Miss S say they 
didnt receive the text. NatWest says it cant now provide evidence it sent the text.
Mr L and Miss S thought their application was progressing. They received a notice about the 
valuation (also on 9 January), and the valuation fee wasnt refunded. They exchanged 
emails with NatWests mortgage adviser in mid-January. However, they received no further 
contact from the adviser after this despite their efforts to contact him. Their application fee 
was refunded by mid-February 2020. 
The mortgage adviser said he didnt receive any contact from Mr L and Miss S. NatWest 
said while it didnt have evidence Mr L and Miss S had tried to contact the mortgage adviser 
without a response, it upheld this part of their complaint. 
Having received no contact from NatWest for several months, and having had the 
application fee refunded, I think Mr L and Miss S ought reasonably to have questioned 
whether their application was progressing. I do appreciate that the first National lockdown 
started in late March 2020 and they didnt chase the application during this time. 
Although NatWest declined Mr L and Miss Ss application in January 2020 this doesnt mean 
it couldnt fairly consider a new application some months later. A later application could be 
successful, for instance if their circumstances had changed. I dont think it was wrong for 
NatWest to allow Miss S and Mr L to make a new application. I wouldnt expect it to rely on 
the information provided in January  their financial circumstances might have changed. 
Appointments were made and cancelled, or cut short, through June to August 2020. The 
parties dispute the reasons for this. Mr L says they provided information and documents to 
NatWest which the mortgage advisers said they didnt have during their appointments. He 
says appointments had to be re-arranged due to errors by NatWest and to fit in with a 
mortgage advisers child care arrangements. NatWest says it needed self-assessment tax 
returns which werent available until the end of July 2020. It says it was right to pause the 
application when it became aware of possible issues with the way the property was 
constructed. On balance, I dont think all of these delays were due to errors by NatWest. 
However, NatWest accepts it was responsible for some of the delays and inconvenience 
caused to Mr L and Miss S during this time. 
Putting things right
The property Mr L and Miss S want to buy includes Mr Ls business premises as well as 
being their home. Their landlord wants to sell the property. I appreciate this was a stressful 
situation for them  especially with the wider circumstances related to the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr L and Miss S have told us how the delays with their mortgage application 
affected them. 
Mr L says they could have put the money they spent on rent towards a mortgage, if theyd 
been told in January they needed to apply elsewhere. However, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require NatWest to compensate them for their rental costs. I dont think I can 
reasonably find theyd have been able to apply for and complete a mortgage with another lender within a short time. Mr L and Miss S started applications to other lenders in late 2020 
and havent yet completed their purchase, even of part of the property, nearly a year later.
NatWest should have refunded the valuation fee in January 2020 when the application was 
declined. It offered to refund this with interest, which I think is fair.
I also think its fair for NatWest to pay compensation for the upset, trouble and worry the 
delays caused Mr L and Miss S. While I dont think all of the delays were due to errors by 
NatWest, Ive also taken into account the effect the delays had on Mr L and Miss S due to 
their particular situation. I think compensation of £400 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should:
refund the valuation fee with 8% simple interest from the date NatWest declined the 
application in January 2020 to the date of settlement*. 
Pay £400 to Mr L and Miss S.
*If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L and Miss S how much its taken off. It 
should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman