DRN-2175903
The complaint
Mr F has complained on behalf of his company, which I'll refer to as S, about Car Care Plan 
Limiteds (Car Care Plan) handling of his alloy wheel repair insurance policy. Car Care Plan 
is the administrator of this policy. 
What happened
S purchased an alloy wheel repair policy in December 2017. It was a three-year plan that 
was paid for in full from the beginning. In April 2020 S attempted to make a claim on the 
policy. However, Car Care Plan wrote to S to advise that the policy was no longer in place. 
Car Care Plan said that the underwriter of the policy had gone bankrupt, and the policy was 
no longer valid. Car Care Plan said it had written to S firstly in February and then in March 
2019 to explain next steps and what was required, but it hadnt received a reply. So, S was 
deemed to have opted out, and the policy was cancelled. Car Care Plan advised that S 
may still be eligible for a refund of the unused premium and it directed S to a specific website 
for further details. 
However, S says it never received the email in March 2019, so was unaware it had to reply. 
S said it had paid for a policy in full, and now had a valid claim that needed to be covered. 
So, S submitted a complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint said that 
based on the evidence available Car Care Plan hadnt done anything wrong.
However, S doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of the matter is the email that was sent on 26 March 2019. Car Care Plan say it 
was sent. But S says it was never received. As a service its not our role to determine why 
the email wasnt received. Our role is to determine whether Car Care Plan did anything 
wrong. And I dont think it did.
On 8 February 2019 S received an email from Car Care Plan which said that the underwriter 
of its alloy wheel repair policy had gone bankrupt. The email said that the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) was liaising with an alternative insurer, and that S would 
have new policy information in March. Car Care Plan advised that the policy was protected, 
and there was no need to do anything right now. S received this email and as advised didnt 
do anything further. 
On 26 March 2019 Car Care Plan sent another email. This email said that the intention was 
for the FSCS to facilitate alternative cover from 28 March 2019, and it asked the receiver of 
the email to confirm: 
1. You are not a commercial entity
2. You are a commercial entity, but have a turnover of under £1m per annum or
3. You are a commercial entity and have a turnover of £1m per annum.
Car Care Plan has sent us a screenshot of the above email that was sent on 26 March 2019, 
which shows us the email address this email was sent to. And the address on this 
screenshot matches the email address provided by S. Car Care Plan says the email was 
sent. And as there was no response before the deadline, S was deemed as opted out, and 
the policy was cancelled.
But S says it didnt receive this email. S has sent us copies of all the emails it says it has 
ever received from Car Care Plan. This includes the email from February 2019 and emails 
from April 2020. But theres no copy of the email from 26 March 2019. S says the screenshot 
of the email provided by the business is doctored and is not evidence the email was sent. S 
says it has provided clear evidence that the email wasnt received. It says theres no 
evidence of a read receipt and that Car Care Plan shouldve also sent a letter or contacted it 
by phone. S wants to know how it could receive previous emails but not this one. 
When an authorised insurer fails, under the Policyholder Protection Rules FSCS must 
compensate a UK eligible policyholder by facilitating the arrangement of an alternative policy 
or returning a percentage of the premium. 
FSCS works together with the managing agents of the policies and the insolvency 
practitioner of the failed insurer, to facilitate transfer of cover by paying return of premium 
compensation in a way that it could be used to purchase the new cover. The policyholder 
has an opt out period in which they could chose not to accept the new policy on offer and 
receive return of premium compensation direct instead. 
This is what happened here. The managing agent of the underwriter found an alternative 
provider for the clients of Car Care Plan, and FSCS facilitated the block transfer of cover by 
paying return of premium compensation for those policies to the alternative insurer. A notice 
was placed on FSCS website and all previously affected policyholders were sent an email 
giving an opt out of 30 days, the last of which had ended by 31st May 2019. If the 
policyholder chose to opt out, their return of premium compensation was not paid to the 
alternative insurer, and subject to FSCS eligibility rules the policyholder is entitled to receive 
that direct. In order to do so the policyholder must first submit a claim using the portal on the 
previous underwriters website. After 31st May 2019 there was no other provision for a 
transfer of policy cover.
Car Care Plan sent S an email to the correct email address, requesting confirmation of its 
turnover. When no response was received S was deemed to have opted out, once the time 
for a response had passed. The only option left available when this happens is for S to apply 
for a pro-rata refund via the bankrupt insurers website. There is no provision in place to 
retrospectively be placed on an alternative policy. 
I appreciate S says it never received the email. And I dont know what happened to this 
email. But I only have to be satisfied that the email was sent, and given the evidence 
provided I am. I understand S wouldve liked further contact via letter or telephone call, but if 
an email address is provided, I deem that sending an email is an acceptable method of 
contact. In this specific instance I can see that the correct email was used, and that S has 
received previous emails. It has even received emails since March 2019. There is nothing to 
indicate there was a problem with the email address, so Car Care Plan were entitled to use it 
as a method of contact. I appreciate S says it wasnt received, but Im satisfied it was sent 
and sent to the correct address, and thats where Car Care Plans responsibility for the 
correspondence ends.I appreciate S is going to be disappointed with the outcome in this final decision. But I cant 
see that Car Care Plan has done anything wrong. The fact that the timeframe to avail of the 
alternative insurer has ended is outside of Car Care Plans control. Its only responsibility was 
to communicate the next steps to its customers, which I believe it has done. Ss only option 
now is to submit a request on the previous underwriters website for a pro-rata refund. So, I 
wont be asking Car Care Plan to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman