DRN-2704287
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs C. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs C was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Mrs C has said the PPI was just included with the account, without her knowledge or 
consent. However, this did happen about 17 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember all the details from that long again. And I can see that the form 
does set out the PPI as a choice  and Mrs C has signed the PPI box. 
Its true that the AXA representative appears to have put a cross against that box, in the 
same way they have against the box for the overall signature and date for the credit 
agreement. So its possible Mrs C didnt properly read the form and just signed. But she did 
have a responsibility to check what she was signing, and the actual wording is clear and 
easy to understand, and does make it clear that she has a choice about taking the PPI.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI, in the sense of assessing all Mrs Cs 
circumstances and saying that the PPI was suitable for Mrs Cs individual needs. This 
means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for 
Mrs C to decide whether it was suitable for her needs. 
However AXA did need to give Mrs C clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs C. Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. I say 
this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. Also its not clear she had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit 
account for long, if she lost her income due to sickness or redundancy; and even if she did, 
she could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether or not Mrs C took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman