DRN-1599114
 
The complaint
Ms P is bringing a complaint to us about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited ("L&G") 
handled a claim made under her contents insurance policy. 
L&G's appointed agents handled Ms P's claim. To keep things simple, I will refer to both 
L&G and its agents as 'L&G', unless stated otherwise. 
What happened
Ms P had an escape of water at her home in 2018. She made a claim for a number of 
different items under her contents insurance policy. Within those items, Ms P claimed for 
damage caused to a luxury handbag. 
L&G looked at the handbag and decided it could be repaired by cleaning it. Ms P said 
L&G told her that the handbag would be cleaned to look as good as new. 
Ms P later received the handbag back from L&G after it had been cleaned. Ms P said the 
handbag had staining on it and some hairs inside, and so she didn't think it had been 
cleaned adequately. 
L&G agreed to take the handbag back for a further inspection. It said a stain was already 
present when the handbag was taken away initially and that it wasn't related to the claim. It 
also said the handbag showed signs of wear and tear. L&G said it cleaned the handbag a 
second time as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms P received the handbag back from L&G a second time and said the handles felt very oily 
and therefore didn't think it was usable. Ms P also said there were white markings on the 
handbag which she thinks was caused when the handbag was drying. 
L&G considered this but remained of the opinion that the handbag was restored to its pre-
claim condition, and the issues Ms P raised were due to wear and tear, and not related to 
the claim. So Ms P referred a complaint to this service for consideration. 
Our investigator carefully considered everything but didn't think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said he thought on balance that the staining was present prior to L&G taking the 
handbag and wasn't claim related. He said he thought L&G acted fairly and reasonably 
under the policy by restoring it rather than replacing it. This is because he didn't think Ms P 
had demonstrated that the handbag was beyond repair. 
Ms P disagreed with our investigator's opinion. She remained of the view that L&G should 
replace her handbag because she doesn't think it's been restored to a reasonable 
condition.  
As no resolution could be reached, the case has been passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I appreciate this 
will disappoint Ms P, I'm not upholding this complaint. I will now explain why. 
There's no issue taken that Ms P's policy provides her with cover for damaged contents as a 
result of an escape of water. The policy says 'We will at our option: replace as new; pay the 
cost to us of replacing as new; repair; or pay the cost to us to repair.' 
This means that L&G can decide how to settle specific items of damaged contents. We think 
this is fair and reasonable in principle providing an insurer can demonstrate it's applied the 
above term fairly. And in this case, I think L&G has. 
I've considered the photos taken by L&G of Ms P's handbag prior to it carrying out the 
cleaning, along with the inventory report showing its current condition. It's fair to say that the 
staining on the bag was present prior to L&G taking it to carry out cleaning. And I haven't 
been persuaded by Ms P that this stain is claim-related damage. 
Ms P thinks the white marks on the handles were caused during the time the handbag was 
drying after sustaining water damage. I appreciate what Ms P has told us but unfortunately 
I disagree. The photos taken of the handbag do show signs of wear and tear which is to be 
expected given Ms P said the handbag was over two years old when it was damaged by 
water. I appreciate Ms P said the handbag is of very good quality, which I don't doubt. But 
from the photos and the observation about the condition of the handbag, on balance I think 
there are clear signs of wear and tear. And so, I don't think this is claim-related damage that 
L&G are required to repair or replace under the policy. 
When Ms P received the handbag back a second time she said the handles felt oily and 
therefore could no longer use it. It's difficult for me to determine this aspect of Ms P's 
complaint without having the handbag physically present from the time she received it back. 
L&G said that no chemicals or oil-based substances were used to clean the handbag. 
However, and in any event, I haven't been persuaded by Ms P that L&G returned her 
handbag in an unreasonable condition that doesn't reflect its overall condition prior to the 
escape of water. 
Ms P felt she was misled by L&G when she said she was told that the handbag would be 
cleaned and look as good as new. Whilst I don't dispute Ms P may have been told this, her 
policy provides her cover to put her back in the position she would've been in had the loss 
not occurred. In this case, L&G considered it reasonable to clean the handbag to restore it 
back to the condition it was in prior to the water damage. And based on all the information 
available to me, I'm satisfied it's acted fairly and reasonably here. So I won't be requiring it to 
do anything else. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman