DRN-1831160
The complaint
Mr W complains that the (SIPP) fees he has been asked to pay by Suffolk Life Pensions 
Limited (Suffolk Life), are too high and should have been taken from his SIPP with them.
What happened
Towards the end of 2016, Mr W was informed that his SIPP would be transferred to 
Suffolk Life as his previous provider had gone into administration. When Suffolk Life wrote to 
him, they explained that administrative fees would be applied to his account once his policy 
had been transferred to them. They provided Mr W with the schedule of fees and their terms 
and conditions, which provided more detail. They also explained that as Mr W had an 
independent financial adviser (IFA) on the account, he should speak to them, if he wanted 
advice with reference to whether the Suffolk Life Master SIPP was right for him.
The transfer took place in December 2017 and Suffolk Life wrote to Mr W at this time. They 
explained the fees that would be applied to his SIPP account; explaining that due to his SIPP 
including investments that werent regulated (known as Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes  UCIS) there would be an additional UCIS fee. 
Mr W informed Suffolk Life (in December) that he wanted to transfer out. Suffolk Life sent the 
relevant transfer forms to him and explained that provided the discharge form was returned 
to them by March 2018, they wouldnt charge him a transfer out fee. Suffolk Life also 
contacted his IFA about this transfer out. They explained the options available to Mr W. 
Suffolk Life received no response from either Mr W or his IFA and so Mr Ws SIPP remained 
with them; and the transfer away from Suffolk Life was cancelled just over a year later, in 
February 2019. Suffolk Life communicated this to both Mr W and his IFA at the time and 
confirmed that annual fees would be taken in full.
In the same month, Suffolk Life wrote to Mr Ws IFA and explained that there were 
outstanding fees of £1,254.52 on Mr Ws SIPP, which didnt have sufficient funds available in 
order to settle the fees. This letter set out the ways Mr W could pay the outstanding fee. And 
explained that consideration should also be given to any associated charges that may apply 
to the option taken. In the months that followed, Suffolk Life sent chaser letters to Mr Ws 
IFA. And in October they wrote to Mr W.
Mr W then raised a complaint with Suffolk Life as he felt he hadnt been made aware of the 
fees.  
In their final response letter, Suffolk Life explained that they had corresponded with Mr W, 
informing him of the relevant fees. They included copies of their previous letters, including 
the annual statement they sent to Mr W in February 2018 and 2019. The latter of which 
showed the outstanding fee of £636.52 and the covering letter explained an additional £618 
was also due. They explained that as there is an IFA on the account, they sent copies of the 
statement to them also; to allow them to provide the necessary advice. 
Suffolk Life explained that they do not provide a service whereby they select investments for 
their clients to choose; and that their role wasnt to monitor investment performance for their 
clients.
Unhappy with this, as Mr W had assumed any fees associated with his SIPP, would have 
been taken from his SIPP; he brought his complaint to us. He also told us that he wasnt 
happy with the amount he had to pay, as he felt the fees Suffolk Life charged were too high.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that Suffolk Life neednt do 
anything further. They explained to Mr W that Suffolk Life had provided both his IFA and him 
with sufficient detail regarding the fees; and had been open about the associated SIPP 
account fees and the mix of investments it contained. They also explained that Suffolk Life 
didnt have the authority to sell any assets held within the SIPP and that it was also likely 
that the assets in the SIPP couldnt have been sold to cover the fees because they were 
illiquid. 
With regards to the fees themselves, our investigator explained that Suffolk Life had 
communicated this to them. 
Mr W disagrees with this outcome, so this has been passed to me for a final decision. He 
feels:
the fees are too high and disproportionate to the value of his SIPP; 
he hadnt understood that his fees werent being taken from his SIPP on an ongoing 
basis;
its unfair to request two years of fees now and expect them to be paid in cash; and
that we should contact his IFA with regards to this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint is about Suffolk Life, I cannot consider what the IFA did as part of my 
decision, unless it relates to Suffolk Lifes actions. Therefore, if Mr W feels his IFA failed to 
keep him informed or explain matters to him, this would be something hed need to take up 
with his IFA directly in the first instance. This final decision doesnt preclude Mr W from 
complaining to his IFA, if he chooses to do so.  
The fees Suffolk Life have charged Mr W
Mr W says that the fees he has been charged by Suffolk Life are too high and 
disproportionate to the value of his SIPP. Having looked at the SIPP schedule of fees, I can 
see theyre fixed and therefore unrelated to the SIPP value. The schedule was sent to Mr W 
in 2016 and Suffolk Life also recommended that he discuss their SIPP product with his IFA 
to make sure the product was suitable for him. 
I am therefore satisfied that Suffolk Life were transparent with regards to their pricing. They 
also acted reasonably in recommending Mr W consult his IFA on the matter of suitability as 
their role wasnt to provide advice. 
Mr Ws lack of understanding with regards to the accrual of fees owed
Mr W says that he hadnt understood that his fees werent being taken from his SIPP on an 
ongoing basis. However, I have seen copies of the annual statements Suffolk Life sent to 
him in February 2018 and 2019. The address on these statements match his address and so 
I think it is more likely than not, that they were delivered. The statements provided a clear breakdown of fees that had been applied to Mr Ws SIPP account and he was explicitly told 
to contact his IFA if he needed to talk through any aspect of his SIPP or the annual 
statement. If Mr W had read these, he ought to have known the fees were being taken on an 
ongoing basis. 
In particular, in the 2019 statement it clearly shows £618 was due in addition to the fees from 
the previous year of £636.52. Both statements clearly show how much cash was in Mr Ws 
SIPP and its evident that there were insufficient funds. Mr W had an IFA and it would have 
been their responsibility to explain these statements; in addition to explaining how and when 
the payments were to be made. 
The majority of Mr Ws SIPP was made up of invested funds and Suffolk Life were not 
authorised to disinvest to cover any outstanding fees owed to them. Consideration must also 
be given to the mix of investments contained in Mr Ws SIPP. As Mr W had UCIS 
investments, it is unlikely that they could have been sold in any case due to the illiquidity of 
them. 
As a result of there being insufficient funds available, Suffolk Life sent a letter detailing the 
amount owed to them. This was sent to both Mr W and his IFA. It should be noted that the 
IFA was specifically named on the SIPP account, so this was a reasonable course of action 
to take. 
Suffolk Life fulfilled its duty to make Mr W aware of the fees. If Mr W needed clarification 
about them, it would be reasonable to have expected him to discuss this with his IFA. It 
would have been their responsibility to make sure Mr W understood the fees and that he had 
insufficient cash in his SIPP to cover them.
Outstanding balance requested in cash
With regards to Suffolk Life requesting the outstanding balance in cash, this is in their terms 
and conditions. These set out how payment is to be made if there are insufficient funds in 
the SIPP.  Under section 18 (fees, charges and expenses of your SIPP), and specifically 
18.7 it states that in instances where there are insufficient cash funds to allow full payment, 
Suffolk Life may ask the policy holder to make these payments through alternative means. 
These alternative means were explicitly set out in Suffolk Lifes letters to Mr Ws IFA, sent in 
February, April, May and August 2019. The options were to disinvest; make a contribution; 
pension transfer; or settle fees externally (by cheque). They then wrote to Mr W directly in 
October 2019 and set out the same options. I can see that Suffolk Life gave Mr W plenty of 
opportunity to utilise the options available to him.   
As per their terms and conditions (18.7 (b)) as there had been no attempt to action one of 
the options presented, Suffolk Life then asked for the outstanding balance to be paid by 
Mr W directly. Further under 18.8 of the terms and conditions it says:
If for any reason the value of the investments held in respect of your SIPP is insufficient to 
meet any such costs or liabilities or scheme sanction charges payable or tax refunds due, 
you agree to pay to us on demand the amount of any such shortfall.
Mr W has commented that he feels these points were buried in detailed terms and 
conditions. I cannot agree that they were buried. There is a well labelled contents page and 
the title fees, charges and expenses of your SIPP is self-explanatory. A discussion around 
the fees and suitability of the product is the responsibility of the IFA and not Suffolk Life. 
Suffolk Life havent been able to collect the outstanding balance of the fees owed to them. 
This has therefore resulted in them accumulating. They have been transparent in their fees 
and have made reasonable attempts to contact both Mr W and his IFA. I cannot therefore agree that they have been unreasonable or unfair in asking Mr W to meet this payment 
himself and it is in line with their terms and conditions. 
In summary, I understand Mr W is likely to be disappointed with my decision. I was sorry to 
learn that he hadnt appreciated his fees were accumulating - I can see how this resulted in 
him feeling the fees were unfair. But I have to be fair to both parties and I can see that 
Suffolk Life provided the relevant information to Mr W. Therefore, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I will not be asking Suffolk Life to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman