DRN-3617511
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice Grove Pension Solutions Limited gave to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr M to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ms.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)1, or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr M was concerned about what his employers announcement meant for the security of his 
Pension. He sought information from a financial adviser who, in July 2017, referred him to 
Grove to advise him about his pension options. 
Grove gathered information about Mr Ms entitlement under his current DB scheme and 
obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. It completed a fact-find with Mr M and an 
assessment of his risk appetite. It concluded the advice process in November 2017. 
Amongst other things, in the meantime, it noted that:
Mr M was 40 years old. (This was actually incorrect as Mr M turned 39 during the 
advice process).
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £379,600.
It would pay him a projected yearly pension of £28,108 at age 65 or tax free cash 
(TFC) of £124,188 and a reduced pension of £18,628.
The growth rates required (the critical yields) to match those sums from a personal 
pension were 6.77% and 5.92% respectively.
He was living with his fiance (they married during the period when Grove was 
gathering evidence).
Mr M had two dependent children from his first marriage, ages 12 and 8 and also a 
stepdaughter age 6.
1 The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes. It pays compensation to members of 
eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of 
the original schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme.
He was employed and earning £47,000 a year. He had a share in the former 
matrimonial home where his ex-wife lived and he could expect to received £7,500 
from its sale once his children were no longer dependent.
Mr Ms fiance was earning £34,000 a year and would have her own income from a 
DB pension in retirement.
He had £3,000 savings in a building society, and a potential inheritance of 
£100,000.
He would require an income in retirement of around £20,000 a year.
He had a medium attitude to risk.
He was contributing to his employers group money purchase pension scheme. Mr M 
paid contributions of 6% and his employer paid 10%.
As part of a divorce agreement Mr Ms ex-wife had an entitlement to 24% of his 
pension.
In October 2017, the provider of the personal pension, O, that Grove was considering 
advising he transfer his pension to gave Mr M an illustration of what his pension could be 
worth on transfer. That said that the total amount transferred and invested would be 
£288,496 before it made a deduction of £4,884 for Groves fee. It gave projections for what 
Mr Ms personal pension would be worth at age 60 based on three levels of growth  as 
required by the regulator  and after adjustment for charges and allowing for inflation at 
2.5% as follows:
Rate Percentage Pot value
Low -1.4% £148,000
Mid 1.61% £258,000
High 4.62% £443,000
In November 2017, after speaking with Mr M, Grove sent him its report setting out its 
recommendations to Mr M and the reasons for those. Such reports are commonly referred to 
as suitability reports, so Ill use that term in this decision. It recommended Mr M transfer his 
DB benefits to the personal pension with O. Its report set out some of the risks that Mr M 
would be taking by transferring, including that he could be worse off as a result. 
Amongst other things Grove noted that Mr Ms principal retirement objectives were:
To break all ties with his former employer as he had concerns about their viability.
Improving death benefits before retirement.
To be able to withdraw TFC and/or income flexibly from age 55.
The suitability report said that Mr M definitely wanted to transfer his pension. He was 
concerned that it might move to the PPF and he would receive reduced benefits as a result. 
So, for peace of mind he wanted his own personal pension. Grove also noted that Mr M 
wanted to retire at 58 and then maybe work part-time in a less physically taxing job.
Grove explained to Mr M that if his personal pension grew at the mid-level and he lived to his 
life expectancy of 84, then he could be £63,000 worse off in terms of total pension payment. 
But, if the personal pension grew at the high rate of 4.62% then he could be £273,000 better 
off than remaining in the DB scheme. It said that Mr M was aware that he might not be better 
off by transferring and that wasn't the reason he wanted to transfer. Grove noted that Mr M 
was prepared to lose out in the long run. It set out some of the advantages and 
disadvantages of transferring and explained why it had recommended Os product. 
In 2021 Mr M complained to Grove. He said he didnt think its advice to transfer his pension 
was suitable for him. Grove replied that it didnt think it had done anything wrong.Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Groves advice was suitable for Mr M. Amongst other things he said that given that the 
critical yield was higher than the discount rate  which I explain below  Mr M would be 
worse off by transferring. Our investigator said Grove should pay Mr M compensation 
including £300 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Grove didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other 
things it said that our investigator hadn't acknowledged the unknowns with the BSPS2 in 
particular with regard to early retirement. It said that the comparison between critical yield 
and discount rate our investigator had referred to wasnt an appropriate measure when 
considering the suitability of its advice. It added that there were a number of good reasons 
for Mr M to transfer. And given the term to retirement there was an opportunity for Mr M to 
increase his benefits, while moving the pension away from his employer and giving him the 
flexibility he wanted. 
Our investigator wasnt minded to change his assessment of the complaint. So he referred it 
for an ombudsmans consideration. 
Since then Grove commissioned a consultancy firm (the consultant) to conduct a technical 
analysis of the advice. In a detailed report the consultant provided his view on the merits of 
Groves advice as well as providing various cashflow models to support his conclusions. In 
brief he felt that the transfer was viable as the CETV was generous and it allowed Mr M to 
meet his objectives, particularly of retiring early, and said that Mr M was better off as a 
result.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in responding to it, Mr M, Grove and the consultant have made 
many detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
matters at the heart of Mr Ms complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ms best 
interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Uncertainty and distrust
Grove noted that Mr Ms key objective for considering transferring his pension was because 
he wanted to break all ties with his employer. Groves also pointed out that, at the time that it 
gave its advice, there were still a number of unknowns around the BSPS2.
Im aware that many BSPS members like Mr M had serious concerns about their employers 
attitude towards their pension pots. The situation was evolving after the BSPS closed in 
March 2017. There was also some widespread trepidation about what moving pensions to 
the PPF meant for members. Its also well known that this was a period of uncertainty for 
people like Mr M. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and ultimately the requirement for suitable advice.
I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme. And its clear that Mr Ms concerns of that nature were a primary motivating factor 
in considering transferring his pension away from the influence of his employer. Indeed its 
notable that Mr M said that transferring was to give him peace of mind rather than to 
necessarily make him better off. So he might well have been leaning towards transferring his 
pension when he sought advice. But Grove was tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of all the available options. And in 
order to recommend that Mr M should transfer out of his DB scheme, Grove needed to be 
able to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in his best interests.
When Mr M approached Grove there was still the possibility that his pension could move to 
the PPF. But, by the time Grove gave its advice, it was then known that it was more likely 
than not that the BSPS2 would be established, even if all of its benefits weren't known.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of the RAA had been agreed. Under the 
announced plans, Mr Ms employer agreed to set up and sponsor the BSPS2, subject to 
certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied. The Pensions Regulator 
approved the RAA on 11 August 2017. Subsequently on 28 August 2017  before Grove 
provided its advice  the BSPS administrators provided scheme members, including Mr M, 
with an important update in respect of BSPS transfer values. The update said an expected 
payment into the BSPS of £550 million by Mr Ms employer, as part of its agreement with 
The Pension Regulator, was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. The 
confirmation that Mr Ms employer had made the payment referred to was announced on 
11 September 2017. Around two months before Grove sent Mr M its suitability report.So, while entry into the PPF was still a possibility, I think Grove should have explained to 
Mr M that this was unlikely to be his only option and taken the necessary steps, including 
analysis within it's advice of the relevant benefits of the BSPS2. But its suitability report 
makes almost no mention of the BSPS2. And I've seen no evidence that Grove sought to 
reassure Mr M that his employer and the BSPS trustees were not one and the same thing. 
So he didnt need to transfer his DB benefits away from the BSPS2 because of concerns 
over the actions of his employers treatment of pension pots. And as such, once established, 
it would be the trustees rather than his employer that would make the key decisions about 
the BSPS2. So, in order to fully advise Mr M I think Grove needed to make it clear that , 
moving forward, his employers would have very little influence over the future of BSPS2. 
And as such his concerns about his employers actions wasnt a genuine reason to transfer 
his pension. But it didnt do that. 
Groves advice process and the financial viability of a transfer
Grove conducted a fact-find in which it gathered information about Mr Ms circumstances 
and objectives. Also, as was required by the regulator, it obtained a TVAS report. That gives 
comparisons and critical yields showing what Mr M might receive from his BSPS scheme 
against what he might receive from the O personal pension. But I've noted that there are a 
number of omissions from that TVAS.
Importantly Mr M had a pension sharing order as part of his divorce settlement which entitled 
his ex-wife to 24% of his pension funds. And that sum would need to be paid to his ex-wife 
on transfer. That reduced the amount Mr M would receive from transferring his DB pension 
from an initial CETV of £379,600 to £288,496. But the TVAS doesnt at any point amend its 
figures to adjust for this reduced sum. Instead it assumes that Mr M would invest the full 
CETV of £379,600 in his personal pension, and that investment would then grow from there. 
But, in reality, given that he was required to share 24% of that sum with his ex-wife, his initial 
investment would be £91,104 lower. In those circumstances I dont find the figures in the 
TVAS reliable.
In addition, I think its worth noting that while compiling the fact find with Mr M, Grove made a 
mistake as to his date of birth. In effect it recorded that Mr M was born two years before his 
actual birthday. So, for the rest of its advice, it assumed that Mr M was two years older than 
he was. 
Further, Mr M had said that he would like to take early retirement at age 58. And Grove said 
its recommendation would allow him the flexibility to achieve that aim. But it provided very 
little analysis in its suitability report of how he would achieve that. Neither did it provide a 
comparison of what Mr M might receive from the different pension sources at that age. The 
suitability report quotes the figures setting out what he might be entitled to at age 60 from his 
personal pension as similar to those provided in O's illustration, depending on its growth 
rate. And given Groves mistake as to Mr Ms date of birth, those figures actually equate to 
Mr M being 58, although neither O nor Grove was aware of that. But, in any event, neither 
the TVAS nor the suitability report provided any analysis or comparison about what Mr M 
could expect to receive from the DB schemes or the PPF if he chose to retire early. And in 
order to ensure that he had all the information he needed to make an informed decision, that 
was something that I think Grove should have provided. 
Thats particularly the case as the PPF was known to provide more generous benefits for 
those retiring earlier than the BSPS, particularly where TFC was taken  at least in the short 
term. But Grove didnt bring that to Mr Ms attention. And given the gaps in its advice, I dont 
think Grove communicated with Mr M in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. So I 
don't think it gave him enough information on which he could reach a fully informed opinion 
of what was in his best interests. That said, I've noted that Grove did go to some lengths to spell out to Mr M some of the risks 
inherent with a transfer of this nature. In particular it made it clear that there was no 
guarantee that a personal pension would make him better off. That was something that the 
regulator required Grove to do. But identifying risks and bringing disadvantages of a course 
of action to a consumers attention, is not the same as clearly explaining why transferring 
was not in Mr Ms best interests. 
Grove said the relevant critical yield at age 65 for Mr M taking TFC and a reduced pension 
from the BSPS was 5.92%. Our investigator noted that the relevant discount rate was 4.6%. 
Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the 
future. We find it a useful tool to establish whether an investment is likely to match or exceed 
the required growth rates to make a DB transfer financially viable. And our investigator 
noted that as the discount rate was lower than the critical yield, then the investment was 
unlikely to match the DB benefits. 
Groves argued that a comparison between the discount rate and the critical yield isn't an 
appropriate measure. In other cases, I would say that a comparison between those two 
measures is a useful indicator of whether or not an investment is likely to grow at the 
required rate. 
However, in this instance Grove only ever calculated the critical yield based on Mr Ms full 
pension pot of £379,600, rather than the reduce sum of £288,496. And it only based those 
on BSPS figures. But Mr M had no entitlement to the BSPS sum, he either had to choose to 
move his pension to the BSPS2 or the PPF. So those critical yields are unlikely to be 
relevant. I note that the consultant calculated the relevant yield figures to match the likely 
benefits from the BSPS2 (he referred to these as being annuity yields) using the correct 
CETV and date of birth. He did so both for the investments being reduced by only product 
charges or also with an ongoing adviser charge. And, as Mr M was paying an adviser 
charge, I've only shown that one below
Age Full pension TFC of and a
reduced pension
58 6.57% 6.09%
65 5.80% 5.47%
The regulator also published projection rates which it required pension providers to use 
when giving illustrations of likely future pension entitlements. Those projected rates were: 
2% low, 5% mid and 8% high. So, even without considering the relevant discount rate 
Mr Ms investment would have had to perform consistently above the mid-level to match the 
benefits equivalent to those he would be giving up by retiring. But the regulators projection 
rates are before considering the effects of charges and inflation, both of which will reduce 
the value of the investment in real terms.
O produced an illustration for what Mr Ms pension might be worth at age 60 in October 
2017. However, as O used an incorrect date of birth for Mr M then in reality its illustration is 
what Mr Ms pension pot might be worth at age 58. O adjusted its figures to show the effects 
of adviser and product charges together with inflation on Mr Ms investment. Ive shown that 
below.
Rate Percentage Pot value
Low -1.4% £148,000Mid 1.61% £258,000
High 4.62% £443,000
So, far from showing a generous growth in the value of Mr Ms pension, Os illustration 
indicates that unless his pension grew at the high level, after 19 years the investments would 
actually show a loss in real terms.
The consultant has also provided a table of what he refers to as drawdown yields, which I 
believe is his calculation of the growth rates required if Mr M were to take income by way of 
drawdown from his personal pension. Hes assumed Mr M would draw down the same level 
of the BSPS2 from retirement, at ages 58 and 65, until Mr Ms death between ages 85 and 
100. Those yields range from 3.15% to 4.94%. So, assuming Mr Ms investments did 
perform at the mid-level the regulator projected then Mr M could achieve an income broadly 
similar to that he would achieve from remaining in BSPS2. However, if the investment 
performed at the lower level then he would be worse off. Also, there would be no guaranteed 
spouses income for his wife on his death. And as Mr M was due to remarry, I think that 
wouldve been an important benefit to him.
In any event there would be little point in Mr M giving up the almost entirely risk-free benefits 
available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve a similar level of benefits outside the 
scheme. I appreciate that Mr M was a considerable time away from retirement; so he did 
have a reasonable period to allow his investments to grow. And, I acknowledge that the 
time-frame involved also gave him some capacity to absorb investment losses  as it might 
allow the markets to recover in the event of a crash. But unless Mr Ms personal pension 
performed consistently at the mid-level or higher, in real terms he was likely to be worse off 
by transferring out of his DB scheme. 
Further, if Mr Ms investments suffered significant losses or a period of sustained poor 
performance, there was the possibility that he would deplete his funds earlier than 
anticipated. In contrast the BSPS2 benefit would last him for the rest of his life. So Im not 
persuaded that it was financially viable for Mr M to transfer out of the DB scheme. And, for 
that reason alone, I don't think it was in his best interests for Grove to recommend that he do 
so. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. And 
Grove has argued that, as a result of its recommendation, Mr M could achieve his other 
objectives. So I've gone on to consider whether it has clearly demonstrated that the advice 
to transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
When doing so Ive been mindful that Groves role was to find out what Mr Ms wants and 
needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr M wanted without appropriate 
analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its recommendation 
was in his best interests.
Flexibility and early retirement 
Grove said that by transferring Mr M could enjoy flexible access to his pension income and it 
would allow him to retire early. But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr M 
needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in 
retirement.
As I've said above Groves suitability report contains very little in the way of analysis to show 
exactly how Mr M could achieve early retirement at age 58. It doesnt have any cashflow 
models showing how Mr M drawing down from the pension might reduce his fund over time. 
But it does give figures showing what he might receive at age 60 (actually age 58) from his personal pension depending on the level of returns. Its not entirely clear to me where Grove 
got those figures from as they don't exactly match any I can find elsewhere in the papers its 
given us. Although there are very similar (but not identical) figures in Os illustration. But in 
that case the illustration was for Mr M taking his pension by way of an annuity rather than by 
drawing it down. But, given that those are the figures Grove included in its suitability report, 
so were the figures Mr M had to rely on, I've shown those below:. 
Growth level Low Mid High 
Fund value £148,000 £258,000 £443,000
Full yearly pension £4,120 £9,980 £22,600
Or TFC of and a
reduced pension o£37,100
£3,090£64,600
£7,480£111,000
£16,900
Mr M had told Grove that, in todays prices he would need £20,000 a year income in 
retirement. So, the figures at the low and mid-level above are unlikely to have supported 
that. But, putting those figures aside, if he drew down £20,000 each year (without adjustment 
for inflation) and his personal pension grew at the mid-level, based on the figures above, that 
would likely last him for around 13 years or so before being depleted. But, although those 
were the figures which Grove presented to Mr M they dont give the full picture. For example 
they dont factor in Mr Ms income from his money purchase pension.
At the time of Groves advice Mr M and his employer had recently begun contributing to a 
group money purchase pension scheme. The contributions were around 16% a year of 
Mr Ms salary which in 2017 would be £7,520. And, if the contributions continued at that level 
without ever changing or increasing, and without factoring in any growth, the fund could be 
worth around £142,000 by the time he reached 58. I appreciate that Mr M couldnt guarantee 
that he would stay in the same job until retirement. But if Mr M had moved on it was likely 
hed have sought another job and continued paying into a pension. And that sum accrued 
could help sustain Mr Ms income levels for a further seven years or so, based on an income 
of £20,000 a year. This is a simplistic model, which doesn't allow for increases in 
contributions, fund growth or the effects of inflation. But it demonstrates that if Mr Ms 
investments didnt perform consistently well he faced the very real prospect of depleting his 
pension fund before his life expectancy which, in 2017, was 84.
Ill add that the consultant produced cashflow models which show that Mr M could retire at 
58 by transferring out of the DB scheme and retaining his desired level of income long past 
his life expectancy. The consultants models are adjusted for inflation and factor in fees, but 
they also assume a year-on-year growth in the personal pension of 4.5%. So the models 
dont show what would happen if the personal pension grew at a lower level nor are they 
stress tested to allow for any periods of poor investment performance. So I don't think they 
paint a complete picture of the likely future scenarios that Mr M could be facing. I also think 
its worth pointing out that the models weren't available to Mr M at the time Grove gave its 
advice in order to enable him to make an informed decision. Instead the consultants report 
is something Groves commissioned five years later in order to defend its position. 
The consultants models also show that, after including income from Mr Ms money purchase 
scheme, he could have retired at age 58 by remaining in the BSPS2 and taking his benefits 
from that early, if that is what hed wanted to do. And if hed chosen that route then he 
wouldnt have had to rely on the vagaries of investment performance to ensure that he could 
meet his income need. Instead his income would have grown year-on-year in line with 
indexation, regardless of the performance of the markets. But Grove didnt make this clear to 
Mr M at the time.Further, I've noted that, Mr M told Grove that while he would like to retire at age 58 he might 
at that point decide to work part time, perhaps in another job. So, I think Mr M most likely 
realised, that, while early retirement was something that would be nice to do, it wasnt 
necessarily essential for him. Many people would like to retire early. But, for most, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. As a result, when faced with that prospect 
at an early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue 
working to support their current and future lifestyle options. And thats seems to be a more 
likely prospect for Mr M. But theres no evidence that Grove seriously challenged Mr Ms 
objective of retirement at age 58 and questioned how realistic that was for him. So I dont 
think it met its obligations to challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
At the time of Groves advice Mr M was still 19 years away from 58. So he had no need to 
make an urgent decision to transfer out of his DB scheme as he could have opted to move 
into the BSPS2. And, if he still felt that he wanted to retire when he reached 58, and thought 
that the income from the BSPS2 wasnt enough for his needs at that time, he could have 
considered transferring his DB benefits to another scheme at that point. But that wasnt a 
decision he needed to make when he was still only 39 years old. But it doesn't appear that 
Grove put that option to him. 
The consultant said that the CETV at the time of Groves advice was generous and was 
likely to reduce if Mr M deferred transferring. One of the key differences between the BSPS2 
and its predecessor was that the indexation levels weren't as generous in the BSPS2. And 
that lower indexation might well have led, in real terms, to a reduced CETV at a later date 
than that offered at the time of the advice. But I don't think that the prospect of a lower CETV 
at some point in the future was reason to give up DB benefits at the time that Grove gave its 
advice. As by doing so Mr M would be taking a risk with his pension he didnt need to take. 
And its notable that this wasnt an argument that Grove made at the time to support the 
suitability of its recommendation.
Further, the consultant said that deferring consideration of a transfer until nearer the 
preferred retirement date is akin to a saver not beginning pension contributions until eventual 
retirement. But given that Mr M already held deferred benefits in a DB scheme, that is plainly 
inaccurate. By remaining in the DB scheme Mr M could look forward to receiving a 
guaranteed income, even if that was at a reduced rate from the PPF, at a date in the future. 
So he had in effect already accrued a significant pension pot. Thats not the same as the 
consultant suggests  as someone not contributing anything to a pension until nearer their 
retirement, as they would not have any pot of any nature to draw an income from. 
I recognise that, at the time of Groves advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although 
I think the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the 
scheme operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr M had opted into the 
BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he would have moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 
65 Mr M would have been entitled to a pension of around £22,000 a year from the PPF. This 
was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it 
would have been substantially lower such that it should have made a difference to Groves 
recommendation. And Mr M would also have had an income from his money purchase 
pension to draw on until his state pension became payable. So, I think Mr M could have met 
his income needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move 
with it to the PPF.
For completeness, I note that Mr M told Grove that he would like to be in a position to pay off 
his mortgage at the time he retired. The evidence on the file that Grove has given us is 
somewhat confusing about the status of Mr Ms mortgage. It says that his mortgage 
payments are £400 a month but that the mortgage is actually on his ex-wifes house. But theres also information on file which shows that  as part of the divorce settlement  Mr M 
was no longer responsible for paying the mortgage on that property. Also, in the consultants 
report he said that Mr M bought a property in October 2017 for £167,000 but that the details 
of Mr Ms actual mortgage aren't held on file. I dont know where the consultant found the 
information about Mr Ms house purchase from, as its not mentioned anywhere in the 
papers Grove gave to us. So I can only assume that the consultant had access to evidence 
Grove hasn't provided us with. But I've further noted that the consultant had calculated that 
Mr M would, most likely, have been able to pay off a mortgage on a property at age 58, 
whether he transferred from the scheme or took the benefits from BSPS2. So it appears that, 
Mr M had no need to transfer his DB benefits in order to achieve that goal.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 if he decided to take early retirement. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests 
for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need.
Death benefits
 
One of Mr Ms key objectives when discussing the possibility of a transfer with Grove was to 
improve the death benefits payable before retirement. Death benefits are an emotive subject 
and of course when asked most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when 
they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an 
attractive feature to Mr M. Thats because whatever was left within Mr Ms personal pension 
at the date of his death would be passed on to his wife and children. And, if that happened 
before his retirement then that would likely be a significant sum. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family 
after death. But in transferring out of his DB scheme Mr M was essentially giving up a 
guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum 
for his wife and family that they may not need for many years to come. 
Further, Mr M was 39 years old at the time of the advice and he was in good health. So, he 
had no pressing need to consider a death benefit provision before he retired. But, if he 
genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment returns, 
I think Grove could have explored life insurance with him. Mr M already had a significant 
death in service benefit through his employer which would have been worth around 
£188,000. But if he wanted to improve on that position then he could have taken extra cover 
out on a whole of life basis. But theres no evidence Grove discussed this with him.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Ive 
noted that Grove did point out to Mr M that, in the short term, death benefits from a personal 
pension might be more generous but that, in the longer term the death benefits available 
from the DB scheme could be more beneficial for his wife and family. And this was 
something Mr M needed to think about. But it didn't stress to Mr M that differing death 
benefits were not a good reason to transfer out of the DB scheme, so doing so wasnt in his 
best interests.
Groves suitability report says that, if Mr M died before retirement, his DB scheme would pay 
his new wife a lump sum of £43,173. But I think that figure would need to be adjusted to 
allow for the 24% payable to Mr Ms ex-wife as part of the pension sharing order. That would 
reduce the lump sum payable to around £32,800. But the DB scheme would also pay Mr Ms 
new wife a spouses pension equivalent to 50% of whatever Mr Ms pension entitlement was 
at that time. And that pension would be index linked and would be payable for the rest of her life. And I think Grove could have done more to make the value of these benefits clear to 
Mr M. Further, the amounts available to Mr Ms family from a personal pension would be 
dependent on investment performance, And as I've indicated above, if the fund didnt 
perform well or suffered losses, then there would be less available as a death benefit.
Further, the fund would reduce as Mr M drew down money from it. And if Mr M drew down 
heavily from it in the early years of his retirement, then those deductions would reduce the 
lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. And the fund would continue to deplete 
unless left untouched. 
It follows that I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Grove wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Grove gave to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Grove should have advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Grove's 
advice. Ive noted that Mr M believed that transferring out of the DB scheme would give him 
peace of mind given his concerns about his employers actions with regard to the pension 
scheme. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M would have insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Groves advice if it had clearly explained that 
the scheme trustees and his employer were not one and the same. And that the future of the 
pensions scheme was in the process of being taken out of the employers hands. Further, 
Mr M was an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if Grove had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Grove should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
available to Mr M under the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for comparison purposes. 
Thats because I dont think Mr Ms desire to retire at age 58 was a concrete plan, it was 
more of a nice to have that I think he wouldve likely reconsidered as he got older.
Also, as Groves unsuitable advice has been a source of distress and inconvenience for 
Mr M I think it should pay him £300 to address that. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdfIn this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. Hes chosen not 
to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG 17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Grove may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Grove should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
Grove should pay it directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Grove receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further Grove must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Grove to pay Mr M.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Grove to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition Grove should pay Mr M £300 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused him.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr M any interest as 
set out above on the sum of £160,000. If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award 
becomes binding on Grove Pension Solutions Limited.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M. My 
recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman