DRN-3291365
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund up to around 580 transactions, with a 
total value of up to around £13,500, which she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs J had an account with Santander. In May 2019, Mrs J told Santander shed noticed a 
large number of card transactions on her account which she didnt recognise. These 
transactions had taken place between around October 2018 and May 2019 and appeared to 
have been made through another business to a number of different named accounts.
Mrs J said she didnt have an account with this other business  and so it was impossible for 
her to have agreed to these transactions. But Santander didnt agree to refund these 
payments.
Our investigator looked at this, and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. During our 
investigation, it emerged that the disputed payments were made through an account in the 
name of her daughter, who Ill call D. We asked Mrs J and D about this. It seems Mrs J had 
given D her card details to make payments online. The investigator said that this meant Mrs 
J had given permission for her card to be used to fund the payments from Ds account. The 
investigator noted that some transactions appeared to have been refunded. And in view of 
the time over which the transactions had taken place, the investigator wasnt persuaded 
these transactions were completed by an unknown third party  the investigator thought it 
was more likely that the transactions were made either by Mrs J, D, or by someone else who 
had permission to use Ds payment account.
Mrs J doesnt agree. She accepts that a few transactions were made for her, with her 
permission. But she doesnt agree that the other transactions were made by her or through 
Ds account. She also thinks Santander could have done more to protect her, as she says 
the transactions were unusual. D has also told us shed had difficulties getting the other 
business to look into things for her.
As Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
These payments were made from Mrs Js current account using her card details. So the 
relevant regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
These provide that a payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by a payer 
only if the payer has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction or the 
execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment transaction forms part.
Consent is given in the form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the 
payer and the payment service provider  that is, when the payer uses the card details to 
make an online transaction.
And where the payer didnt authorise the payment, then the payment service provider will 
normally need to refund that payment to the payer.
With this in mind, the main question Ive considered is whether Mrs J authorised these 
payments.
Ive first looked at what happened.
Based on what Ive seen, the disputed payments were made through an account in Ds 
name with another business. Weve checked with the other business, which has told us the 
account was registered in Ds name using Ds email address. Its also sent us details of 
some of the individual transactions made through Ds account from 11 May 2019 onwards. I 
see the payees for these transactions match the payees shown on Mrs Js statements from 
Santander during this period. And so Im satisfied that all the disputed transactions took 
place through Ds account.
Weve asked Mrs J and D about this. I note that initially Mrs J told us she couldnt have 
made these transactions as she didnt have her own email address or her own account with 
the other business. But Mrs J and D have now confirmed that although Mrs J doesnt have 
her own email address she sometimes buys things online using either D or Mrs Js 
husbands online accounts. And Mrs J has now confirmed that at one point she used Ds 
account with the other business to buy goods online.
Santander has also sent us its records of what happened. This showed that the first 
transaction took place in October 2018. The information from Santander shows that at this 
point the card number and verification code on the back of the card were entered correctly  
and Mrs Js address was verified. Shortly after this, the card was used to make a payment. 
Based on the description, it looks like this was to purchase some goods. That evening, there 
was a further transaction  based on the everything else Ive seen it seems likely this was to 
a personal account of a user of the other business. And in the days and months that followed 
there were a large number of what appear to mainly have been transfers to personal 
accounts in the names of a number of other users.
Ive considered the possibility that these transactions were carried out by an unknown third 
party. But the payments were made through Ds account  and continued for several 
months. So if anyone else had made these payments, they were running the risk not just that 
itd be discovered by Mrs J, but also that D would find out. I see that around 30 of the 
payments appear to have been to buy clothes and other goods and services - and at least 
four of these transactions were refunded into Mrs Js account. For these reasons, I dont 
think it was likely that an unknown third party made these transactions.
With this in mind, I think its most likely that Mrs J gave D her card details to make a 
purchase online, and then D then added that information to her account with the other 
business. But as Mrs Js card was now registered to Ds account, it meant further 
transactions could take place using her card details.
Ive next gone on to consider if Mrs J can fairly be treated as having authorised these 
transactions.
Mrs J can give someone else authority to use her card. And this isnt limited to transactions 
for which shed given her express permission. Where a payer gives someone else permission to use their card details  so it looks like theyre making the transaction  this will 
be treated as apparent authority to make the payment.
This means that by allowing her card details to be added to Ds account, Mrs J can be 
treated as having authorised the transactions through Ds account. As Ive concluded that 
Mrs J should be treated as having authorised these transactions, it follows that Santander 
doesnt need to refund them.
Mrs J thinks Santander should have realised these transactions were suspicious  and Ive 
thought about that. I recognise that, in total, these transactions added up to a large amount. 
But the individual transactions were very small, on average around £20 per transaction. 
They took place over several months. And Mrs J received at least two statements during this 
period. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Santander ought to have realised these 
transactions were suspicious.
So while I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs J, Im not going to tell Santander to 
refund these transactions. If D thinks the payments were made from her account with the 
other business without her permission, she should raise this in the first instance with the 
other business.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman