DRN-3656648
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halfiax) wont refund her for a 
transaction she says she didnt make.
What happened
Mrs Z holds a current account with Halifax. She contacted the bank to let them know that 
she didnt recognise a payment of £2,950 that had left her account. This payment had left 
her overdrawn and incurring charges.
The bank looked into what happened but didnt think they should be held liable. As part of 
their investigation Mrs Z confirmed she had not shared her online banking details or device 
with anyone, either on purpose or by accident. They said the payment had been made using 
Mrs Zs mobile device, and from a known IP address. On that basis they couldnt see how 
anyone else had made the transaction. 
Unhappy with this answer Mrs Z referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at it, but didnt think it should be upheld. He said Mrs Z had confirmed 
the phone was in her possession at the time of the transaction, and the technical evidence 
supported that the transfer was made using this device. He also thought it unusual that 
Halifax texted Mrs Z about the transaction, but she didnt contact them until two days 
afterwards to dispute it. Overall, he thought it more likely than not Mrs Z carried out the 
transaction herself, and as such Halifax shouldnt be held liable for it.
Mrs Z disagreed, saying that the person who took the money is unknown to her, and she had 
never made any transaction to this person before. She said the bank had failed to show her 
that shed done the transaction. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to answer is whether I think its more likely than not Mrs Z 
consented to the payment leaving her account or not. Generally a bank will be liable for 
transactions that a consumer hasnt consented to, but the consumer will be responsible if 
they have agreed to a payment.
In Mrs Zs case Ive concluded thats more likely than not the payment was consented to by 
her. I appreciate shell find this disappointing, but I say this for the following reasons:
The technical evidence clearly shows that this payment was initiated using the known 
device associated with the account. 
This device had been registered to the account for at least a month before the 
disputed transaction.
The device had been used to make regular payments that Mrs Z hasnt disputed.
Mrs Z hasnt offered up any explanation about how someone other than her could 
have accessed her device at this time. 
Shes said it wasnt working, but we can see from the technical evidence that it was 
working enough to carry out the disputed transaction.
The amount of money taken had only recently been transferred into the account. So, 
if Mrs Zs device was accessed by a third-party it would seem incredibly lucky that 
there were funds available at the time.
Ultimately there isnt a reasonable explanation how some unknown third party could have 
carried out the transaction without Mrs Zs knowledge. Its more likely than not the 
transaction was made either by her, or someone with her consent. On that basis, its not 
unreasonable for Halifax to decline to refund her. And as the account was left overdrawn, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to charge for this accordingly.
While I can appreciate Mrs Z will be disappointed, but I dont see Halifax have been 
unreasonable here. Because of this Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman