DRN-4266661
The complaint
Ms G and Mr H are unhappy with the service received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) during a branch visit.
What happened
Ms G and Mr H attended a branch of NatWest to carry out a transaction. Theyre unhappy 
that they werent allowed to do so. They also say that the staff member assisting them was 
initially rude and spoke loudly. And later swore in their presence, crumpled some paperwork, 
and walked away. Ms G and Mr M then left the branch. 
NatWest looked into Ms G and Mr Hs concerns. It said Ms G didnt have her debit card with 
her to complete the transaction she wanted to make. And even though Mr H subsequently 
presented his debit card, because of their perceived aggressive behaviour, the member of 
staff declined to interact with them further. NatWest also says the staff member didnt swear 
but it agrees that they did walk away. 
Whilst NatWest says this was a reasonable response, given interactions between Miss and 
Mr H and the staff member, it agreed that Ms G and Mr H hadnt received the level of service 
expected. It apologised, offered Ms G and Mr H £50 compensation, and sent a bunch of 
flowers. It also says its provided feedback to the branch and staff member concerned.
Unhappy, Ms G and Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
didnt think NatWest had to do anything more to put things right so didnt uphold Ms G and 
Mr Hs complaint. They disagree and would like £500 compensation. 
So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that NatWest didnt retain CCTV footage of the incident in question. Whilst 
there may not have been any sound, this was relevant evidence as to what happened on the 
day. And although we have the branch managers account of what they were told by staff 
members present that day, the Financial Ombudsman Service hasnt been provided with 
written statements of those members of staff setting out their version of events. 
However, Im satisfied I dont need to make findings about what happened in branch that 
day. That includes whether the staff member assisting Ms G and Mr H swore in their 
presence before walking away and whether they acted fairly and reasonably by not allowing 
Ms G and Mr H to carry out the transaction they wanted to make.
Thats because Im satisfied that even if Ms G and Mr Hs account is accurate, I think what 
NatWest has done to put things right is fair and reasonable. Its offered Ms G and Mr H £50 
and sent a bunch of flowers. I think that fairly reflects any distress of having a staff member 
swearing in their presence and walking away. And the inconvenience of having to 
subsequently attend another branch to complete the transaction.
Ms G and Mr H have also said they would like to be compensated for the time and cost in 
having to attend another branch of NatWest because they dont want to use the branch 
where the incident took place. I dont think its fair and reasonable for them to receive 
compensation for this. NatWest has said that feedback has been given to the branch and the 
staff member. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms G or Mr H would receive unfair treatment 
if they attended the branch in question again. But if that does happen, they are free to raise 
a further complaint to NatWest in future. 
I know Ms G and Mr H will be disappointed but for reasons set out above, I dont think 
NatWest is required to do anything more to put things right in this case. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt need to do anything more to put things right. I dont 
uphold Ms G and Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman