DRN-3961952
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc showed an incorrect message for an inactive 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) when she tried to deposit into her ISA.
What happened
Ms G says that she has tried several times to put her full ISA allowance into her HSBC ISA 
this tax year and last tax year, but an online error message states that she has maximised 
her ISA allowance. She said that she moves money around several times with her accounts, 
so she assumed she had already paid money into the account, but she found out the error 
message is incorrect, and the account was actually inactive, despite her trying to use it. She 
says as a result of this, she has lost out in interest over two tax years. She said that HSBC 
must change the error message as she and others will make the wrong financial decisions. 
Ms G made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. They said that they explain in the terms and 
conditions of the product that if she didnt subscribe into the ISA in a tax year, it becomes 
inactive. They said their records show that she last paid into the ISA on 11 October 2019. 
HSBC said that they wrote to Ms G on 1 August 2020 and 25 September 2020 to explain her 
loyalty rate would expire and her account would become inactive if she didnt pay anything in 
that tax year, and as no funds were paid in, the account became dormant. Ms G brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Gs complaint. He said that as no further payments were 
made to the ISA after 11 October 2019, HSBC sent her two letters regarding the loyalty rate 
ending and the need to credit her ISA in order for the account to remain active. If she didnt 
pay into the accounts then the ISA rules meant the ISA would become inactive. He said Ms 
G wouldve needed to have reactivated her ISA in any case and she should have reasonably 
been aware of this fact. 
Ms G asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she has many accounts 
inside and outside of HSBC including non-cash ISAs, therefore she relies on 
communications from her bank being accurate. She said that she hadnt been able to get 
into the account detail as it didnt show the detail online, otherwise it would have been 
obvious to her that no deposit had been made, but she says she would have paid money 
into the account if the error message wasnt present. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Ms G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what they 
should display on their error messages. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Ms G has said about her relying on communications from HSBC being 
accurate. HSBC sent Ms G communication dated 1 August 2020. This communication was 
clear that if Ms G didnt make a payment into her HSBC ISA during a tax year, her account 
would become inactive. It says this means youll need to make a new application in the next 
tax year before making any further payments. HSBC followed this up on a further 
communication on 25 September 2020. So Im persuaded that Ms G should have been 
reasonably aware that she wouldnt be able to transfer any money into this account when 
she hadnt transferred any money into the account since 11 October 2019.
The start of the message which HSBC displayed to Ms G when she tried to transfer funds 
into the account when it was inactive started sorry we are unable to proceed with your 
request. This would be correct as the account was inactive as it had been previously 
communicated to her. Although the rest of the message reads the amount youve entered 
exceeds your maximum subscription for the current tax year, Im not persuaded that this 
would mean the inactive status had changed from when HSBC sent her communication 
about this. As the account was inactive then her subscription for that account would have 
been £0 so it appears that any figure she entered into the box to deposit in that account 
would have brought up that message. 
The onus would be on Ms G to be aware of what she had transferred into an ISA and be 
aware of the communication that HSBC had previously sent her about this regardless of her 
having several accounts that she transfers in and out from. Ms G did not regularly pay into 
this ISA for a prolonged period of time even when the account was active. It appears she 
would have had until 5 April 2021 to make a payment into this account to keep it active (the 
2020-2021 tax year). So it appears she had until 5 April 2021 to make a payment into the 
account to keep it active. But when she didnt make a payment into the account by then, the 
account became inactive. Ms G contacted HSBC about the issue in the 2022-2023 tax year 
so she would have been able to maximise her ISA contribution for this tax year. Ms G has 
since not contributed to the HSBC ISA and she has transferred this account to a third party 
provider.
Ive considered what Ms G has said about her not being able to get into the account detail 
online, otherwise it would have been obvious to her that no deposit had been made. But it 
would be reasonable to expect her to contact HSBC if she had any doubt about what had or 
hadnt been paid into the ISA. HSBCs ISA terms and conditions also show that If you dont 
pay money into your account in a whole tax year, youll need to reactivate the account to pay 
money into it in the next tax years. Even after she couldnt pay into the account when she 
first tried, she should have been aware at the beginning of the following tax year that she 
hadnt paid anything into her HSBC ISA, even if she had forgotten the content of the 
communication that HSBC sent her about the account being dormant. But it appears she 
didnt contact HSBC until November 2022 about this. It follows I dont require HSBC to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman