DRN-3876563
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Plc closed his accounts with them, and converted the 
balance held in EUR to GBP without his consent. This has led to accounts with other banks 
being closed. Hed like to know the reason why his accounts were closed.
What happened
Mr B held accounts with HSBC UK, including a current account and an account in EUR. In 
July 2021 HSBC carried out a review and blocked the accounts. They wrote to him in August 
to say that they would be closing his accounts in 60 days. Mr B raised a complaint, but 
HSBC responded to say theyd closed his accounts as per the terms of the account.
However, Mr Bs account didnt close, and in December HSBC wrote to say the accounts 
wouldnt close after all. But in February 2022 HSBC attempted to contact Mr B by letter, 
which were returned undelivered. They sent further messages through HSBCs secure 
messaging service, saying they had taken the decision to close his accounts, and asking for 
an up-to-date address. When they received no response, they closed Mr Bs account on 29 
March 2022. They converted the funds held in EUR to GBP during the closure process and 
said Mr B could collect these.
Mr B discovered that the accounts had been closed in April 2022, and complained about 
this, saying that hed lost out on the exchange rate, and also that the closure of the HSBC 
account had prompted the closure of several other accounts he held with HSBC in other 
countries. HSBC offered Mr B £300 compensation to address any difference in the exchange 
rate, and to review the final amount again if there is a difference when received. But they 
said the decision to close the account was final. 
Unhappy with this Mr B referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what happened but felt what HSBC had offered was fair. They said HSBC were entitled 
to review the account, and that HSBC had then decided to close the account in line with the 
terms. They accepted there may have been some confusion over the notice given, but this 
didnt invalidate the closure notice. They said any issues with HSBC banks abroad would 
have to be dealt with them directly. But they felt the offer from HSBC to make up for any 
shortfall in the exchange rate was in line with what they would have recommended.
Mr B disagreed, saying he understood HSBC have a right to terminate the account, but that 
this shouldnt be done on unreasonable, illogical or discriminatory grounds. He said he had 
been blacklisted without being informed of the reasons, so had to continue pursuing the 
complaint.
This didnt change the investigators mind, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
After a review of complete file, I let HSBC know it would be reasonable for them to ensure 
Mr B didnt lose out on the value of his EUR. They agreed to refund the full EUR amount to 
him as final settlement of the complaint. 
This was put to Mr B, and while he accepted this to cover the EUR amount, he said his main 
complaint related to the blacklisting by HSBC that has led to his accounts in other countries 
being closed. He wished to understand the reasons for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that what HSBC have now offered to do is a fair resolution to 
the complaint.
Mr B has accepted that HSBC can close his accounts but would like to know more about the 
reasons. Its right that HSBC have a right to choose who they provide accounts to, just as 
Mr B has a right to choose to no longer bank with them. Often a closure isnt for a single 
specific reason and may be for a number of different reasons. I think its natural that Mr B 
would like to know more. But HSBC arent under any particular obligation to give detailed 
reasons to him. In this case, theyve declined to discuss this any further, and that isnt 
unreasonable. 
Having reviewed the evidence available, Ive not seen anything to suggest that the reason 
HSBC closed Mr Bs account was discriminatory, or in any way illogical, or mistaken. Ive 
considered everything Mr B has sent us in regard to his accounts, and businesses. But Im 
satisfied HSBC have exercised their legitimate commercial judgement in deciding to no 
longer offer Mr B an account. So, Im satisfied the closure itself was reasonable.
Ive considered the manner in which HSBC closed Mr Bs accounts. They sent the notice 
that his accounts were to be closed, along with a request for an up-to-date address, through 
their secure messaging system. I see that as an appropriate way to attempt to contact him, 
considering they had post returned to them.
The terms of Mr Bs account say they can close the account with two months notice  but in 
this case the notification of closure was sent on 10 February 2022, but without detailing the 
date the account would be closed. The closure took place on 29 March, which is slightly less 
than the two months the terms suggest. 
Im not satisfied they have stuck to the terms of the account here. But Im also mindful that it 
doesnt appear Mr B noticed the account was closed until after two months had passed. So, 
in any case had the correct notice period been given, Im not persuaded it would have made 
any difference. HSBC had already made the decision to close the account, and it doesnt 
appear Mr B saw the notice in any event.
Mr B has also said that because of this closure his accounts with other banks have been 
closed. These other banks are outside the territorial jurisdiction of our service, so Ive no 
power to consider their actions, or ask them to justify why they did this. Its not also 
something I can reasonably hold HSBC in the UK responsible for, although given the close 
links with the international banks they may well have anticipated this. But Ive found that it 
was reasonable for HSBC in the UK to close Mr Bs accounts in any event and wouldnt 
expect them to change this decision based on subsequent actions by the international 
banks.
While its right that HSBC can close Mr Bs accounts, its reasonable that he shouldnt lose 
out on the value of his EUR funds held. Both parties have now agreed that its right that Mr B 
get the value of the EUR held with them as EUR, and HSBC will ensure this happens when 
the funds are transferred. I find this is a fair way to resolve this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint HSBC Bank UK Plc must return the 
amounts held in EUR at the point of closure to Mr B for the same value in EUR  less any 
fee they ordinarily charge for EUR transfer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman