DRN-1862420
The complaint
Mr D complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let him 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr D acquired a new car costing £31,970 funded by a deposit of £12,788 
and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. 
From the outset Mr D says he had problems with the satnav and I note that the dealer has a 
record of seven visits and agrees that there were other ones not recorded. The first recorded 
visit was on 9 May 2018. He contacted BMWFS on 8 August 2019 to complain and ask that 
he be allowed to reject it. BMWFS refused and so he brought his complaint to this service.
His complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
He said the car was new and a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be 
higher than a second-hand car and it should be free from defects. He referenced the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 which said that under a contract to supply goods, there is an 
implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
He concluded that there was an on-going fault with the car. He said he had taken into 
account the record of visits to the dealer and videos and photos supplied by Mr D. In 
particular he noted the email exchanges between Mr D and BMW which showed the problem 
to be a development fault. He thought Mr D ought to be allowed to reject the car and be paid 
£200 compensation.
BMWFS didnt agree with rejection and offered to pay Mr D £1,370 which was the cost of the 
satnav system. It didnt think the fault was sufficient to merit rejection. Mr D said he would be 
prepared to keep the car if BMW could guarantee to fix the fault within a reasonable time. He 
also asked for substantial costs and compensation. 
A fix could not be found and our investigator concluded rejection was the right outcome with 
some costs and compensation. As neither party has agreed it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I have found this to be a finely balanced decision, but after due consideration I have 
concluded that the complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
In simple terms the car was faulty and despite numerous attempts the dealer was unable to 
repair it. That is not disputed by anyone involved in this complaint. Although I consider that 
element to be clear cut the issue of what to do about it is less straightforward.  
BMWFS do not regard it as sufficiently serious to merit rejection and have offered 
compensation; the cost of the satnav system. It notes that Mr D has been able to use the car 
and I see that he has covered a significant number of miles in it. That suggests that the loss 
of use of the satnav on an intermittent basis has not prevented use of the car.
Mr D has also provided comparisons with other satnav systems he has used, presumably via 
his mobile phone which are more effective than that in the car. That would suggest that he 
has alternative means of using satellite navigation when travelling in his car. In that regard it 
could be argued that he has not been significantly disadvantaged.
However, he acquired an expensive new car and he had every reason to expect it to work 
properly. The fact he could find work around solutions does not mean that the car was of an 
acceptable standard.  I believe it reasonable to expect the satnav system to work and I also 
believe it to be an inherent and key part of the car. Therefore, I consider its continuing failure 
to be a significant fault. That means that since BMW are unable to fix the fault I consider Mr 
D is entitled to reject the car. 
I note Mr D didnt contact BMWFS until some 18 months had passed. That is unfortunate, 
but he was dealing with his BMW dealer and supplier of the car and keeping in regular 
contact with it. I dont believe he asked to reject the car within 30 days and I dont consider 
that to be unreasonable. He had every reason to presume the matter would be fixed. Under 
consumer law the supplier had one attempt to repair the problem and in this case it has had 
numerous opportunities to do so.
It seems that the fault cannot be fixed and Mr D says that further issues have arisen, but I 
have seen no detail of these. Therefore, I consider, on balance that rejection is the most 
suitable outcome. Mr D has sought extensive compensation, but I dont consider such sums 
are appropriate. As I mentioned above he has been able to make extensive use of the car 
and he has not been significantly disadvantaged. 
Putting things right
I consider Mr D should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
Terminate the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
Refund his deposit plus interest at 8% simple from the date paid until it is repaid.
Pay expenses of £60.05.
Pay compensation of £200 for trouble and upset.
Refund 5% of his monthly payments plus interest at 8% simple from the date paid 
until the date repaid.
Remove any adverse entries which may have been made on Mr Ds credit files.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman