DRN-3227122
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made a payment from his currency account that 
he disputes and didnt establish the exchange rate or provide him with evidence about it.
What happened
Mr D disputes exchanging 10,000 Euros to Sterling and transferring the money to a Sterling 
account on 3 February 2020. He says that he was looking to find out what the exchange rate 
would be and didnt conclude the payment. Mr D is also unhappy that no guaranteed 
exchange rate was provided and that when he asked for evidence he had made the 
transaction this wasnt provided.
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that the transaction was made at 19:53 that 
evening and had been confirmed with Mr Ds details when he was logged into online 
banking. It said that it was unable to provide a guaranteed rate and rates given were 
indicative only. If Mr D had been told he could obtain a guaranteed rate by branch staff that 
was incorrect. And it had also recorded his concerns about its international helpdesk. 
Barclays said it wouldnt change the money back other than at the current exchange rate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Barclays had 
provided its internal systems information showing the steps followed while Mr D was logged 
into online banking including the exchange of the currency. There were no errors with the 
system reported generally at that time. Mr D had logged in at 19:48 and remained logged 
into until 19:59 - after the transfer was made. She had provided heavily redacted systems 
extracts to Mr D showing the specific point at which the payment had been confirmed and 
the indicative rate of 1.2071 (Euros to Sterling) and actual rate of 1.2072 established after 
the payment. She said that she wouldnt have expected Barclays to provide internal 
information and that it wouldnt be clear what this showed other than to someone trained to 
use it.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He still wanted the monetary 
difference in converting the amount back to Euros credited to him. He had said he had 
powered off his laptop before the payment was made. This wasnt a fraud or technical case: 
he didnt make the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the information provided by Barclays about the currency exchange and the 
related transfer. I appreciate that Mr D has only now seen a redacted version of that. But I 
want to assure him that the specific elements hes now seen are the key ones relating to the 
payment. These in particular confirm he was logged on for the period referred to by our 
investigator, was given an indicative exchange rate and then confirmed the transaction. I 
know that one of Mr Ds complaint points was that Barclays wouldnt give him this 
information but as this is internal and proprietary systems information I wouldnt have 
expected it to. And it gave him referral rights to this service for his complaint.
The test we apply where there is a dispute is what is most likely on a balance of 
probabilities. I consider the evidence Barclays has provided about the transaction being 
authorised satisfies that test and seems compelling. I accept that Mr D may have made a 
genuine mistake in making the payment when he was looking for an exchange rate. And I 
think that his belief about this was likely compounded when he couldnt see the evidence 
Barclays relied on. But Im afraid I think he did consent to and authorise this transaction.
Mr D is generally unhappy with Barclays processes. We provide informal dispute resolution 
and arent the regulator and so dont have a role in setting processes. Barclays has 
explained that exchange rates vary in fractions of a second. It might give an indicative rate 
but that isnt guaranteed and here the rate was set when the payment was made. And how it 
notifies the payment especially where made online is a matter for it to determine.
I can appreciate how disappointed Mr D will now be to receive this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman