DRN-4260259
The complaint
Mr B complained to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about the redress offered after an 
error was identified with the fund values it transferred to Mr Bs Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) plan.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr B arranged to transfer two pension plans he held with Aviva to a SIPP 
he held with another provider, Ill refer to as Firm I.
In May 2022, Aviva wrote to Mr B because, having completed an audit, it had identified a 
historical pricing error regarding annual management charges on one of the funds held 
within the two pensions than had been transferred. Aviva explained this meant it had 
transferred less to Firm I than it should have done. It calculated the loss, including net 
interest of £5.28, to be £336.54. Aviva said that it would shortly be sending Mr B a 
cheque for this amount. It also confirmed that, although there is sometimes a tax charge 
for any additional payments from a pension contract which is no longer in force, in this 
instance it had agreed with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) that Aviva would settle the 
charge on this payment. So there was no tax for Mr B to pay. A week later Aviva sent Mr 
B a cheque.
Mr B contacted Aviva and requested information so he could determine if what it was 
offering to rectify matters was fair. Unsatisfied with the response received, Mr B 
complained to Aviva that:
The amount paid does not reflect the fact that the funds have lost the benefit of 
being within a pension tax wrapper
No allowance had been made for loss of gain on the funds between 23/12/2020 
and the date of payment (17/05/2022). And Aviva has added interest to the loss 
at Bank of England interest rate plus 1%, yet the Financial Ombudsman Service 
would allow for interest at 8%
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 19 August 2022. It said:
The payment had been made to Mr B tax free. But if this amount had been 
withdrawn from a pension it would have been taxed as income. Aviva explained 
that if Mr B had a suitable pension policy, he would be able to pay this into his 
plan. But it recommended he seek financial advice before doing so.
It had written to Firm I (three times) asking for information on what Mr Bs fund 
would be worth, had the correct amount been transferred initially. Aviva 
explained that, so far, it hadnt received a response. It asked Mr B if he was able 
to obtain this information so Aviva could calculate any financial loss incurred.
It also explained that its standard process is to use the Bank of England interest 
rate plus 1% as this puts Mr B in a similar position to if hed received the money 
and kept it in a bank. It acknowledged that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
may use a different rate, but it explained that the payment hadnt been taxed as 
income. So, it believed this to be a fair way to rectify the error caused by the 
incorrect AMC.
In recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Mr B, Aviva said it had 
issued a cheque for £25.
There were further emails between Mr B and Aviva after the correspondence Ive 
summerised above, one of which included Mr Bs own calculations setting out the loss 
he thought hed suffered. As the matter was unable to be resolved, Mr B referred the 
complaint to our service for an independent review.
When providing its file to this service, Aviva said that it had written three times to Firm I 
to ask for calculations. But it had failed to reply so this part of the resolution was still 
open. Aviva confirmed that if Firm I still refused to provide the information, it would be 
happy to pay interest of 8% on the amount of £336.54 from the date due to the date of 
payment.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and initially thought Avivas offer was fair. 
However, Mr B provided further comments in response to the investigators opinion. In 
light of these new comments, the investigator reconsidered matters and updated her 
findings. In summary she said that:
Mr B had provided evidence to demonstrate that Firm I did in fact respond to 
Aviva in September 2022. The evidence showed Firm I had directed Aviva to Mr 
B for the information it required.
Mr B was unhappy with the delay in Aviva notifying him of the error. But the 
investigator thought what Aviva had proposed would ensure hed not lost out as 
a result of the error and the delay in it being identified. In terms of any distress 
or inconvenience caused by this delay, Mr B wasnt aware there had been an 
error during this period, so the investigator didnt think any compensation 
payment Aviva made (for distress and inconvenience) needed to take this 
period into account.
After Mr B was notified of the error, there were some customer service issues. In 
particular, the investigator thought Aviva could have responded and clarified its 
position with Mr Bs SIPP provider in the knowledge that Mr B had already tried 
to communicate and demonstrate what he saw as the investment loss via his 
own calculations. Aviva had awarded Mr B £25 to date for the inconvenience 
caused by the incorrect unit deduction. The investigator recommended Aviva pay 
Mr B a further
£125.
In terms of what Aviva needed to do to ensure Mr B hadnt lost out as a result of 
the error, the investigator recommended Aviva pay Mr B 8% on the amount of 
£336.54 it had already paid him.
Mr B responded to the investigators updated findings. He explained that his complaint 
was never about obtaining additional money from Aviva; its about Aviva having a duty to 
provide competent financial services in line with the regulators handbook. Mr B believes 
Aviva has failed at every stage to correct the error properly, including after it had been 
provided with everything it wanted to complete a loss calculation.
Aviva responded to the investigators findings. It said that its records didnt show that it had 
received the information it had requested to complete the loss calculation. And it hadnt 
received Mr Bs own calculations. It said that its complaint handler did respond to Mr Bs 
offer of calculations and estimates of gains on 25 August 2022 explaining it could only complete the calculation when it receives the required information from Firm I. Mr B then 
replied the same day stating he was going to the Financial Ombudsman Service, which it 
believed he had done. Mr B sent a further email on 12 September 2022 stating he wanted 
a reply to an email he sent on 26 August 2022  which Aviva didnt receive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the information available, Im partially upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Aviva has calculated that it transferred less to Firm I when Mr Bs pensions were transferred 
in December 2020 and January 2021. It initially added interest at Bank of England rate plus 
1% to the loss it identified. Mr B queried this and Aviva agreed to cover any investment loss 
on these funds. But Aviva didnt receive the information it requested from Firm I in order to 
calculate this loss. Ultimately, it proposed to use 8% simple interest to address the 
investment loss. Our investigator thought this was fair.
I can see that Mr B has been able to provide the information Aviva requested in order to 
complete these calculations. And hes provided his own calculations of what he considers 
the loss to be. I do appreciate Mr B has gone to the effort of providing this information. But 
I wont be asking Aviva to recalculate using what he has provided. Id like to clarify that its 
certainly not because I dont trust the information hes provided; from what Ive seen, its 
the information Aviva needed to complete the calculation. However. Mr Bs calculations 
arent in line with the approach this service would ask Aviva to take if we asked it to 
complete a loss assessment. And I think the offer put forward by Aviva to resolve this part 
of the complaint is fair so I dont think its necessary for a recalculation to be done.
I say this because, in situations such as this, we would usually ask Aviva to compare the 
value of the SIPP, with the value that it would have been worth, had the correct amounts 
been transferred at the right time. We would then ask that any loss identified is paid to the 
consumer as a lump sum. But had it been possible to pay into the pension, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore we would ask that the compensation is reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC. I appreciate Mr B has disputed the tax position and hes said that this is a payment 
for investment loss as a result of an error caused by Aviva when transferring his pension 
and that he hasnt asked for money from his pension. But its not unreasonable for Aviva to 
make a payment directly to Mr B to settle this matter and our usual approach would be to 
ask it to reduce the loss accordingly.
This payment represents additional pension benefits that would otherwise have likely been 
taxed in future. So this service takes the view that when these benefits are taken, they would 
provide a taxable income. Mr B says that he wouldnt be paying tax in retirement and I dont 
have any details of Mr Bs retirement provision, other than what he transferred from Aviva.
So I dont know of his state pension or other entitlements. But Im conscious that the state 
pension counts towards an individuals personal allowance, so this alone, leaves very little 
left of the personal allowance before an individual would be required to pay basic rate tax. 
And it would be uncommon for an individual with a fairly substantial pension not to have to 
pay any tax at all in retirement. For this reason, if I was asking Aviva to recalculate the loss 
 which Im not - I would also ask it to reduce the payment to reflect the notional tax 
position.However, as Ive mentioned above, I wont be asking Aviva to recalculate the loss Mr B has 
suffered. This is because, while Mr Bs owns calculations take account of Aviva having 
already paid him £336.54, they dont take account of the fact this payment was made gross 
and already included interest at Bank of England rate plus 1%. Nor do the calculations take 
account of this payment (the £336.54) being paid to Mr B in May 2022. So any investment 
loss on the actual loss identified as a result of the pricing error of £331.27 (£336.54 minus 
interest at Bank of England plus 1%), is only payable between December 2020/January 
2021 (when the loss occurred) and May 2022.
Mr Bs own calculations suggest the loss continues until the complaint is settled but for the 
reasons explained above, Im not satisfied this is right.
It also appears Mr B intends to reinvest these additional funds in his pension. I say this 
because he has included trading fees in his calculations. And while I dont doubt Mr B will 
incur these trading fees if he chooses to reinvest, I wont be asking Aviva to cover these 
additional fees. This is because, I think its offer to pay 8% interest on the £336.54 up to 
May 2022, on top of the amount it has already paid is reasonable. As Ive said above, the 
initial payment was made gross. And Aviva has confirmed that it wont be deducting any 
notional tax from this additional payment. If Mr B chooses to reinvest these funds in a 
pension wrapper, they will be treated as a contribution and will likely attract tax relief. Given 
that this service would usually ask a business to make these payments net of tax, I think 
what Aviva has offered to do here is fair and will likely leave Mr B in a better position than if 
I was to ask Aviva to recalculate the loss in line with the approach our Service would take.
Delays and general customer service
I appreciate what Mr B has said about Aviva having a duty to provide competent financial 
services in line with the regulators handbook. It isnt the role of this service to regulate or 
punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think what Ive set out above does that. However, Im conscious that this matter has 
caused Mr B some frustration and inconvenience as well. So Ive thought about what Aviva 
needs to do in this respect.
I know Mr B thinks any award for distress and inconvenience should take account of the 
fact that it took Aviva over 16 months to identify the error and notify him that it had 
occurred. But what Ive set out above ensures Mr B hasnt lost out as a result of the delay. 
And until Aviva wrote to Mr B, he wasnt aware there was a problem. So although it took 
over 16 months to let him know, I dont think there was any distress or inconvenience 
caused to him during this initial period.
After Aviva notified Mr B of the error, he had to request details in order to work out what 
had happened to determine if hed suffered a loss. And, I agree with our investigator that 
since that point, Aviva could have done more to engage with Mr B and his SIPP provider. 
And it missed opportunities to resolve this matter sooner.
After Aviva agreed it would consider any financial loss Mr B may have suffered as a result of 
the funds not being transferred at the correct time, it advised Mr B that if he was able to 
provide the required information, it would carry out the loss assessment. So, Mr B provided this information to Aviva but it appears his email was quarantined.
Aviva has since said that it checked its quarantined email file and an email hadnt been 
received. So it assumed Mr B hadnt sent an email and had instead referred matters to this 
service. I dont think Aviva was right to make this assumption. Mr B had chased Aviva for a 
response to his email. So I think it was clear hed sent an email and Aviva should have 
followed this matter up with him when one couldnt be found. Had it done so at this point, it 
would have received the calculations and information Mr B had submitted. Instead Mr B 
was left feeling that he had gone to the effort of providing this information - which Aviva 
said he could provide - and it was being disregarded. Alternatively if this information wasnt 
sufficient, it could have advised Mr B why and what additional information was needed.
Aviva also mistakenly advised this service that Firm I hadnt responded to its request for 
information. Mr B has provided evidence to show that Firm I had, in fact, replied in 
September 2022 and advised Aviva that it should get the required information from Mr B. I 
think at this point, Aviva again missed another opportunity to engage with Mr B to resolve 
this matter. Instead, it seems it took no action, despite Mr B chasing it, by email on 12 
September and 13 October 2022, before he referred the matter to this service in December 
2022.
Aviva has already sent Mr B a cheque for £25 for the inconvenience caused by the initial 
incorrect AMC pricing error. Like our investigator, I think its clear this matter has caused 
Mr B additional frustration and inconvenience. I find that the £25 compensation already paid 
is insufficient, both for that initial upset and for what has happened subsequently. Our 
investigator thought Aviva should pay an additional £125 and I agree this more accurately 
reflects the inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
What must Aviva do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Aviva must:
 Calculate 8% simple interest per year, on the amount of £336.54, from the date 
Mr B transferred his pensions to Firm I, to the date of its payment to Mr B in May 
2022. Aviva has confirmed that it will not be reducing this amount to reflect 
notional income tax.
 Pay an additional £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused, so £150 in 
total, as a result of the customer service failings Mr B experienced in trying to 
put this matter right.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman