DRN-1316195
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his car insurance policy. Advantage looked to repair his car, but he  
was unhappy about the amount of time it took to repair it. He also felt that the repairing 
garage lied to him and that the standard of repairs were poor. And that he was left without a 
vehicle for periods and that the courtesy car provided wasnt good enough. Mr H complained 
to Advantage about all of this but as he remained unhappy with its response he complained 
to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him, but she didnt uphold his complaint. She agreed 
that Advantage had provided a poor service; that the matter had been delayed; and that his 
car was returned with outstanding repairs. But she thought that Advantages offer of £225 
compensation and offer to pay for a failed MOT was fair and in line with the kind of awards 
this service ordinarily makes.
As Mr H and his representative didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mr H and the position he found himself. 
Through no fault of his own he was left without his car for a prolonged period of time and 
when it was repaired it wasnt to a reasonable standard. But I agree that Advantage has 
taken sufficient steps and given a fair amount of compensation in attempting to put things 
right. Ill explain why.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. Instead Ill focus on whether Advantage has taken sufficient steps to put things right 
and I think it has.
Unfortunately things can go wrong when cars are repaired after being involved in accidents 
as they have in this instance. It must have been stressful for Mr H to face the prolonged 
repair of his car. And very worrying to have his car returned in a state of disrepair which was 
only picked up on when he took his car to get an MOT. But Advantage got an independent 
engineer to look at the car and agreed that it shouldnt have been returned in the position it 
was and looked to rectify things. It got the garage to fully repair the car and also paid for Mr 
Hs MOT and ensured he had a courtesy car to keep him mobile which seems fair in the 
circumstances. I know Mr H wouldve liked a different courtesy car but his policy doesnt 
provide for that and so I think Advantage acted reasonably here, especially as the class of 
car was similar.
As our investigator explained Advantage has provided some evidence to show that there 
was a delay in gaining parts. And so while I dont doubt what Mr H and his representative 
say the garage told them about the delay (that it was down to a member of staff being 
unwell) I think this explains things and repairs are often delayed as parts have to be sourced. 
Advantage offered £225 compensation for all of this which I feel is fair and covers Mr Hs 
loss of use of his car, although I agree with the investigator that if Mr H has any receipts 
regarding the use of taxis then Advantage should consider this. I know Mr H would like more 
but this services awards are generally modest, and this is in line with the awards I would 
ordinarily make so Im not asking it to pay anymore. 
I know Mr H and his representative have said they were worried about what could have 
happened as the car went onto fail its MOT and they feel the garage was negligent. But as 
the investigator explained this service doesnt look at what may or may not have happened 
in making compensation awards, just what actually happened. So, although I accept that Mr 
H and his representative feel that something couldve happened as there car went onto fail 
its MOT, it didnt. And I havent seen anything to suggest the garage was negligent, it just 
didnt deal with things as well as it should have which has now been rectified.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint as I feel that 
Advantage have taken sufficient steps to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman