DRN-1442046
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
There is limited documentation and information from the time of sale. This is understandable 
given the sale took place over 20 years ago. 
Due to the time that has passed and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt 
anything to say whether BOS gave Mr B a choice or not. Businesses arent required to keep 
information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that BOS wouldnt have given Mr B a 
choice, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. Mr B says he doesnt remember being 
given an option but I cant fairly uphold on this basis.
BOS have assumed the sale took place in branch so it has also looked at the case as if it 
recommended the PPI to Mr B. So it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Mr B has said he would receive three to six months sick pay from his employer if he was too 
ill to work and that he also had some savings he could use. But this policy would cover 10% 
of the outstanding balance of his account for up to 12 months if he was too sick to work or he 
lost his job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any other pay he 
would receive. And it wouldve allowed him to use any savings he had for other expenses, or 
keep them intact for the future.  So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said but these points dont change my decision.Ive also thought about whether BOS needs to give Mr B some of the commission he paid 
back. As Mr Bs credit card was taken out before 6 April 2008 the rules dont apply. So BOS 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr B paid for the PPI he had with the credit 
card.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman