DRN-3474133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain an appointed representative of Sesame Limited gave them 
unsuitable advice to surrender money from two bonds they held and use the funds to invest 
in a high risk unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs financial adviser was Mr W who worked for Munroe James Ltd  an 
appointed representative of Sesame between 29 September 2008 and 25 November 2010.
Mr and Mrs B say Mr W suggested they invest in a UCIS with Eurocape Estates Ltd in 2009 
(the Brazilian UCIS). At that point they didnt have any cash to invest so they say he advised 
they surrender money from two bonds they held  one with Prudential and one with 
Clerical Medical  to make the investment. Both bonds were in joint names and the payment 
forms were signed on 21 February 2009 and 4 March 2009 respectively to surrender £5,000 
from each. 
The Brazilian UCIS involved purchasing sub-leases of plots of land with a view to the master 
lease being bought back later and each of the sub-lease holders making a profit. Two sub-
leases were taken out in Mrs Bs name for £5,000 each. These were signed on 3 April 2009 
with a lease end date seven years later.
Mr W wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 22 November 2018 saying:
As also discussed, it is unfortunate, but I believe that despite previous reassurances 
to the contrary that the investment in the Brazilian Land Scheme via Eurocape Estate 
Limited will provide no return and effectively has become valueless. This is based on 
lack of any meaningful update from the operator/manager of the scheme [Mr M] for 
several months and some information provided by a third party who had been 
investigating the investment.
So it would appear that the investment is similar to the Eurocape Property Finance 
Fund you were invested in which also became valueless.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Sesame about the advice they said Mr W had given them.
Sesame replied to say it isnt responsible. In particular, it said:
Mr and Mrs B had made their complaint too late. The events complained about were 
more than six years before they complained. And they should have been aware the 
Brazilian UCIS had failed and theyd lost the money more than three years before 
they complained.
It pointed to the fact the leases had been due to be bought back on 3 April 2016 but 
werent and that Eurocape had been dissolved on 24 September 2013. It also 
pointed to comments it says Mr and Mrs B made about why they didnt complain 
earlier, quoting them as having said we believed that at some point down the line we 
would receive our money back, but this has never happened.
Mr W had been representing it when he gave advice to surrender money from the 
bonds in question. But theres no evidence that he gave advice on the Brazilian UCIS 
whilst acting as a representative of it. If advice had been given by him representing 
Munroe James it would have expected to see a fact find and suitability letter and to 
have received commission.
Munroe James didnt have permission to advise on UCIS at all. Its far more likely 
advice was given as Munroe James Specialist Investments Ltd  a separate legal 
entity which it had no connection to.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. An investigator was satisfied we could consider 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Sesame and that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mr and Mrs B didnt know they had cause to complain more than three years before 
they did. And theres nothing to say they ought reasonably to have.
Mr W himself has said he only found out the Brazilian UCIS was worthless towards 
the end of 2018. And its clear from the letter he sent Mr and Mrs B that hed been 
reassuring them in relation to it before that date. This is also Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollection.
Theres nothing that suggests Mr and Mrs B were aware that Eurocape had been 
dissolved on 24 September 2013. And finding this out would have involved some 
quite in-depth digging which it isnt reasonable to expect them to have done. Even if 
they were aware of this, it doesnt seem as though they understood the implications.
Sesame is responsible for the acts complained of:
oThere were regulated activities  advising on, and making arrangements in 
relation to, bonds and a UCIS.
oThis was one piece of advice  to surrender money from bonds to invest in a 
UCIS  that was made by Mr W as Munroe James.
oMunroe James wasnt allowed to advise on UCIS under the appointed 
representative agreement it had with Sesame. But theres nothing to suggest it 
wasnt allowed to advise on bonds. Its therefore likely that Mr W had permission 
and actual authority to advise on surrendering money from the bonds. Caselaw 
means that where one act is allowed, we may be able to look at other acts that 
are linked to that because advice cant be confined to one part of an overall 
transaction where acts are intrinsically linked. Thats the case here.
The advice to surrender money from two bonds to invest in the Brazilian UCIS wasnt 
suitable.
If everything had happened as it should have, Mr and Mrs B would have remained in 
the bonds they had.
Sesame didnt agree. Ive read and considered its response in full. In summary, it said:Jurisdiction hasnt been resolved so the Ombudsmans decision should only consider 
jurisdiction in the first instance.
It doesnt agree with the investigators findings on the time bar objection. Mr and 
Mrs B werent unsophisticated investors  they had a significant portfolio of 
investments and werent financially nave.
Two significant dates need to be considered  24 September 2013 when Eurocape 
was dissolved; and 3 April 2016 when the leases were due to be bought back.
Mr and Mrs B had been looking for a good return on their investments.
The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
My findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
Was the complaint made too late?
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook of Rules and 
Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Its not clear exactly when the advice complained about was given. But as set out above, 
money from the bonds was surrendered in February and March 2009. So, the advice must 
have happened in or before February 2009.
Mr and Mrs B initially complained to Sesame on 27 March 2019. Sesame says it didnt 
receive that complaint because it was sent to an incorrect address. The complaint was therefore resent to a different address on 13 August 2019 and Sesame did receive that 
complaint.
Irrespective of which of these dates stopped the clock for the purpose of the time limit, the 
complaint is outside the first part of the time limit  i.e. it was made more than six years after 
the events complained about.
The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside the 
second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after Mr and 
Mrs B knew, or ought reasonably to have known, they had cause to complain.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says the Brazilian UCIS was too high-risk and unsuitable for 
them. It says Mr and Mrs B only discovered this at a meeting with Mr W in November 2018. 
Mr W wrote to them on 22 November 2018 following that meeting. As set out above, that 
letter said:
As also discussed, it is unfortunate, but I believe that despite previous reassurances 
to the contrary that the investment in the Brazilian Land Scheme via Eurocape Estate 
Limited will provide no return and effectively has become valueless. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says until that point, Mr W had always reassured them that 
the Brazilian UCIS would return their capital and they just had to wait. Mr W gave the 
following background to his concerns in a letter to Mr and Mrs Bs representative dated 
17 December 2021:
What I can say is that as the years progressed, former colleagues found it harder to 
get any meaningful response from [the fund manager] to their requests for updates 
and by the middle of 2018 none of them had received any information for several 
months.
I had been sceptical about the information provided to former colleagues by [the fund 
manager] for some time prior to 2018, however, when it appeared that [the fund 
manager] had stopped responding to information requests, I believed the 
investments as worthless.
I took this view in late 2018 as by that time evidence had emerged about another 
investment that [the fund manager] had managed in South Africa had not been 
operated in accordance with the terms of the investment and it was my belief that the 
Brazil Leases would be no different.
Sesame says there are two events earlier than this that ought reasonably to have given 
Mr and Mrs B cause to complain:
The fact that Eurocape was dissolved on 24 September 2013.
The fact the sub-leases were due to be bought back on 3 April 2016 and werent.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know Eurocape had been dissolved on 24 September 2013. I 
find this plausible. They say the only paperwork they received in relation to the Brazilian 
UCIS was the original brochure and lease documents and all updates were provided verbally 
by Mr W. I havent been provided with any letters that were sent to investors. And Sesame 
hasnt made the argument that letters would have been sent. Unless Mr and Mrs B had 
decided to do some investigation or Mr W had found out and told them, it doesnt seem like 
the kind of information theyd have found out. Like the investigator, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to have carried out that level of investigation in the 
circumstances.
In terms of the fact the sub-leases were due to be bought back, it does seem as though this 
was something Mr and Mrs B were aware of. But it also seems they were reliant on Mr W for 
updates and he was reassuring them there wasnt an issue. Mr and Mrs Bs representative 
said that when they made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
in February 2016 about a different UCIS, they asked Mr W about the potential returns they 
could expect from the Brazilian UCIS and he informed them that the terms of the Brazil 
UCIS had not yet been breached as the lease did not expire until 3rd April 2016 at the 
earliest and the terms of the lease allowed it to be rolled over for a further 7 years so they 
would have to wait and see as to when it would mature and [Mr M] the ultimate manager of 
the Brazil UCIS had been providing updates, albeit on an infrequent basis, that there were 
still numerous exit strategies being pursued regarding the sale of the land in Brazil which 
would in turn be distributed to leaseholders.
Ive looked at the terms of the sub-leases and note that they say if the land isnt sold and the 
master lease isnt ended within seven years, then the sub-leases automatically renew for a 
further seven years  effectively making their final expiry 2 April 2023:
LR8.1unless the land is not disposed of within the 7 year period of the lease it will 
automatically be renewed.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says they accepted in 2016 that the lease would carry over 
until 2023. And taking everything into account, Im satisfied this was reasonable  as was the 
fact they werent concerned about this.
I also note that Mrs B had made a previous investment in a different Eurocape UCIS that she 
went to the FSCS about in February 2016. However, their representative has explained the 
differences between that UCIS and this one and its also explained the reassurances Mr W 
gave them in relation to the Brazilian UCIS. Im satisfied there were significant differences 
and I dont think that knowledge of issues with the first UCIS would have given knowledge of 
issues with this one.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B ought reasonably to have 
been aware of cause to complain before November 2018. I accept they had a significant 
portfolio of investments and had some financial experience. But its clear to me that they 
were reliant on information provided by Mr W. They werent receiving documentation about 
the Brazilian UCIS  and hadnt been expecting to  and in those circumstances Mr W was 
the obvious source of information for it. In Mr Ws words, hed been providing them with 
reassurances. And given the relationship they had with Mr W, I think it was reasonable for 
them to rely on these.
I note Sesames concerns about Mr and Mrs Bs responses to why they didnt complain 
sooner. In particular, in a letter to Sesame dated 26 September 2019, they said:
In answer to why we have not complained sooner, we believed that at some point 
down the line we would receive our money back, but this has never happened. It is 
only recently we have regarded this as a scam and felt certain we have now lost our 
money. When looking on the internet this was only confirmed to us when we saw that 
Munroe James Ltd and Eurocape Estates are both no longer operating.
And on a Sesame form that asked, What date did you become aware of any potential 
problems with the fund/Investment and what action did you take, if any? they answered: When Munroe James went out of business and we couldnt contact anyone. We were 
told the Brazilian land investment was going to be a short term investment but 
realised after a few years that taking money out of our Clerical Medical and 
Prudential Bonds was wrong advice and we shouldnt of invested in Brazilian land. 
But Im satisfied nothing Mr and Mrs B have said here means they ought reasonably to have 
complained before November 2018. Not being able to contact anyone seems to have been 
the trigger for their complaint. And the evidence suggests the first they knew that the 
relevant people couldnt be contacted was November 2018. Up until that point it seems 
theyd been in communication with Mr W and hed been reassuring them sufficiently that 
they believed they were going to get their money back and so didnt have cause to complain.
Im therefore satisfied that whether Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was made on 27 March 2019 
or 13 August 2019, it was made within three years of when they knew, or ought reasonably 
to have known, they had cause to complain. And so their complaint was made in time.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Munroe James wasnt directly 
authorised. Instead it was an appointed representative of Sesame. Sesame is an authorised 
firm. Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising 
on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Sesame. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of 
Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but 
the Court of Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Sesame was authorised to do. 
Whether Sesame is responsible for the actions of Mr W is determined by considering the 
terms of the contract between Sesame and Munroe James  the appointed representative 
agreement.
To decide whether Sesame is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr and Mrs B have complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Sesame accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr and Mrs B have complained about?
Mr and Mrs B complain they were given unsuitable advice to surrender money from two 
bonds they held and to use the funds to invest in a high risk UCIS.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Bonds and UCIS are specified as investments in the RAO and Im 
satisfied the investment in question here was a UCIS. Advising on investments is a specified 
activity under Article 53 RAO. And arranging deals in investments is a specified activity 
under Article 25 RAO.
Its clear that Mr W was involved in making arrangements for the surrender of money from 
the bonds and the Brazilian UCIS. Sesame seems to accept that advice was given. Although 
its said theres no evidence of a fact find or suitability report in relation to the Brazilian UCIS, 
this seems to be a factor in why it believes advice wasnt given as Munroe James  not a 
factor for thinking no advice was given.
But for the sake of completeness and for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied its most likely 
Mr W advised Mr and Mrs B to surrender money from their bonds to invest in the Brazilian 
UCIS.
Although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice was given, the absence of 
one doesnt mean advice wasnt given. I think its highly unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have 
taken the decision themselves to surrender money from their bonds without receiving advice. 
Theyve plausibly and consistently said Mr W advised them and that theyd been happy with the bonds and it seems the rest of the money remained in the bonds. Given the proximity in 
time of money being taken from the bonds to the Brazilian UCIS investment being made Im 
persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of events. 
Did Sesame accept responsibility for those acts?
In order to answer this, the first question I need to satisfy myself of is whether Mr W was 
holding himself out as representing Sesame at the time of the advice complained about.
Sesame seems to accept Mr W was holding himself out as Munroe James when advice was 
given to cash in part of the bonds. But it says he wasnt when any advice was given to invest 
in the Brazilian UCIS. It says Munroe James had asked it about selling a Eurocape UCIS in 
2008 and had been told no. It says to arrange UCIS, Munroe James had therefore 
established a separate arm of its business called Munroe James Specialist Investments Ltd 
which wasnt linked to Sesame at all. It says the advice in relation to the Brazilian UCIS must 
have been given as Munroe James Specialist Investments Ltd because otherwise itd expect 
to see a fact find and suitability letter and it would have received commission.
Ive thought about this carefully but taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr W was 
most likely holding himself out as acting as a representative of Sesame at the time of the 
events complained about. 
Mr W sent a letter to Mr and Mrs B on Munroe James paper dated 16 February 2009 which 
read:
RE: Prudential Surrender Form
Further to our recent meeting and our discussions regarding the Eurocape Estates 
Investment, please find attached a surrender letter to sign.
Please sign the form where indicated and return back to me in the pre-paid provided.
Please contact me when monies are received into your account so I can arrange to 
complete the paperwork for your new Eurocape Estates Investment
And the footer of the paper read:
Munroe James Ltd is an appointed representative of Sesame Ltd, which is
authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority
their company registration number is 06685731
An identical letter was sent for the Clerical Medical bond on 27 February 2009.
It seems clear to me from these letters that Mr W was holding himself out as representing 
Munroe James when he advised Mr and Mrs B in relation to surrendering money from the 
bonds and the UCIS investment and made arrangements for these. Ive seen no mention of 
Munroe James Specialist Investments Ltd and theres nothing that satisfies me that 
distinction was ever made.
I also note that when Mr W wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 22 November 2018, he said:
In the case of the Brazilian Land Investment should you choose to complain than [sic] 
the complaint should be directed to Sesame Limited.
And in a letter to Mr and Mrs Bs representative dated 17 December 2021, he said:the whole Brazilian Lease situation is both a frustration and an embarrassment to 
me, however, I was employed by Munroe James Ltd and was targeted by my 
employer to advise on the Leases.
This suggests that Mr W felt he was acting as an appointed representative of Sesame at the 
time the advice was given.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the appointed representative agreement that was in place 
at the time. The agreement incorporated the compliance manual which included the below:
5.4 How are activities restricted?
The Networks scope of permission does not allow members or advisers to carry out 
certain areas of business. Below we detail the areas where restrictions apply
5.4.4 Activities not permitted
Unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS)  these are outside the 
scope of permission and should not be used
8.1 Sesames Scope of Permission
8.1.1 Introduction
Your membership of Sesame means that you can only provide advice within the 
product areas covered by Sesames Scope of Permission
Giving advice in some areas is simply not permitted (for example Unregulated 
Collective Investment Schemes)
You cannot advise on, or sellUnregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS)under any circumstances.
8.2 Further details of our requirements in each specialist area
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS)
These are excluded from the network scope of permission. You are therefore not 
permitted to undertake work in this area
Unauthorised Products
Sesame members are unable to arrange and/or advise on any of the products 
listed below 

Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes
Please note that you are also unable to advise on and/or arrange any of these 
products via permitted investment vehicles/tax wrappers such as Investment bonds 
or SIPPs
In contrast, the Scope of permissions document lists a variety of bond types in the 
Authorised Product Categories list.On the basis of the documentation Ive been provided with, although the appointed 
representative agreement clearly didnt allow Munroe James to advise on and arrange UCIS, 
it seems it gave Munroe James authority to advise on and arrange surrenders of bonds. And 
Sesame didnt disagree when the investigator made this observation.
So, advising on the surrender of money from bonds and arranging that is business for which 
Sesame accepted responsibility. In my view, advising on and arranging the Brazilian UCIS 
(even if carried out here in breach of the appointed representative agreement) was closely 
associated or intrinsically linked to the advice on, and arranging of, the bonds. They were 
part of the same transaction. The advice to surrender money from the bonds wasnt given on 
a stand-alone basis but was part of a single piece of advice to surrender money from the 
bonds and invest in the Brazilian UCIS. Im satisfied thats consistent with the approach 
taken by the courts (Martin & Anor. v Britannia Life Ltd [1999] and Tenetconnect Services 
Ltd, R (on the application of) v Financial Services Lts & Anor [2018]).
So, I think Sesame did accept responsibility for the acts conducted by Munroe James.
My decision  jurisdiction
For the reasons discussed above, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider this complaint.
My findings  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Sesames comments that this decision should only consider jurisdiction. But in looking 
at the issue of jurisdiction, Ive also been able to consider all the evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And Im satisfied 
Sesame has had the opportunity to comment on this. Ive therefore considered and 
addressed that in this decision. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs B say Mr W didnt ask them about their attitude to risk at the time but they say 
they were cautious investors who were only prepared to accept a moderate level of risk and 
a UCIS involved more risk than they were prepared to take. As previously mentioned, a fact 
find from the time unfortunately isnt available. I have however been provided with an attitude 
to risk questionnaire that was filled in for separate advice given later. In that, risk profiles had 
been selected for both Mr and Mrs B that were under the heading You understand you may 
lose a moderate to significant amount of your money below this line. Mrs Bs risk profile was 
selected as being higher than Mr Bs.
In terms of the bond surrenders themselves, I havent seen any justification for the surrender 
of money from two regulated bonds that it seems Mr and Mrs B were happy with. It seems 
Mr Ws only reason for recommending surrendering money was so that Mr and Mrs B would 
have the money to make the Brazilian UCIS investment. And I havent seen any 
documentary record of why Mr W recommended Mr and Mrs B surrender money from their 
bonds to invest in the Brazilian UCIS.
UCIS investments carry significant risks and a lack of protections. An asset sheet filled in on 
1 July 2009 (shortly after the advice here) recorded Mr and Mrs Bs assets as:
Their main residence.£20,000 of land.
Just over £50,000 of savings/current account balances and a small amount in cash 
ISAs.
Just over £220,000 in investment bonds.
£20,000 in unit/investment trusts.
They also had personal pensions totalling approximately £50,000. Mrs B wasnt working, and 
Mr B was 55. Although I note Mrs B had previously invested in a UCIS and they had a large 
investment portfolio, everything Ive seen suggests they were ordinary retail investors who 
had a large portfolio as a result of the sale of a family business. I note Sesames comments 
that they were looking for good returns. But theres nothing that suggests to me they were 
the sophisticated type of investors for which unregulated high-risk investments would be 
suitable. And theres nothing that suggests they could afford to take significant risks with 
their investments. Mr W would have known all of this.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to surrender money from their bonds to invest in 
the Brazilian UCIS wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a recommendation 
to them. 
Im persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs evidence that they werent looking to surrender their 
bonds. So, Im satisfied that if Mr W hadnt given unsuitable advice, they would have left their 
bonds as they were.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs B as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
Mr and Mrs B say they would have left the money in the bonds they were happy with. And 
Im satisfied thats most likely. I take the view that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have surrendered 
money from their bonds if everything had happened as it should have. Mr and Mrs B say 
they still have the Clerical Medical bond. But they surrendered the Prudential bond in 2013 
and reinvested it into a St Jamess Place bond. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable. 
What must Sesame do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs B fairly, Sesame must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Bs Brazilian UCIS with the value if the money had 
been left in the bonds itd been in previously (making allowance for the fact the 
Prudential bond was moved to a St Jamess Place bond in 2013) and pay the 
difference between the notional value and the actual value of the investments. If the 
actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable.
Sesame should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B 
have been caused upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of a portion of their liquid assets. I think that a payment of £250 is fair to compensate for 
that upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Brazilian 
UCISNo longer 
existsNotional bond 
values from 
previous 
providersDate of 
bond 
surrenderDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It seems the Brazilian UCIS isnt worth anything and no longer exists. If Sesame feels the 
leases Mrs B has do have a commercial value, then it should take ownership of these by 
paying that commercial value. The amount Sesame pays should then be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Sesame is unable to purchase the leases, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Sesame may require that Mrs B provides an undertaking to 
pay it any amount she may receive from the leases in the future. Sesame will need to meet 
any cost in drawing up the undertaking.
Notional value
This is the value of the investment made had it remained in the Prudential and Clerical 
Medical bonds (making allowance for the Prudential bond having been moved to a 
St Jamess Place bond in 2013) until the end date. Sesame should request that the bond 
providers calculate these values.
If the bond providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Sesame will need to 
determine a fair value for Mrs B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sesame 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:Mr and Mrs B wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
If the bond providers are unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put them into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs B would have invested 50% of the money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs B could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My decision is that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. I require Sesame Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs B fair compensation as set out above. Sesame should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr and Mrs B in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman