DRN-3146184
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Limited, trading as Blue Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr T under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance 
that he electronically signed in December 2019. Some issues with the car were dealt with by 
the dealer within a few weeks of the car being supplied to Mr T and he says that, about a 
week later, he began to hear an intermittent rattling from the car. He continued to use it and 
then found an oil leak in June 2020. He paid £26.40 to a garage for it to replace the sump 
plug washer and a rattling from the engine was identified. 
He took the car to a specialist garage and it identified a noise issue which it said would 
require a new exhaust cam shaft, timing chains and tensioners and evidence of coolant loss 
which would require substantial repairs. Mr T complained to Blue Motor Finance but it said 
that the faults were serviceable items and, as the agreement was over six months, it was 
Mr Ts responsibility to provide evidence that confirmed the faults were present or 
developing at the point of sale. It also said that hed carried out around 3,000 miles since the 
point of sale which indicated the current fault couldnt have been present or developing at 
the point of sale.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service and he sold the car in 
April 2021 and the finance was settled. Our investigator recommended that his complaint 
should be upheld. She didnt think that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr T or that Blue Motor Finance had acted fairly and reasonably. She 
recommended that it should: refund the shortfall on the deposit of £561.79, with interest; 
refund 20% of Mr Ts monthly payments from June 2020 as the car was impaired due to the 
repairs that were required, with interest; reimburse the £156 cost of the specialist garages 
inspection, with interest; pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused; and 
remove any adverse information recorded against Mr Ts credit file.
Blue Motor Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that: the agreement has been settled so it has to presume that Mr T was satisfied that he 
obtained full value for the car; the cars been disposed of so it cant examine it or obtain any 
further reports about the rattle or to determine whether Mr T continuing to drive it contributed 
to the issues; and it would appear that the reported faults werent as extreme as diagnosed 
or the car wouldnt have been bought.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr T was about four years old, had been driven for about 
52,625 miles and had a price of £18,500;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there were clearly some issues with the car within a few weeks of it being supplied to 
Mr T and they were dealt with by the dealer  but Mr T says that about a week after it 
was returned to him he began to hear an intermittent rattling from the car;
he says that he continued to use the car as there were no other issues with it and 
there were no error messages on the dashboard but the intermittent rattling 
continued;
he found oil underneath the car so took the car to a garage in June 2020 and an oil 
leak was confirmed and the sump plug washer was replaced  Mr T paid the garage 
£26.40 and the invoice noted that there was a rattling from the engine  the date of 
the invoice is four days more than six months after the date that Mr T electronically 
signed the hire purchase agreement; 
Mr T took the car to a specialist garage a few days later and it identified a noise issue 
which it said would require a new exhaust cam shaft, timing chains and tensioners 
and evidence of coolant loss which would require substantial repairs  he paid £156 
to the garage for the diagnostic work and the cars mileage was recorded as 54,969 
at that time;
I consider this to be a finely balanced complaint because the issues about which 
Mr T has complained were first recognised by a third party about six months after the 
car had been supplied to him and hed been able to drive about 2,300 miles in the car 
in that time  but I dont agree with Blue Motor Finance that the repairs 
recommended by the specialist garage were serviceable items;
the report from the specialist garage clearly describes the faults with the car and the 
required repairs and, although it doesnt say that those faults would have been 
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr T, it was less than five years 
old in June 2020 and had been driven for less than 55,000 miles;
I dont consider that it would be reasonable to expect a car of that age and mileage 
and which had a price of £18,500 to require the repairs identified by the specialist 
garage only about six months after the car was supplied to Mr T;
Blue Motor Finance hasnt provided any independent evidence to show that the faults 
wouldnt have been present when the car was supplied to Mr T;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was 
reasonable for Mr T to expect it to be and that, for that reason, it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him - and I dont consider that Blue Motor 
Finances response to his complaint has been fair or reasonable;
Mr T sold the car in April 2021 for a price of £14,900.12, the outstanding finance of 
£12,362.07 was settled and Mr T received a net payment, after other costs, of 
£2,438.21;
if Mr T hadnt sold the car, I would consider that it was fair and reasonable for him to 
reject it but in these circumstances I have to consider what compensation should be 
paid to him;
Mr T had paid a cash deposit of £3,000 for the car, he received £2,438.21 from the 
sale of the car and I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Blue Motor Finance to pay the difference between those two amounts to Mr T  
so I find that it should refund to him £561.79 of his deposit, with interest on that 
amount from the date that he paid the deposit;
the specialist garage identified the faults with the car in June 2020 and I agree with 
our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to refund 
to Mr T 20% of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since the 
date of that diagnosis, with interest, because of the impaired use that he will have 
had from the car as a result of the faults with it;
Mr T paid £156 to the specialist garage for the diagnostic report  I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to reimburse him for the cost of that 
report, with interest; 
I consider that Blue Motor Finance should remove any information about the hire 
purchase that its recorded on Mr Ts credit file; and
these events will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr T - I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay him £150 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue Motor Finance to 
take the actions described above and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
1. Refund to Mr T £561.79 of the deposit that he paid for the car.
2. Refund to Mr T 20% of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement since the date of the specialist garages diagnosis in June 2020.
3. Pay £156 to Mr T to reimburse him for the cost of that diagnosis.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 1, 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file.
6. Pay £150 to Mr T to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Blue Motor Finance must give Mr T a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman