DRN-2115486
The complaint
In summary, Mr B has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), 
recorded an attempted insurance claim against his name; on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B purchased home and contents insurance. The insurer of the policy was 
RSA. Although the policy wasnt purchased directly from RSA, it was responsible for any 
claims made under the policy.
A few weeks after taking out the policy, Mr B contacted his policy provider about damage to 
his glasses. Its records show that Mr Bs policy had a £200 claims excess. It also records 
that Mr B didnt know if it was worth making a claim at that point due to the excess. And it 
also records that Mr B agreed to close the claim.
Mr B subsequently went to take out home insurance with a different provider. He was told by 
it that an attempt to claim notice had been recorded against his name. 
Mr B complained to his insurance provider. RSA answered Mr Bs complaint as it was the 
underwriter for the policy. It explained what actions it had taken after Mr B had contacted it 
and that it wouldnt be upholding the complaint. 
Mr Bs concerns were then looked into by one of our investigators. She explained to Mr B 
what she didnt think RSA had done anything wrong.
 
In response Mr B explained why he didnt agree with her and as a result, the case has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mr B is disappointed and annoyed that an enquiry about making a claim 
has been recorded against his name on the CUE database, even though he decided against 
pursuing a claim. But I dont think RSA has done anything wrong in this case and Im not 
going to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
RSA has explained the process for checking policy cover and that this would register a 
notification on the CUE database. It is signed up to the CUE. As a result, it must make a 
record of any event its made aware of, even if this doesnt result in a claim being made. So, 
even though Mr B decided not to pursue a claim on his household insurance, RSA still 
needed to record that it had been made aware of an event that could have led to a claim 
being made.
RSA has provided records which show that the claim was recorded as being closed, as it 
was not pursued and was withdrawn. And for the reasons Ive set out above I dont think 
RSA has inaccurately recorded the outcome in respect of Mr Bs claim enquiry or provided 
inaccurate information to the CUE. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman