DRN-3772973
The complaint
Mrs B complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) took too long to 
complete a section 75 claim.
What happened
Mrs B booked a holiday overseas, and this was cancelled because of the pandemic. The 
holiday company refunded 70% of the price of the holiday. Mrs B approached her travel 
insurers and they agreed to refund the difference if AESEL could confirm Mrs B had no 
section 75 rights.
Mrs B contacted AESEL, in July 2020, and asked it to send a letter to confirm she had no 
section 75 rights. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with the time AESEL was taking, so in December 2020 she logged a 
complaint. AESEL responded to say it had made some errors in trying to claim the money 
back and paid £150 in compensation.
AESEL also agreed to prioritise Mrs Bs section 75 claim.
Mrs B received the letter she needed in July 2021. Mrs B was able to recover the extra 
money from her travel insurer.
Unhappy with the way AESEL had handled things, Mrs B brought her complaint to this 
service. An investigator looked into things and thought Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought AESEL should have sent Mrs B a letter to say she hadnt raised a 
section 75 claim. The investigator also thought AESEL should pay a further £200 to 
compensate Mrs B for the time it took to resolve things for her.
AESEL responded to say the letter the investigator suggested wasnt what Mrs B asked for. 
AESEL said Mrs B was looking for a letter to say it couldnt refund her, and it could only send 
this letter after it had investigated a claim.
AESEL asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
In an effort to mediate I contacted AESEL to say I thought it was right to investigate the 
section 75 claim, but it had taken far too long to do this. And I thought AESEL had 
complicated matters significantly by raising multiple, incorrect chargebacks.
AESEL responded to say this service expects it to raise chargebacks first as these are time 
limited. AESEL didnt agree to increase its compensation payment as it felt it had done 
everything it could to help Mrs B in a difficult time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the transcripts of the calls Mrs B made to AESEL. Its clear Mrs B consistently 
explained what she needed  a letter saying AESEL couldnt refund her under section 75.
In the first call AESEL attempts to log two chargebacks, says neither have been accepted 
and Mrs B will receive letters about this. Mrs B never received any letters.
Mrs B called AESEL twice in July, the second call was to chase up letters it never sent.
Mrs B spoke to AESEL again in August, as shed received letters saying she hadnt provided 
supporting documents for her claim. Mrs B realises, during the call, AESEL has set up two 
disputes for the same amount.
In September Mrs B calls again, as shes been told her disputes were unsuccessful as the 
holiday company had already refunded 70% of the holiday. Mrs B is, quite rightly, a little 
frustrated as shes explained quite a few times shes only looking for the 30% back.
In October Mrs B calls again and explains she needs the money as shed been made 
redundant. AESEL explains a rejection letter for section 75 isnt something it can do, but 
does agree to call Mrs B back. Mrs B isnt called back.
It wasnt until the sixth call Mrs B made to AESEL, in November 2020, that it explained the 
difference between chargebacks and section 75. In this call Mrs B is told if the chargebacks 
fail AESEL will start a section 75 claim.
Mrs B calls back in December to explain the situation again. Mrs B is told no section 75 
claim has been set up. Mrs B repeats shes been made redundant and needs the letter for 
her insurance company.
AESEL says it could be months for a section 75 claim, so Mrs B says shed like to raise a 
complaint. AESEL offers Mrs B a £50 gesture of goodwill. But AESEL goes on to say this 
offer will be withdrawn if Mrs B makes a formal complaint.
AESEL also says Mrs B is likely to only get £50 if she does formally complain. Mrs B raises 
the complaint anyway.
I agree with AESEL that its generally good practice to raise a chargeback first. Chargebacks 
must be raised within a certain number of days following the transaction, and if that time limit 
is exceeded the chargeback is invalid.
Raising a section 75 claim first may, inadvertently, time out a chargeback claim.
But I would expect AESEL to raise a correct chargeback, and it didnt do this. AESEL has 
the ability to approach the holiday company for a partial refund, but it didnt initially do this.
Instead AESEL tried to recover all the money Mrs B had paid. This was incorrect, and Mrs B 
had explained, several times, she was only looking to recover the 30% she hadnt already 
been refunded.
And AESEL attempted four chargebacks in all. These chargebacks include a temporary 
refund of the amount in dispute. Mrs Bs holiday was over £7,000. This meant Mrs B incorrectly received a large temporary refund to her card. 
Its clear this large refund was worrying for Mrs B, she raised it in the calls she had with 
AESEL. And AESEL assured her this was the correct process, but I dont think it was.
The attempt to claim back all the money also frustrated Mrs B. Mrs B was made aware the 
holiday company would be told about the claim for the full amount, and this could affect any 
future relationship with it. I think this was a valid concern for Mrs B.
And none of this was Mrs Bs fault, shed clearly explained to AESEL how much needed to 
be claimed back, so any damage to the relationship was likely to be AESELs fault.
AESEL agreed to prioritise Mrs Bs section 75 claim, when it logged it in December 2020. It 
still took until July 2021 to send Mrs B the letter she needed. I think this was too long.
AESEL already had all the information it needed to progress the claim, Mrs B had sent it in 
as part of the chargeback claims. Whilst I understand some section 75 claims are complex, it 
appears AESEL relied on a single clause in the holiday contract to decline Mrs Bs claim.
Since it appears AESEL didnt need to contact either Mrs B or the holiday company, and 
made the decision based on the evidence it already had, Im unsure why it took so long.
And, overall, it had taken a year to send Mrs B the letter she first asked for.
I dont need to consider whether AESEL was correct to decline Mrs Bs section 75 claim, 
since the insurer has already paid out. I need to consider whether AESEL has already fairly 
compensated Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience it caused her, and I dont think it has.
I dont think AESEL did everything it could to help Mrs B. I think AESEL unnecessarily 
delayed Mrs Bs section 75 claim and caused a fair degree of inconvenience during the calls.
Raising incorrect chargebacks was both inconvenient and confusing for Mrs B and it seems 
AESEL never really understood Mrs Bs request until six months after her initial call. And I 
think Mrs B was very clear in what she wanted AESEL to do.
In addition, Mrs B had explained to AESEL shed been made redundant, and needed the 
refund, but it seems AESEL didnt look to get a quicker answer to Mrs B.
I think AESELs poor service cant, alone, be explained by the uncertain and challenging 
period of lockdown at the time. And although I understand AESEL was facing some huge 
challenges, I also think Mrs B wasnt provided with the right level of service.
Putting things right
I think AESEL should increase its compensation payment to £350 in total. AESELs already 
paid Mrs B £150.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and AESEL should pay a further £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 Chris Russ
Ombudsman