DRN-4325884
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr B applied for a personal loan through his mobile banking app. 
Barclays approved the loan - for £9,000, payable over 60 months with monthly payments of 
£171.70, and it was drawndown.
Mr B complained. He said the loan wasnt affordable and Barclays couldnt have completed 
the necessary checks.
Barclays told us that Mr B passed their credit checks. They said theyd worked out that Mr B 
had an income of £845 per month, and after deducting expenses, he had a monthly 
disposable income (MDI) of £310. So  the loan payments were affordable. 
Added to that, Barclays said that it was clear that Mr B had another bank account - as there 
were frequent transfers into his Barclays account from it. Barclays said he had declared 
monthly income of £3,000 in his application for the loan  so that, added to Barclays checks, 
showed the loan was clearly affordable.
Our investigator looked at what Barclays had submitted to us and issued a view that 
Barclays didnt complete enough checks. She looked at Mr Bs Barclays statements  which 
showed income was only £125.91 per month. She could also see a patten of high spending 
at retailers in August 2021. So  she said Barclays shouldve asked more questions than 
they did. She said Barclays should refund all the interest on the loan, and remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file.
Barclays didnt agree. They said it was clear that Mr B had another bank account as his main 
account  and it was likely that his main income was paid into that. They asked that we look 
at his statements for that bank account. Our investigator obtained those but didnt change 
her opinion  so this complaint has now come to me to look at.
I made a provisional decision which said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether 
Barclays acted in line within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew 
about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
Ive looked at Mr Bs complaint in the light of this guidance.
Barclays showed us that when assessing Mr Bs application, they worked out his income at 
£845 per month, and he had a monthly disposable income (i.e. spare money) of £310. So  
based on those figures, Barclays demonstrated that Mr B could afford the loan and agreed to 
it. Even based on this information, I think it was reasonable that Barclays took the decision 
they did and Im satisfied that the necessary proportionate checks were completed.
In addition to that, Mr B said he had income of £3,000 per month when he applied for the 
loan via the Barclays app  so that suggested he had more income than Barclays had 
worked out. But   we wanted to cross check to see the evidence of that income. I say that 
because there was a regular income of only £125 per month paid into the Barclays account.
We asked for Mr Bs statements for his other bank account  as Barclays said they thought 
that his Barclays account didnt show the full picture, and it was likely that his main account 
was held with another bank.
Mr B showed us copies of the statements. The copies arent very clear but Im satisfied that 
they show pension income. There are monthly (or four-weekly) credits totalling 
approximately £2,000. This is more consistent with the monthly income Mr B declared to 
Barclays when applying for the loan. I can also see that the account had an average balance 
of over £3,000 credit. So  he doesnt appear to have been under any financial pressure. 
There were regular transfers from that account to Mr Bs Barclays account.
So, I am satisfied that Mr Bs statements for his other bank account confirmed that his 
income was more than the money which was being paid into his Barclays account.  So   
Barclays made a reasonable decision to lend to Mr B. 
Therefore, this provisional decision is that Barclays did not lend to Mr B irresponsibly, and do 
not have to take any action. But it invites both Mr B or Barclays to make further comments 
and bring any new evidence forward if they wish to do so. (continued)
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclays agreed, but Mr B didnt. He said:
- the income shown on his other bank account wasnt his income, but mostly was his wifes.
- the account also showed income from his ISA, and not regular income.
- He referred to a conversation he had with Barclays on 23 September 2021  he said 
Barclays said the loan could be written off, or reduced, on that call. He referred to 
that in the context of a related complaint brought to our service.
I now need to consider Mr Bs points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at Mr Bs other bank account statements again. They show two pension income 
credits each month  so it looks like those are those of himself and his wife. 
But notwithstanding this  the main point is that Mr B declared on his loan application that 
his income was £3,000 per month, and the bank statements on his other account do 
demonstrate that  as I said in the provisional decision. So  as I said, Barclays decision to 
lend Mr B the money looks to be a reasonable one.
I looked at Mr Bs other complaint which he brought to our service  and the call he referred 
to. I listened to it. Barclays call handler was sympathetic to Mr Bs circumstances and said 
Barclays would look to help him by possibly reducing his monthly payments, but also said 
we cant guarantee anything for you. There wasnt any reference to a commitment to write 
off the loan or reduce the loan amount.
Therefore, having reviewed Mr Bs further points, my final decision is unchanged from the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman