DRN-3926496
The complaint
Mr M complains about a finance agreement he entered into with Automotive Compliance Ltd 
(who Ill call Automotive Compliance), he says he wasnt aware there was a final 
payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I dont think I have sufficient information to suggest this 
agreement was misrepresented to him.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mr M says that what he and two others, who had accompanied him to the dealership, were 
told by the sales agent, wasnt reflected in the finance agreement.
I understand that Mr M is upset our investigator didnt ask for statements from the people 
who had accompanied him. I dont think those individuals could fairly be considered 
independent of this matter, so Ive not been persuaded to ask for that evidence either. 
I think its fair here to rely on the evidence contained in the signed documentation. Mr M 
signed the finance agreement that set out the amount payable and the final payment of 
£6,502.50. Ive also been provided with a copy of the Statement of Demands and Needs 
completed two weeks before Mr M signed the finance agreement. That statement would 
suggest that a Personal Contract Purchase was the most appropriate finance option, in the 
circumstances.
I think Mr M had a responsibility to read the information that he was being provided with, 
before he signed the agreement. I dont think the requirement to make a final payment was 
hidden in the small print, it was clear, and written on the first page of the agreement. And, on 
balance, Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence to suggest there was a 
misrepresentation of the finance. Im not therefore asking Automotive Compliance to take 
any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman