DRN-4425140
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added fees to his overdrafts 
after irresponsibly providing them and allowing him to build up balances.
Background
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that what Lloyds had already 
done  refunding all of the interest, fees and charges added to Mr Gs overdrafts from 
August 2017 and backdating any adverse information to reflect that this was when action 
should have been taken  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already done to put 
things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Mr G has been left with an outstanding balance even though hes been 
refunded all of the extra interest, fees and charges applied to his accounts from August 
2017. And while Mr G has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy with this, 
Lloyds has done what Id normally expect a firm in its position to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr G says Lloyds should do something different here. He says that he had his overdrafts for 
a lot longer than this and he should receive more compensation. 
Ive thought about what Mr G has said. But weve already explained why we cannot look into 
what may or may not have happened on his accounts prior to April 2017. As weve, in some 
detail, explain why were unable to look into Mr Gs concerns prior to this date, I dont 
propose to offer a repeat in this decision. 
Nonetheless, its worth noting that the rules, guidance and good industry practice in place 
typically require a bank to review an account on an ongoing basis. And it is generally 
accepted that a bank should review a customers overdraft usage on an annual basis. In      
Mr Gs case Lloyds undertook a review of his overdraft usage in August 2017. 
Lloyds has identified that it ought reasonably to have taken action in relation to Mr Gs 
overdrafts at this point. And Ive already explained that this is why it has compensated Mr G 
by refunding all of the interest, fees and charges added to Mr Gs overdrafts from August 
2017 and backdating any adverse information to reflect that this was when action should 
have been taken. 
This is the first review that should have taken place in the period that we can look at. Mr Gs 
accounts wouldnt have been reviewed between April 2017 and August 2017. I dont think 
that it would be fair and reasonable for me to now say that Lloyds should carry out a 
retrospective review of Mr Gs overdraft usage in April 2017, because Mr G complaining in  
April 2023 means that we cant look at any reviews which might have taken place in       
August 2016. 
Furthermore, I appreciate that what Mr G is likely to be most unhappy about is still having a 
balance left to repay as a result of his overdrafts even after his complaint. But, as Ive 
explained, all of the extra interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have been 
removed from the overdrafts. So what Mr G is left with to repay are the funds which he used 
and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt that he 
wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr G spent them, I think its fair and reasonable 
to expect Mr G to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr G perhaps being unhappy at 
having a balance to repay is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual 
approach here either.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already done to put things right 
for Mr G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. Im therefore not 
upholding Mr Gs complaint or requiring Lloyds to do anything further. 
I understand that Mr G has asked for some information to query the value of Lloyds refund. 
If he thinks that his outstanding balance might not accurately reflect this refund then he will 
need to contact Lloyds to discuss this in the first instance. 
Additionally, even though I think what Lloyds has already agreed to do is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case, Id nevertheless also like to remind it of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance should it choose to pursue the outstanding balance from Mr G and its 
the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. Im 
therefore not requiring it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman