DRN-4026867
The complaint
Mr A complains that he fell victim to a scam and says HSBC UK Bank Plc should reimburse 
the remaining loss.  
What happened
Mr A found a new build property advertised for sale by a well-established local estate agent. 
He was interested in buying it as a buy to let investment. In March 2022, he paid the 
developer a £1,000 reservation fee for the plot. In addition to this, he paid the developer 
£2,500 for flooring that was due to be installed in the property. 
The purchase fell through when Mr A decided not to proceed any further. He explains it 
came to light at a late stage that the development attracted a service charge. He was also 
concerned about the quality of the building work after visiting the site. 
Mr A wanted the money back hed paid. He pointed out the service charge had not been 
disclosed to him and that the floor hed paid for had not been fitted. Hes provided a 
recording of a conversation where he asked the developer to return the flooring materials 
and obtain a refund for them because hed paid for something that he was not going to 
receive any benefit from. The developer did not return the materials and installed the 
flooring. Mr A says the developer then avoided him and would not answer any calls. 
The estate agent reimbursed Mr A the £1,000 reservation fee hed paid the developer, 
leaving him £2,500 out of pocket for the flooring. Mr A explains that the Police are 
investigating the developer for theft as he installed the flooring after agreeing a refund. 
After seeking advice, Mr A contacted HSBC for help. The bank looked into the matter but 
declined Mr As claim for a refund. In its final response, HSBC said it was not treating the 
matter as a scam and considered the payments are the subject of a civil dispute between 
Mr A and the developer. It paid Mr A £75 compensation to acknowledge there had been a 
delay in reviewing the case.
Mr A disagreed and referred the complaint to this service. He said it couldnt be a civil 
dispute as hed been given a crime reference number. He explained solicitors said if the 
funds were not returned, this was a criminal offence. 
One of our Investigators considered the matter, but she didnt agree that HSBC was 
responsible for refunding the remaining loss. She said Mr A had paid a legitimate company 
and the company not refunding what hed paid after he pulled out of the property purchase 
wasnt the same as a fraud or a scam. She didnt think the developer had always intended to 
defraud Mr A of his money with no intention of selling him the property and she wasnt 
persuaded that failing to provide a refund showed that the developer had set out to scam 
Mr A from the outset. 
Mr A disagreed. He pointed out the Police are investigating so this cant be a civil dispute. 
He suggested that HSBC should have some responsibility for managing money 
appropriately where criminal actions have taken place. He said that banks do refund scam 
victims so he couldnt see how his circumstances were different. He explained he was 
struggling to see how one organisation could say it was a criminal offence and another 
organisation say it was a civil dispute. He said if the Police thought this was a civil case they 
would not have given the offence a crime reference number. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded by Mr As points and still felt the issue was a difference 
of agreement on how to settle matters outstanding from the breakdown of a sale. As no 
agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr A has been through a very stressful time. From his perspective, he wasnt 
given the full facts about the property and hes spent money on flooring that is ultimately of 
no benefit to him. But I should be clear at the outset that I am only looking at whether HSBC 
has treated Mr A fairly. I am unable to make any finding as to whether the developer Mr A 
paid money to has done anything wrong. 
Theres no dispute here that at the time Mr A made the payments to the developer, he was 
happy with the arrangements. This means that the payments are authorised, and Mr A is 
considered liable for them at first instance. However, HSBC was under a range of other 
duties and obligations at the time. Broadly summarised, it was expected to be on the lookout 
for payments that were unusual or out of character with the aim of preventing customers 
from falling victim to fraud and scams. Its also a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. In certain circumstances, that code can 
entitle a customer to be reimbursed by the bank after theyve fallen victim to a scam.
Ive thought about whether HSBC has any obligation to refund the losses as a result of the 
CRM code that it has signed up to. But the CRM code is explicit that it doesnt apply to 
private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services  but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is 
otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Mr A says that the developer has appropriated the flooring from him and has questioned why 
HSBC is not responsible for refunding him in those circumstances. But there is no obligation 
on the bank to refund Mr A because theres the potential for criminal charges in connection 
to the wider matter of whether the developer has stolen from him by installing the floor 
against Mr As wishes. Not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in fact 
a scam. Whilst I can appreciate why Mr A feels aggrieved, there is a high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud. 
In order for me to conclude that the payments Mr A made were part of a scam and that 
HSBC should refund them, Id need to be reasonably satisfied from the available evidence 
that the developer was not legitimate and had set out to defraud him from the outset. But 
I dont think, based on what I know, that I can safely conclude that. 
Mr A visited the property in person and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest it was not 
owned by the developer or that he was not prepared to sell it to Mr A. I am also not 
persuaded that the developer intentionally acted fraudulently by deliberately setting out to 
deceive Mr A at the time he requested the payment for the flooring. I am mindful the 
developer ordered the materials for the flooring, and they were delivered to the site.  Mr A has highlighted that he found the property advertised for sale with a legitimate, well 
established estate agent. If the developer had been intending to defraud purchasers, I think 
it is unlikely he would have chosen to list the properties for sale in this way. 
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship 
with their bank, the evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary bank regarding the way the 
developers account ran indicates that the developer has carried out similar activities for 
some time without any other concerns being raised. If the developer was a rogue trader, Id 
have expected other clients to have made similar allegations. 
On balance, this situation doesnt display the hallmarks most typically associated with a 
scam. I cant safely say that this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof 
for fraud. This is not to say that there is no issue at all between Mr A and the developer. 
Clearly there is. But this type of dispute isnt something that the CRM Code covers. So 
I dont think it was unfair for HSBC to take the view that it was unable to refund Mr A under 
the CRM Code.
In addition, HSBC doesnt have any duty or obligation to intervene in payments that are 
legitimate or to protect its customers from the impact of a bad deal. So, I cant fairly criticise 
HSBC for not doing more when Mr A made the payments. If HSBC had asked him about the 
payments at the time, it would not have uncovered anything that ought to have made it think 
Mr A was at risk of being a victim of financial harm from fraud. 
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish what Mr A has been through. Hes told us how 
difficult things have been for him recently and I know he will be very disappointed by my 
decision. However, for the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Mr A isnt due a refund 
under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are any other grounds on which I could say HSBC 
should, fairly and reasonably, have done more or that it should bear the responsibility for the 
remaining loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman