DRN-2940752
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) wont reimburse her for two transfers 
she made totalling £39,000 from her e-savings account, after she fell victim to an authorised 
push payment (APP) impersonation scam.
What happened
In early December 2019, Mrs S  who was 80 years old at the time  received a call from 
what she believed was her bank (a third-party bank and not YBS). Mrs S was led to believe 
her accounts - one with her third-party bank and one with YBS, were at risk. Mrs S was told 
that all monies had to be removed from the accounts in stages to secure / protect them. The 
number Mrs S had been contacted on had been spoofed  so Mrs S wasnt talking to her 
third-party bank and had in fact fallen victim to cruel impersonation scam. 
Mrs S was led to believe that bank employees were involved, and she would be assisting in 
helping catch the employees involved and that the police were also aware of the ongoing 
investigation.
On 2 December 2019, Mrs S made an online transfer for £19,500 from her YBS e-savings 
account to the account details provided by the scammer. Mrs S, unable to make another 
transfer was then advised by the fraudster to go into branch and make the transfer. The 
fraudster advised that Mrs S would be monitored throughout.
On 3 December 2019, Mrs S attended a branch and attempted to make a further transfer of 
£25,000. Mrs S, having been coached by the scammer as to what to say explained that the 
transfer was for the purchase of a caravan. YBSs branch staff had concerns about the 
payment and that Mrs S may be falling victim of a scam, so Mrs S was taken into a private 
room and the purpose for the transfer was discussed. 
Mrs S explained that the caravan was for her daughter and son-in-law and her son-in-law 
had seen the caravan in person. The branch staff, as they still had concerns, referred the 
matter to its fraud team and a member of the team spoke to Mrs S over the phone while she 
was in branch. The adviser concerned about the transfer, given that it was a large amount of 
money asked questions about the caravan; where had the son-in-law seen the advert for the 
caravan, had the son-in-law seen it and whether it was a private sale? The adviser explained 
that YBS had seen a large increase in scams where customers pay the money but when 
they go to pick up the vehicle it doesnt exist. 
The adviser went on to explain that as it was a large amount of money going to a third-party 
unknown to Mrs S, it would be reluctant to authorise the request. The adviser asked Mrs S to 
speak with her son-in-law to find out where he saw the advert. Mrs S explained that her son-
in-law was clued up on these sorts of things  but the adviser explained that YBSs duty of 
care was to her and not to her son-in-law and it has a duty of care to protect Mrs S money. 
The adviser explained that Mrs S could transfer the money to her son-in-law or write him a 
cheque but reiterated that it was concerned because the money was going to a third-party. 
The adviser explained that once that money had gone and if there wasnt a caravan  there 
would be no way of getting the money back. 
The first payment of £19,500 that Mrs S had made the previous day was then discussed as 
Mrs S said she didnt realise YBS faster payments timescales wasnt within the same day 
and took until the end of the next working day. The adviser then clarified if the £25,000 
Mrs S was attempting to make was going to the same person  and was for the purchase of 
the caravan, which Mrs S confirmed was the case. The adviser placed Mrs S on hold for a 
short period and then confirmed to Mrs S that the £19,500 (from the previous day) had 
already been released and had probably been credited to the receiving account. The adviser 
then explained to Mrs S that before she made the second transfer of £25,000 (for the 
presumed outstanding balance) she should contact her son-in-law to get him to contact the 
buyer before the remaining money was paid. Mrs S confirmed she would. The adviser 
confirmed to Mrs S that she should contact her son-in-law and get him to chase this up to 
ensure that it was legitimate. The call was passed to back to the branch staff  and the 
member of the fraud team explained that they had asked Mrs S to find out more information 
and that when Mrs S did look to make the transfer to ensure that they were contacted again.
Mrs S subsequently returned home and attempted to make a further online transfer of 
£19,500 to the same account details as she had used the previous day. The payment was 
flagged by YBS, and the next day Mrs S subsequently spoke to the same member of YBS 
fraud team she had spoken with in branch the previous day. 
When the fraud adviser spoke with Mrs S  they asked why Mrs S hadnt got in contact prior 
to making the transfer. Mrs S explained that she had gone home and made the transfer as 
planned. The adviser corrected Mrs S and explained that when she had left the branch, she 
had agreed that she would go home and speak to her son-in-law about where he had seen 
the advert and about the first payment  with Mrs S agreeing that she hadnt got in touch 
with YBS as she said she would. The adviser asked whether Mrs S had spoken with her 
son-in-law and Mrs S said yes and he was satisfied  I didnt ask, I forgot to ask 
questions Mrs S then questioned why a further £7,000 transfer she had also made from 
YBS account to her third-party bank hadnt gone through  with the adviser explaining that it 
was because the £19,500 had been flagged so the other £7,000 had flagged also and this 
was for further additional security checks to be carried out. The adviser then explained to 
Mrs S that if she was insistent on making the payment, then if it was a scam, she wouldnt be 
covered and there would be no way of recovering the funds and Mrs S would be taking full 
responsibility for amount. The adviser then asks if Mrs S is happy to go along with that and 
that she doesnt want to do any further checking. There is a pause and then Mrs S says no. 
The adviser explained that this was Mrs Ss decision but that they had tried to raise the 
concerns about scams and that they will get the transfer released. On 5 December Mrs S made another payment for £13,500. This was subsequently cancelled 
and returned to her YBS account as YBS obtained information from the receiving bank that 
raised concerns that the account the transfer was going to was being used fraudulently. 
Mrs S contacted YBS to see why the transfer hadnt gone through and it advised her of the 
information it had found out and that because of this, the funds had been recredited to her 
YBS account. The adviser explained to Mrs S that her account had been restricted and she 
could only make fast payments to accounts in her own name. Mrs S then asked for the 
amount to be transferred to her other third-party bank account which YBS obliged.
Ultimately, having liaised with her daughter, the scam Mrs S had fallen victim to was 
uncovered. Mrs S contacted YBS on 30 December 2019 to report the matter.
YBS looked into Mrs Ss concerns and considered it hadnt done anything wrong and didnt 
consider it was liable for Mrs Ss loss as she had willingly made the transfers. It advised it 
had contacted the receiving bank to try and recover any funds but hadnt heard from it. 
Mrs S, unhappy with YBSs response to the matter, referred her complaint to our service for 
an independent review.
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. They concluded that Mrs Ss 
complaint should be upheld. In short, our investigator thought the scam could have been 
prevented. And Mrs S had lost out as a result. 
Our investigator concluded that YBS should refund the money Mrs S lost as a result of the 
scam and pay simple interest set at 8% on this amount, from the date of the loss to the date 
of the settlement.
YBS disagreed, it remained of the opinion that it had taken the necessary steps to prevent 
Mrs S from falling victim to a scam.
 
As the matter, wasnt resolved, it was passed for an ombudsmans review and decision.
In preparing the case for an ombudsmans review, the investigator reviewed the 
compensation that they had awarded. 
The investigator, upon reflection, considered that in returning Mrs S to the position she 
would have been in had things not gone wrong, then as the funds had originated from 
Mrs Ss e-savings account, fair compensation would be for the return of the outstanding 
amount lost, plus additional compensation at the applicable savings account rate as 
opposed to 8% simple interest. The investigator considered this would put Mrs S back into 
the position, as far as is possible, had things not gone wrong.
Mrs S responded agreeing to the amended compensation. YBS also acknowledged the 
amendment.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to clarify that within this decision I am looking at the two transfers of 
£19,500 Mrs S made. The payments Mrs S made from her other third-party bank account 
have been looked at, and resolved, separately. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (in this case the 2017 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. That was the case in December 2019, and remains so now, and I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:  
Regulated firms like YBS are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In December 2019 those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).   
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in December 2019, I consider firms should 
in any event have taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available. So, Banks (and building societies) have had longstanding obligations to look out for their 
customers best interests and to be alert to instances of fraud. This means that there are 
circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank or building society 
should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, 
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
  
This is particularly so, in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks and building Societies are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether YBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs S when she made the two transfers of £19,500 to a new payee, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Did YBS act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice YBS should have been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
The first transfer Mrs S made for £19,500 didnt flag on YBSs fraud detection system. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the payment made to the scammer was out of 
character and unusual for Mrs S. Having looked at Mrs Ss e-savings account usage, Im 
satisfied it was. I say this because Mrs S, making a transfer for £19,500 to a new payee, 
was unusual and out of character when considering and looking at the accounts typical 
usage.
Given Im persuaded this transfer was unusual and out of character, I think YBS ought fairly 
and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have made enquiries about the purpose 
of the payment before it processed it.
I cant see YBS carried out any additional checks with Mrs S at the time she attempted to 
make the £19,500 transfer. How YBS chooses to configure its fraud detection systems is for 
it to decide. But the question I need to answer here is: based on all the circumstances of 
this complaint, whether YBS ought fairly and reasonably to have done more in Mrs Ss case 
 whether its fraud prevention systems detected the payment or not. And taking all of the 
above into account, I think YBS should reasonably have taken additional steps and made 
additional checks before processing the payment.
 
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had YBS made enquiries with Mrs S 
before processing the transfer. Of course I cant know for sure what wouldve happened, so 
Ive thought about what is more likely than not to have been the case.
In order to do this, I think it is fair and reasonable to look at what happened when YBS did 
intervene when Mrs S attempted to make the second transfer the next day in branch  which 
was flagged and questioned. In essence, what happened when it did intervene and whether I 
consider it did enough  can equate to what would likely have happened as it should have 
intervened with the first transfer. 
With the second transfer  YBS had real concern that Mrs S was at risk of financial harm. It 
took Mrs S aside into a private room and having concerns about the purpose of the transfer 
 for a caravan, it also referred the matter to its fraud team with Mrs S speaking with an 
adviser of the fraud team over the phone. I have to say at this point, that I do think YBS took the correct steps here  and from listening 
to the calls over the course of 3 and 4 December 2019  I can see that it was genuinely 
concerned about the transfer and tried to intervene. But, and importantly, I dont think it went 
far enough and more could and should have been done which I think would have prevented 
the losses. 
Mrs S was 80 years of age at the time, and while age itself isnt an automatic indicator of 
vulnerability  it is common knowledge that elderly people are targeted by scammers. And 
YBS would have been aware of this. So its customer making an out of character large 
payment from their savings account to a new payee should have given YBS cause for 
concern and  as the fraud adviser explained  it had a duty of care to protect Mrs S. 
Listening to the call the adviser had with Mrs S, it is clear that they have serious concerns 
about the legitimacy of the caravan. So at this point, the adviser is  based on the 
information available to them  considering that it could be a false advert and there was no 
caravan. Given the purpose of the transfer I think it was correct for the adviser to explore 
that possibility. But I am also mindful that banks and building societies are aware that 
consumers are often given cover stories for payment purposes. And it is the additional 
probing that can lead to a scam being uncovered. Here, Mrs S didnt really have any 
information about the caravan other than her son-in-law had seen it. The adviser concerned 
that it may be a fake advert asked for Mrs S to go away and ask her son about the caravan 
and gather some further information, such as what advert had he seen. And I think that was 
the right thing to do. And it prevented the transfer from being made. I can see that a note / 
flag was added to Mrs Ss account which meant Mrs S wouldnt have been able to make the 
transfer online  should she attempt it later on.
Again, I think this was the correct thing to do  and again it prevented Mrs S from making the 
transfer which she did attempt later on the same day after leaving the branch and going 
home.
The attempted further transfer Mrs S made later that day, after leaving the branch, meant 
that Mrs S had to call in and had to speak with the same adviser that she had spoken with 
the day before. And the adviser at the start of the call, when Mrs S explained that she had 
gone home and made the transfer as planned, corrected Mrs S. The adviser explained that 
when Mrs S had left the branch, she had agreed that she would go home and speak to her 
son-in-law about where he had seen the advert for the caravan and about the first payment. 
Mrs S agreed that the adviser was right and that she hadnt got in touch with YBS. I think this 
should have flagged as a warning to the adviser that there may be something untoward 
going on.
The adviser asked whether Mrs S had spoken with her son-in-law and Mrs S says: 
yes and he was satisfied  I didnt ask, I forgot to ask questions 
Given that the adviser wanted Mrs S to obtain some information to ensure the legitimacy of 
the caravan purchase  Mrs S saying she hadnt asked any questions should have also 
raised concerns  in essence no further detail about the caravan had been obtained.
I think there was also a question over the amount Mrs S was requesting to transfer. The day 
before, Mrs S had said the transfer (having already paid £19,500) was for £25,000  and 
after leaving the branch she went home and attempted to transfer £19,500  so a difference 
of £5,500.Mrs S then questioned why a further £7,000 she had made from YBS to her third-party bank 
hadnt gone through. So Mrs S, aside from the £19,500, was also requesting a further 
£7,000 to go to her third-party bank account. While it was going to her own third-party bank 
account  Mrs S had made a payment of £19,500 the day before, then attempted a further 
£19,500 and then a further £7,000 to one of her own accounts. Given her account history 
and given the concerns they had about the purpose of the transfer this activity should have 
alerted YBS that Mrs S was more than possibly at risk of financial harm  there were serious 
indications that she was.
The adviser, despite requesting information about the caravan the day before, and Mrs S 
confirming she hadnt asked, and the amount changing from £25,000 to £19,500 and 
alongside the additional request of £7,000 to her third-party bank account  released the 
transfers. The adviser explained to Mrs S that if she was insistent on making the payment 
then if it was a scam, she wouldnt be covered and there would be no way of recovering the 
funds and Mrs S would be taking full responsibility for amount. The adviser then asks if 
Mrs S is happy to go along with that and that she doesnt want to do any further checking. 
There was a considerable pause at this point with Mrs S then saying no. The adviser 
explained that this was Mrs Ss decision but that they had tried to raise the concerns about 
scams and that they will get the transfers released. 
So while I think YBS took a number of correct steps and asked some probing questions  it 
didnt receive any satisfactory answers and released the transfers when, if anything more 
concerns had arisen. And I think it failed in its duty of care here. It clearly had concerns, 
and while it hadnt given consideration to the fact Mrs S may be being coached as to what to 
say, it wasnt to my mind satisfied with the information it had obtained in relation to it being a 
genuine caravan purchase. 
I accept that a bank / building society does have a duty under the Payment Service 
Regulations not to delay payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to 
execute  and reasonable checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory 
landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial 
harm. I accept theres a limit as to what a bank can reasonably do; and I still expect 
consumers to take responsibility for their own decisions  and possibly even bear a 
reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of blame on their own part (see below). 
But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic account activity exist, such as in this 
case, its not unreasonable to expect a banks fraud alerts to respond proportionately. And I 
dont think YBSs response was proportionate given the serious concerns it had. Ill explain 
why.
Having listened to the calls, I do consider there were opportunities for further listening and 
questioning to take place. The calls overall feel brief in nature given the genuine concerns 
YBS had. While the adviser asked some good questions such as where had the son-in-law 
seen the advert, they could have allowed Mrs S to talk about the transfer and its purpose 
and then asked things like; How much is the caravan costing in total? Has the daughter and 
son-in-law contributed to the cost? Was it a present or gift? Would the son-in-law be 
prepared to speak to YBS? Has Mrs S always intended on buying the caravan for her 
daughter and son-in-law? Why had she made the transfer in two amounts  not one?As Mrs S was given a cover story that it was for a caravan for her son-in-law, she didnt have 
too much detail. And YBS had clearly identified the lack of information and had genuine 
concern. So when it asked Mrs S to obtain further information and Mrs S didnt obtain any 
further information and paused for a considerable time when deciding to go ahead with the 
transfer, it should have taken the opportunity to take the time and go into more detail about 
why it needed this information and why it wasnt satisfied. It should have been mindful that a 
common feature of scam related transactions is that customers are persuaded not to tell the 
truth. YBS should have also given a consideration that it was likely that the lack of 
information could be as a result of Mrs S being given a cover story. And it could have 
explained how safe account and impersonation scams look and feel. 
I dont think YBS went far enough given the concerns it had. Had more been done to obtain 
information about the caravan or a more detailed explanation of the other likely scam of 
moving money (under pretence of a cover story) I do think it would have been too much for 
Mrs S and the scam would have come to light and Mrs S wouldnt have proceeded with the 
transfer.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the interaction that occurred with the second transfer, 
should have occurred with the first transfer Mrs S made on 2 December 2019. And had it 
done, Im satisfied Mrs Ss overall losses of £39,000 would have been prevented. 
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Mrs S should bear some responsibility for her loss. But it wasnt until 
Mrs S had spoken with her daughter some time later that she realised it was a scam. Up 
until that point, she was totally duped into considering that she was keeping her money safe 
and was also helping catch fraudsters. All things considered Mrs S was the unfortunate 
victim of a sophisticated scam and I am satisfied she didnt foresee the risk of this sort of 
harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on the particular facts of this 
individual case, I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Mrs S 
was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied YBS should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs S for 
the loss she suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate her for 
being deprived of the money she lost.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
I do not think it was fair and reasonable for Yorkshire Building Society not to refund the 
amount Mrs S lost though becoming a victim of a scam.
I now direct Yorkshire Building Society to:
Refund Mrs S for the total of £39,000 she lost; less any sums recovered and already 
refunded.
Pay the applicable interest rate of the savings account at the time on the £39,000  
as this was where these funds originated. This should be paid from the date of the 
loss to the date of the settlement. 
 If Yorkshire Building Society is legally required to deduct tax from the savings interest, it should send 
Mrs S a tax deduction certificate so she can claim it back from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Yorkshire Building Society. 
I do not think it was fair and reasonable for Yorkshire Building Society not to refund the 
amount Mrs S lost though becoming a victim of a scam.
Yorkshire Building Society should calculate and pay compensation as I have set out above 
within 28 days of receiving notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of my final decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman