DRN-3735515
The complaint
Mr P has complained Santander UK plc treated him unfairly by blocking payments from his 
mobile. He had to go to a branch to get this sorted and believes the compensation paid is 
insufficient.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr P queried a debit card transaction with Santander. He didnt recognise a 
payment for £47.94. In accordance with Payment Services Regulations, Santander refunded 
the money to Mr Ps account. They noted this transaction had been properly authenticated 
so blocked the device used from making further payments.
Within a few days Mr P was trying to use his mobile to buy new van insurance and found he 
couldnt. His mobile was blocked. In the end he had to go into a branch. He was 
disappointed at the time this took and felt £100 compensation which Santander paid was 
insufficient.
Mr P brought this complaint  along with other issues relating to his Santander account  to 
the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. He felt Santander had done nothing wrong in 
blocking the device that was related to a disputed transaction. He didnt disagree with Mr P 
that Santander took some time to sort out the block but overall felt the compensation paid 
was fair.
Mr P continued to disagree. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The first thing here is that Mr P disputed a debit card transaction hed actually authorised. I 
believe he did this in error as he didnt recognise the merchant name appearing on his 
account. Thats not too surprising based on what Ive seen. But I am surprised Mr P didnt 
think there was anything a bit odd about querying a payment for an amount which matched a 
payment he knew hed made. Mr P was refunded £47.94 for a payment he subsequently 
admitted was his.
It was this original dispute  and the way this payment was authenticated  that led to Mr Ps 
mobile device being blocked from making further Santander debit card payments.
I appreciate it must have been extremely annoying for Mr P to have to go to a branch and 
wait for a considerable time to get this sorted. Particularly as he was hoping to buy van 
insurance so was keen to get that completed.
Nobody disputes this didnt cause Mr P issues. Santander paid Mr P £100 for the trouble 
caused. Im aware Mr P thinks this is inadequate but overall I believe this is fair and 
reasonable. Part of the reason Mr P had the problem with his phone being blocked is that 
hed raised a fraud claim for something that wasnt fraudulent. If hed not done this, his 
phone wouldnt have been blocked. So Im satisfied Santander have done enough to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman