DRN-3657453
The complaint
Mr L complains that Phoenix Life Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension arrangement. Mr L thinks 
Phoenix Life Limited didnt comply with the regulatory requirements when it carried out the 
loss assessment completed as part of the Pension Review. 
What happened
Mr L was advised by Hill Samuel Life Assurance Limited (HS) to transfer out of his former 
employers OPS in 1992. HS subsequently merged with Abbey Life Assurance Company 
Limited which then transferred its business to Phoenix Life in 1998. So, Ill refer to Phoenix 
Life throughout this decision.
In October 1994, the regulator at the time set up an industry wide review of certain types of 
advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. This was known as the 
Pension Review. Where mis-selling was identified the regulator set out the method and 
assumptions firms had to use to calculate the level of any redress due.
The advice Mr L was given was subject to the Pension Review. Phoenix Life carried out this 
review in 1998. It concluded that Mr L may have received unsuitable advice. It offered to 
compensate Mr L. It sent him a letter of offer on 22 January 1999. It said it would allocate 
additional units to his personal pension policy in full and final settlement of all existing and 
future claims he may have in respect of the advice hed received. Mr L accepted this offer on 
12 February 1999 and the additional units were allocated to his personal pension policy at 
that time.
In 2021 Mr L says he became aware that Phoenix Life had not carried out the Pension 
Review in accordance with the regulatory requirements. He says:
There was no evidence that Phoenix Life investigated reinstating his pension with his 
former employer;
There was no evidence Phoenix Life had sought information from the OPS about pre-
retirement and discretionary increases before it relied on assumptions when making 
its calculation of loss;
In its calculation Phoenix Life had assumed that the fund management charge would 
be 0.6%. There was no evidence that this was an adequate or plausible assumption;
Phoenix Life had used a policy fee assumption of zero. This was not a plausible 
assumption; and 
Phoenix Life shouldnt have carried out the loss calculations itself  there was a 
conflict of interest.
He complained to Phoenix Life.
Phoenix Life investigated his complaint. It said it had compensated Mr L in accordance with 
the regulatory guidance. Its calculations were based on that guidance and information 
provided by the OPS at the time. Mr L had accepted the compensation in full and final 
settlement in 1999. Mr L didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint. He thought that the methodology used by 
Phoenix Life to carry out its calculations had been in line with the regulators guidance at the 
time. He didnt think there was a requirement for the calculation to have been carried out 
independently. He said that the Pension Review was only required to be carried out once  
despite what may have happened subsequently. Whilst our service did not check the 
detailed calculations carried out during the review we were able to see if there were any 
obvious errors. Our investigator said he couldnt identify any such errors.
Our investigator noted that Phoenix Life had maintained a register of schemes that offered 
reinstatement and its practice was to review that register at the time when it carried out its 
Pension Review. Phoenix had contacted the OPS for information and, on balance, he 
thought it was unlikely that reinstatement wouldve been an option for Mr L.
Having considered everything our investigator didnt think Phoenix Life needed to take any 
further action to resolve Mr Ls complaint.
Because Mr L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice in this case was given in 1992 and the outcome of the Pension Review was 
accepted by Mr L in 1998. Our service cant consider complaints about unsuitable advice 
where the complaint was raised more than six years after the event complained of or (if later) 
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware or ought reasonably to 
have become aware that he had cause for complaint unless the respondent (in this case 
Phoenix Life) has given its consent. Phoenix Life has given its consent for our service to 
consider this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he was given unsuitable advice in 1992 and he will be 
worse off as a result of having been advised to leave his OPS at that time. This has already 
been considered as part of the Pension Review and Mr L accepted the offer Phoenix Life 
made to him in 1999 in full and final settlement of any claim he had against it. 
Phoenix Life accepted that the advice Mr L had been given in 1992 may have been 
unsuitable. The intention of the Pension Review was to compensate Mr L for losses he might 
experience when he came to retire. The Pension Review had to be carried out using 
assumptions provided by the regulator. The nature of assumptions is that they cannot be 
exact  they are an attempt to predict what is likely to happen in the future. The Pension 
Review included assumptions about things like future returns on investments.
It is the case that the assumptions used in the Pension Review, in hindsight, havent turned 
out as expected. So, for example, investment returns have been much lower than predicted. 
And, in practice many people have ended up with a shortfall in their personal pension 
compared to what they wouldve got in their OPS. But, as our investigator said the Pension 
Review was designed to be a one-off exercise based on what the regulator at the time 
thought was a fair methodology using assumptions that it considered to be reasonable. The 
purpose of the Pension Review was to bring finality to both parties without the need to revisit 
the matter many years later. The fact that the assumptions used in the Pension Review 
havent in practice turned out as anticipated is not a reason to undertake the Pension 
Review again.Mr L was provided with a letter, dated 22 January 1999 setting out the findings of the 
Pension Review. The letter included an offer of redress. It also included the following 
wording:
It is important that you read this letter very carefully and take sufficient time to 
decide whether to accept our offer
You may wish to take independent advice before deciding to accept our offer
[This offer] is made in full and final settlement of all existing and future claims
Mr L signed to accept the offer on 12 February 1999.
Mr L says he now believes the Pension Review wasnt carried out in line with the regulatory 
guidance. He has raised several points which I will comment on below:
There was no evidence that Phoenix Life investigated reinstating his pension with his 
former employer.
Phoenix Life has provided evidence to indicate what its processes were at the time it carried 
out the Review. It says it kept a register of schemes where reinstatement was an option. It 
says it wouldve consulted this register and its preferred approach was to offer reinstatement 
in cases where that was available.
It is disappointing that Phoenix Life hasnt been able to provide a copy of the register to our 
service. It has been able to provide evidence to show that it was in contact with the OPS at 
the time and obtained information from it about Mr Ls occupational pension. It is also the 
case that it wouldve been a matter for the discretion of the OPS to decide whether to offer 
reinstatement. Phoenix Life recently contacted the OPS to check the position but the OPS 
wasnt able to confirm that reinstatement was an option at the time.
Having considered everything, Im persuaded, on balance, that if reinstatement had been an 
option at the time Phoenix Life wouldve been aware of that and wouldve tried to pursue that 
option. 
There was no evidence Phoenix Life had sought information from the OPS about pre-
retirement and discretionary increases before it relied on assumptions when making its 
calculation of loss;
Phoenix Life has provided a copy of its Pension Review file. That file contains evidence that 
it did contact the OPS at the time for details of Mr Ls pension. The information on the file 
includes information about pre-retirement increases which says the pension would increase 
in line with RPI. Theres no evidence on file that shows it was likely the OPS would have also 
applied any discretionary increases on top of this. Although our service doesnt have access 
to actuarial services to check the actual calculations carried out under the Pension Review, I 
have looked at the calculation and cannot see any obvious errors in the data input.
In its calculation Phoenix Life had assumed that the fund management charge would 
be 0.6%. There was no evidence that this was an adequate or plausible assumption; 
Phoenix Life had used a policy fee assumption of zero. This was not a plausible assumption. 
As mentioned above, the regulator at the time provided certain assumptions that could be 
used in the calculations. But, although assumptions were used in parts of the calculation for 
things like the assumed rate of RPI, if information was known, like the fees being charged in 
Mr Ls personal pension, it was appropriate for Phoenix Life to use the actual figure Mr L was 
paying in its calculations. Phoenix Life has pointed out that 0.6% was the appropriate figure 
as it related to the only charge applied to the policy in respect of the transfer and the assumption of zero for the policy fee was correct because there were no other charges 
applied to the policy. Im satisfied with Phoenix Lifes explanation, and Ive seen no evidence 
that these figures were incorrect. So, on balance, Im unable to conclude it was inappropriate 
to use these figures in the calculation.
 
Phoenix Life shouldnt have carried out the loss calculations itself  there was a 
conflict of interest.
Mr L says that Phoenix Life shouldnt have carried out the review itself. He says it should 
have appointed an independent specialist to carry out the review. 
There was no regulatory requirement that an independent specialist had to be engaged. So, 
I dont think the fact it carried out the review itself means that the review was flawed. 
There is evidence on the Pension Review file provided by Phoenix Life of internal checks 
carried out at the time. It is also the case that the Pension Review was a very tightly 
regulated process. A sample of calculations would have been checked by the regulator, and 
if there were any systemic problems they wouldve been identified and corrected. The 
regulator also carried out regular oversights to ensure that reviews were undertaken 
correctly. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that because it carried out the Pension Review 
itself, that means Phoenix Life didnt follow the regulatory guidance or that its calculations 
were incorrect.
I appreciate that Mr L may be frustrated with whats happened to the value of his personal 
pension since the date he accepted Phoenix Lifes offer. But, Im satisfied, on balance, that 
the transfer was reviewed in the way that was required by the regulator  which represented 
a fair and reasonable resolution of the matter at that time. So, Im not persuaded there are 
fair and reasonable grounds to look at redressing the matter again. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman