DRN-1336732
 
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited havent paid out on his 
claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Bs dog suffered from an infection in August 2018. Mr B says this cleared up, but then in 
April 2019 he went back to the vets because he thought his dog had another infection. But 
this time the vet said it was more serious, and it was eventually diagnosed as prostate 
cancer. Mr B made a claim on his pet insurance policy, but this was turned down by Red 
Sands, so he complained.
Red Sands replied to the complaint. They said the policy terms excluded pre-existing 
conditions, which Mr B had to agree to when he took out the policy in January 2019. And 
they said when looking at the vets notes in August 2018 there are some pre-existing 
conditions which if Mr B had told them about  they would have excluded. Because of that, 
they felt it was right for the claim to be turned down.
Mr B was unhappy with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
but felt Red Sands had turned down the claim fairly. Mr B didnt agree, he said that the 
infection from August 2018 had cleared up and that he couldnt tell the insurance company 
about any conditions as his dog didnt have any. He also adds the blood tests were perfect, 
and the vets were shocked with the diagnosis.
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe Red Sands have acted fairly. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, particularly because his dog has since sadly passed away. 
Itll help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined insurance
claim is to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in turning down the claim. So, to 
decide this I need to look at the reasons Red Sands have given for turning down the claim 
and determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Mr B took out.
Red Sands have explained theyve turned down Mr Bs claim because it was for a pre-
existing condition. Under the section of whats not covered Red Sands say they wont cover 
any costs or claims for a pre-existing condition, or an illness that showed clinical signs 
before the policy started.
Red Sands have provided a copy of notes from Mr Bs vets from a visit in August 2018. 
These notes say, amongst other things, Digital palpation on rectum shows a mild enlarged 
prostate. 
I understand Mr B says he only took his dog to the vets because of the infection, but I think 
its clear from the notes recorded by the vet, there were potentially issues with Mr Bs dogs 
prostate in August 2018.
Mr B then took out the policy in January 2019, with Mr Bs dog being seen again in April 
2019 for further issues which turned out to be prostate cancer. Ive seen Red Sands 
underwriting guide. I cant share it as its commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied with the 
information it contains.
It says if there were any problems with the dogs prostate before the policy is taken out, then 
cover wont be provided for any prostate conditions, or conditions related to the prostate.
Given the vet recorded prostate issues in August 2018, which was before Mr Bs policy 
started, I think its fair to say this would have been considered as a pre-existing condition if 
Mr B had declared it. This means Red Sands would have most likely placed an exclusion on 
the policy for anything to do with the prostate. So, taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied Red Sands have fairly turned down Mr Bs claim under the policy terms.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman