DRN-1967615
Complaint
Mr A complains Lloyds Bank PLC closed the account of his company when it shouldnt have. 
He asks for the account to be reopened to enable him to switch accounts to another 
provider. He also says he was discriminated against when trying to resolve the matter, and 
he wants compensation for the impact Lloyds actions had on him and his company.
Background
Mr A is a director of a limited company, M. In December 2017 he opened a business account 
in Ms name. The account was free for 16 months, after which a monthly fee of £6.50 was 
charged. Lloyds decided it wanted to close Ms account. No activity had taken place on the 
account besides repayment of account fee arrears. Arrears had continued to accrue causing 
the account into an unarranged overdraft.
Lloyds say it sent a letter in April 2019 giving Mr A 30 days notice of its intention to close the 
account. Mr A doesnt recall this letter. Lloyds sent Mr A another letter in June 2019. That 
letter said Lloyds had noticed no activity on the account, and if it didnt hear back from Mr A 
the account would close after two months.
In July 2019 Lloyds decided to wipe the overdraft balance on Ms account, and it closed the 
account. On discovering the account had closed, Mr A became very concerned and wanted 
to know why. He raised a complaint.
During July and August 2019, Mr A made various visits to a branch of Lloyds, and also made 
calls to Lloyds complaint department while travelling to and when in branch. He says over 
the course of his interactions with Lloyds he was told:
- the account closure was a mistake and Lloyds could reopen his account and he didnt need 
identification.
- he did need identification and only a new account could be applied for.
- Lloyds wouldnt offer a new account because of his interactions with Lloyds staff.
- the activity on his account resembled activity associated with fraud.
Mr A says this caused him a great deal of trouble and distress, made worse because he 
suffers from several medical conditions which impact on his physical health and well-being. 
He made multiple trips to branch and had to wait for a long time to be seen. He thinks he 
was racially profiled due to the comment made about fraud, and also because his name is 
identifiably from an African country. He recalls speaking to someone on the phone in relation 
to his complaint and they were condescending and mispronounced his surname.
Mr A says the closure meant he couldnt agree important contracts with suppliers on Ms 
behalf. More specifically he says an account needs to be open for at least a year in the 
market he wanted M to operate in. Closing the account and not re-opening it detracted from 
M as a commercial proposition.Lloyds says it was entitled to close the account, and the letter it sent in June 2019 didnt 
prevent it from closing the account in July 2019. In total Mr A had over 90 days since the 
letter it sent in April 2019 to find an alternative account provider. Lloyds werent going to offer 
a new account and its decision to close the old account was based on a lack of account 
activity. Lloyds did however offer £75 as a result of not calling Mr A back on several 
occasions during the course of the complaint.
An investigator at our service considered Mr As complaint. In summary they found:
- Lloyds were entitled to close the company account and closed it in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
- Lloyds sent Mr A notice that the account would close in April 2019. Considering the 
account actually closed in July 2019, this was a reasonable amount of time.
- Lloyds didnt close the account because of fraud concerns but because of the lack of 
account activity.
- The offer of £75 was fair.
Mr A strongly disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. He thought they hadnt 
understood his complaint. He provided a copy of the letter he received in June 2019. The 
investigator reviewed this information but found it didnt change the outcome of the 
complaint.
Mr A has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirmed Mr As complaint points and asked him for more information about his medical 
situation. He confirmed what conditions he has and how they affect his everyday life, which I 
thank him for. Mr A has my sincere sympathies regarding the impact his conditions have on 
him  I appreciate having to go to a branch of Lloyds multiple times in short succession must 
not have been easy.
I find what Mr A has said about having to wait in branch and being concerned about his 
health plausible. From listening to the calls he made to our service while in branch, its 
evident he was distressed, and the impact interacting with Lloyds had on him may have 
been made worse because of his medical situation.
I accept its also possible in the dealings Mr A had with Lloyds, both on this occasion and in 
the past  such as when he wanted to apply for a business loan  that he revealed he 
suffers from medical conditions. Lloyds appear to have recorded some of this information in 
August 2019, but its not evident anything was recorded previously.
If Lloyds were given notice of Mr As situation before August 2019, it ought to have explored 
what if anything it could do to support Mr A. For example, it mightve considered taking 
particular care to provide accurate information, such as whether identification was needed, 
or whether an account could reopen once it was closed. Or it mightve looked into limiting Mr 
A coming into branch through proactive and regular telephone contact.So, its possible there were some service failings on Lloyds part. But the issue of whether 
Lloyds caused Mr A personal distress and inconvenience is not something I can award 
compensation for in terms of this complaint. I know this will be of great disappointment to Mr 
A, so its very important I explain why.
The Financial Ombudsman Service cannot always consider every aspect of a complaint that 
is brought before us. What we can and cant consider is very much dictated by our 
jurisdiction  that is to say, what we have the legal power to consider and what we dont.
The jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service is set by Financial Conduct Authority in 
the dispute resolution rules (DISP), which form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. The rules dictate what I can and cant decide. Indeed, any decision made outside 
of the rules would be unenforceable.
One important aspect to our jurisdiction is the eligibility of the person bringing a complaint. 
Here, Mr A brings the complaint on behalf of his limited company, M. The relationship Lloyds 
had was with M, and not with Mr A as a consumer. And the complaint surrounds what 
happened to the business account M held, and whether the account ought to have been 
reopen.
Mr A interacted with Lloyds a great deal, and much of his complaint is about his experience. 
But because Mr A chose to incorporate his company, this created two separate legal 
persons. In other words, Mr A represents M, but he doesnt have a customer relationship 
with Lloyds in his own right. He may feel he and his company are one and the same, and 
this is understandable, but under DISP this is not the case.
The above is important because of what Mr A has asked me to consider. I find that I can only 
consider losses M experienced and not losses which are personal to Mr A, unless they 
somehow impacted on M. Simply put, a limited company cannot experience personal 
distress or upset at the hands of Lloyds. So, Mr As distress and frustration are not losses 
experienced by M.
This doesnt prevent Mr A bringing a claim about the losses he says he personally 
experienced elsewhere, such as a court of law. But it does mean I cant consider them under 
this complaint. What I must consider is whether Lloyds treated M fairly, and if it didnt, what 
loss if any was caused to M.
The closure of the account
Lloyds has the discretion to close an account if it wants to. Its decision isnt something I 
would interfere with providing Lloyds reasons for closing an account were legitimate. This is 
similar to the freedom Mr A had to terminate Ms relationship with Lloyds if he wanted to.
Mr A believes Lloydss decision to close the account stems from being racially profiled. His 
surname is identifiable as belonging to someone from a specific African country. And he 
thinks his account wouldnt have closed if this wasnt the case.
 
 
Mr A recalls being told the way he used the account is typical of accounts closed because of 
fraud. He finds this comment related to his ethnicity rather than his use of the account, as he 
is in no way a fraudster. And he thinks a Lloyds employee was condescending on the phone 
and they failed to take care when pronouncing his surname.Ive listened very carefully to what Mr A has said, and I made sure I understood his exact 
complaint points prior to reaching this decision. Based on his response, I dont doubt he 
believes Lloydss motivations for closing his account were discriminatory. But I havent found 
Lloyds reasons for closing Ms account were motivated by anything other than commercial 
factors.
I accept a Lloyds employee couldve made a remark that accounts like Ms were usually 
closed because of fraud concerns. And, I understand why Mr A would take offence at such a 
comment. But Ive no reason to fairly conclude that a comment like this was made because 
of Mr As ethnicity. Lloyds may reasonably expect a business account to show commercial 
activity after being open for some time. And it may decide that an account which doesnt 
show commercial activity is outside its risk appetite.
Lloyds records show the person Mr A spoke to over the phone mispronounced his surname. 
And I understand why Mr A took offense. Care should be taken to pronounce his surname, 
just as care should be taken to pronounce any customers surname. But I dont find this error 
was symptomatic of an underlying approach towards Mr A based on his ethnicity which 
resulted in the closure of Ms account or not offering M a new account.
Mr A says M is likely to have lost out on opportunities with suppliers because of the account 
closure. For M to be a viable proposition it needed an account to be open for at least a year. 
But Lloyds were entitled to review whether to continue to provide M with an account. In fact, 
its obliged to periodically review accounts in order to ensure its meeting its legal and 
regulatory obligations.
Im satisfied that a fee-paying business account which hasnt had any substantive 
transactions recorded for nearly two years is something Lloyds could fairly decide to 
terminate. This is particularly the case when arrears accrued on the account, which meant 
the account terms were being breached.
Mr A has given plausible reasons on why Ms account was to all intents and purposes 
dormant. M wasnt fully up and running. And Mr A was looking for a business loan to buy 
stock. Hed even put together a comprehensive business plan which hed presented to 
Lloyds earlier that year. He also knew not to make personal transactions on the account, and 
he thought paying off arrears would represent valid account activity.
Mr A is right not to have used Ms account for matters unrelated to M. And Ive no reason to 
disbelieve that he thought accruing arrears and paying them off was valid activity. But Mr As 
earnest efforts to try and get M going as a business going isnt a sufficient reason for Lloyds 
to have kept the account open. Lloyds were not under an obligation to keep the account 
open for a set time or until M was operational. Indeed, the account had been open some 
time for this to happen.
I understand too why Lloyds might conclude it didnt want to continue providing an account 
which had a monthly fee when M wasnt up and running, and the account wasnt being used 
as it would expect. This wouldnt appear to be a satisfactory situation for either party.
On balance Im satisfied Lloyds closed Mr As account based on valid commercial 
considerations.
Was correct notice given?
Lloydss electronic system records a notice to close letter was sent to Mr A in April 2019. 
That letter wouldve said he had 30 days to find another account before Ms account would 
close. Mr A cannot recall receiving that letter. But I think the letter was likely sent.Mr A may not have noticed or read the letter, as sometimes happens, but that doesnt 
invalidate its effect. Lloyds after all cant be responsible for ensuring a notice to close is read 
- only that it sent valid notice to the address it had for M. So, I find correct notice was given 
under the terms of the account.
Lloyds didnt however close Mr As account after 30 days had passed. But Im satisfied 
Lloyds werent obliged to close the account on 30 days passing  the notice instead entitled 
it to close the account once that time had passed.
Lloyds hasnt given a reason as to why it didnt close the account earlier. But I think its 
probably due to the outstanding overdraft balance on the account. I find its not uncommon 
for accounts to remain open after a notice period ends when outstanding balances remain. 
And, I see Ms account stayed open until 8 July 2019 and only closed when Lloyds wiped the 
balance that same day  effectively voiding any obligations Mr A had to Lloyds.
What confuses matters is the letter Lloyds sent Mr A on 19 June 2019. It said Mr As account 
hadnt been used for some time and if Lloyds didnt hear back from him, it would close the 
account after two months. I can understand Mr As concern and confusion when finding out 
the account had closed in July. He clearly wasnt expecting this, and its quite possible he 
was told the closure was a mistake in view of the June letter in his possession.
This was an error on Lloyds part, and it impacted on Mr A personally. I find this couldve 
been avoided to some extent. But for the reasons Ive explained I cant award compensation 
to his company on the basis of losses which only affected Mr A.
I dont find Lloyds error was enough to invalidate the previous notice it sent or that it meant it 
had to keep the account open for longer than it did. But, even if I did make this finding, its 
not evident M experienced a direct financial loss as a result. I find the issue of Mr A trying to 
obtain a loan to get M up and running was still ongoing at that time, irrespective of the matter 
of the account. So, I dont think I can conclude with sufficient certainty that M lost out on 
business deals as a result.
Mr A has mentioned he may now be able to get a business loan through a government 
scheme, which is good news. But I dont think it is for Lloyds to offer a business account to M 
now if it chooses not to. Im satisfied Mr A wasnt prevented from trying to open a business 
account elsewhere after Ms account closed, and he also ought to have mitigated against M 
not having an account if he still intended to obtain a business loan.
I am not directing Lloyds to reopen Ms account to enable Mr A to transfer the account to 
another provider.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or reject my 
decision before 1 September 2020. 
Liam King
Ombudsman