DRN-3833333
The complaint
Mr C has brought this complaint to our service in his capacity as a director of a limited 
company N. 
Hes unhappy Lloyds Bank Plc decided to review Ns undesignated client account and told 
him the account would be closed.
What happened
N is an insurance brokerage firm. Mr C has explained that N is required by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to keep client funds in a separate bank account. So, N held an 
undesignated client account with Lloyds Bank. 
In March 2022, Lloyds Bank wrote to N to explain that there were some changes to 
regulations that affected its undesignated client account. And that to continue using the 
account, N would need to meet certain criteria under Anti Money Laundering rules, or it 
might need to open a different type of account.
Lloyds Bank asked N to complete a questionnaire to decide if it met the criteria under the 
rules to continue using the undesignated client account. Following a review of the 
information N provided, Lloyds Bank explained that theyd interpreted the regulations and 
made a policy decision on which types of professions theyd be able to offer an 
undesignated client account. And while they recognised that N has a regulatory obligation to 
have a pooled client account, they werent able to continue offering it the undesignated client 
account under their policy. 
They said N had two options available, to either open up a maximum of 10 individual 
designated client accounts and close the undesignated client account or seek alternative 
arrangements with another bank. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C raised a complaint. But because of the time Lloyds Bank were 
taking to respond and provide an answer, N decided to move its banking elsewhere. Lloyds 
Bank apologised for the delay in responding to the complaint. They explained that they had 
reviewed their approach to undesignated client accounts and N might be able to keep the 
existing account. 
Lloyds Bank explained that N would need to complete a questionnaire for their review. 
Following their review, it was still possible that that they may need to offer a suitable 
alternative or close the account. They said theyd provide 60 days notice as per the terms 
and conditions if they decided to close the account. They also apologised for giving a 
different answer previously.
Mr C referred the complaint to our service. He explained N had to write to all its clients 
advising them of its new account details, changed all its direct debits, standing orders etc. to 
the new bank account. He explained hed had a lot of stress as he was concerned that 
Lloyds Bank would put N in a position where it breached the regulations on holding client 
money. He wanted Lloyds Bank to accept they were wrong and pay compensation for the 
additional work and stress caused.
Our investigator said that Lloyds Bank were allowed to review the products and services 
they provide. Since N retained access to the account while the review took place and the 
account hadnt been closed, he didnt think it was reasonable to ask Lloyds Bank to 
compensate N for the inconvenience caused by opening an account elsewhere. He also 
thought the apology given by Lloyds Bank for the delays in responding to N was fair.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He explained that 
Lloyds Bank had informed N that the account would be closed. He said that N didnt have a 
choice but to start the process to find an alternative account while Lloyds Bank looked into 
the complaint. He said N couldnt wait for Lloyds Bank to make a decision as it didnt want to 
breach the law and Lloyds Bank wouldve only given it one months notice before they closed 
the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds Bank have legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. These obligations are ongoing and to comply, Lloyds Bank may need to 
review accounts which may sometimes lead to the account being closed. 
The business banking general conditions of Ns account allow Lloyds Bank to review the 
account and change the provisions at any time. This means Lloyds Bank are entitled to carry 
out a review of Ns account. 
In this case, the review of Ns account was prompted following changes to regulations that 
impacted its account. So, I cant agree that Lloyds Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
reviewing Ns account to decide if it still met the criteria under the rules and their policy.
The terms and conditions of the account allow Lloyds Bank to close an account without 
giving a reason, by providing at least two months notice in writing. So, Lloyds Bank are 
within their rights to decide to close an account. 
Lloyds Bank initially told N that its undesignated client account would be closed based on 
their interpretation of the regulations and how they applied it to their policies. Generally 
speaking, our service doesnt interfere with the day-to-day running of a business, such as 
setting an account eligibility criteria and their policies. Lloyds Bank are entitled to use their 
commercial judgement to make these decisions. 
My role is to look at whether Lloyds Bank have followed their policy correctly in their initial 
decision to close Ns undesignated client account. I dont think its relevant for me to make a 
finding on this point as the issue here isnt whether Lloyds Bank followed their policy. 
Instead, Mr C has questioned Lloyds Banks initial policy decision itself to not offer 
undesignated client accounts to insurance brokers. 
We dont have the power to review or to ask Lloyds Bank to change their policies and 
procedures. This falls within the remit of the financial services regulator, the FCA. I 
understand Mr C has already complained to the FCA.Even if Lloyds Bank had wrongly applied their policy in initially deciding to close Ns 
undesignated client account, Im satisfied their apology is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Although Lloyds Bank told N that its undesignated client account would be closed, they 
hadnt served the two months notice in writing yet. They placed giving N its notice to close 
the account on hold while they reviewed the concerns Mr C raised and reconsidered their 
approach to undesignated client accounts. During this time, Ns account remained active and 
fully operational. I think this was the right thing for Lloyds Bank to do in this situation.
I understand Ns reasons for moving its banking elsewhere before it received an answer 
from Lloyds Bank. But I have to also bear in mind that this was a decision N made knowing 
that Lloyds Bank might possibly change their position on the matter, as they made it clear Mr 
Cs concerns were under review  meaning it might not need to open an account elsewhere. 
So, Im satisfied N didnt have to move its banking elsewhere pending Lloyds Banks review. 
It follows, I cant fairly hold Lloyds Bank responsible for the inconvenience caused to N for a 
business decision it made to change its banking provider before receiving an answer from 
Lloyds Bank and the two months written notice to close the account was given. 
That said, I accept that N has been caused some inconvenience by initially being told its 
account would be closed. I also agree that Lloyds Bank caused delays in responding to Mr 
Cs complaint which wouldve also caused N further inconvenience.
Lloyds Bank have acknowledged these issues and have apologised. Ive thought about the 
impact this had on N and whether the apology goes far enough to put things right. Im 
satisfied that it does as dealing with financial services isnt always hassle free and 
occasionally things do go wrong. 
Its not unusual to experience some inconvenience, frustration, and annoyance. And it 
doesnt mean that in every case compensation should be paid. Sometimes, an apology is a 
fair way to put things right.
I know Mr C feels strongly about the complaint. I dont doubt that these issues have caused 
him stress, frustration and annoyance. But I cant take into account the distress caused to Mr 
C personally as part of this complaint as the complainant here is N, not Mr C.  
All things considered, given that Ns account remained open, and it could continue with its 
banking activities while Lloyds Bank reviewed matters, I dont think the inconvenience 
caused was significant enough to warrant compensation. Under the circumstances, I think 
an apology is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking Lloyds Bank to do anything else to 
put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman