DRN-3873070
The complaint
Mr L complains that British Friendly Society Limited (hereafter British Friendly) said he 
misrepresented his position when applying for his income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr L, a pilot, purchased a British Friendly income protection policy in June 2019. The policy 
was designed to provide a regular benefit if Mr L became incapacitated due to illness or 
injury which resulted in a complete or partial loss of income. 
In November 2020 Mr L was signed off work by his GP due to stress, anxiety, and low mood. 
He was provisionally suspended from flying due to acute psychological distress in 
December 2020 too. And although furloughed at the time, he made British Friendly aware 
that he might need to claim on his policy if the furlough payments were to stop. 
British Friendly said it would need to decline Mr Ls claim; based on the contents on his 
medical records it thought hed misrepresented his history of chest pain and mental illness 
when applying for the policy. 
Following a complaint British Friendly changed its position. It explained it would have applied 
a mental health exclusion to Mr Ls policy and charged a higher premium for it had it not 
been for his misrepresentation. So in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 said it would need to proportionally settle the claim. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr L cancelled his policy and asked that his premiums be refunded. 
Although British Friendly adhered to that request, Mr L still felt he hadnt misrepresented his 
position so referred his complaint to this service and said he wanted interest on the refund 
too. 
Our investigator didnt think a qualifying misrepresentation had taken place that would have 
affected Mr Ls policy. But they acknowledged Mr Ls policy was no longer in existence, he 
hadnt suffered any loss in income, and hed already received a refund of premiums. So 
recommended British Friendly pay Mr L £300 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience the matter had caused him. 
Mr L accepted that recommendation but British Friendly did not. It reiterated that Mr L had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides are aware, the relevant law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). And 
the standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care the insurer has certain remedies it can take, 
provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For there to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
And the remedy available to the insurer will then depend on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Here, British Friendly says Mr L failed to take reasonable care when completing a medical 
questionnaire as part of purchasing the policy by answering no to two questions. Ill address 
each in turn.
The first question
The first question British Friendly say Mr L misrepresented his position on was: 
Heart, Circulation and Blood
Have you had any disease or disorder of you heart including irregular heartbeat, palpitations 
or chest pain?
This was a clear question, and Mr L answered it with no. But looking at the available 
evidence I dont think it was unreasonable of British Friendly to say he should have 
answered it as yes because Mr Ls GP medical records showed:
He approached his GP on 17 January 2017 with chest pain/tightness. 
He reported experiencing that chest pain for about a week  with it lasting up to a 
maximum of 30 minutes when at rest both morning and night. 
Hed been asked to see his GP again if the chest paint did not get better and had 
been advised to go to casualty if it worsened or he got new symptoms. 
So I cant agree that Mr L took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering the above question. 
However, as I think our investigator rightly explained, British Friendlys approach to what it 
would have done differently appears to largely centre on the mental health related matters in 
this complaint. Im not quite persuaded its shown this service it would have taken any other 
action as a result of this sole misrepresentation. So although I agree Mr L did misrepresent 
his history of chest pain, I cant conclude the misrepresentation was qualifying as thered be 
no remedy available under CIDRA here. 
The second question
The second question British Friendly say Mr L misrepresented his position on was: 
Mental Health
Have you ever had any mental illness including depression, stress, anxiety, low mood, 
eating disorders or insomnia or have you ever been referred to a psychiatrist, psychologist or 
counsellor?
Again this was a clear question, but like the investigator before me Im not persuaded Mr L 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering it. British Friendly says Mr L had consultations with his GP in 2017 that supported hed had 
some stress and had tests relating to anxiety and depression. It also says theyd shown he 
was suffering from mild symptoms of anxiety and depression and had been sign-posted to 
self-help tools. 
Mr L says he was working long hours as a pilot and had approached his GP to ensure the 
fatigue he was experiencing at the time wasnt being caused by anything in particular. He 
acknowledges he was anxious about how tired hed been feeling all the time. But says any 
mild worry or anxiety he felt about that condition was natural given he hadnt felt such fatigue 
before and he thought the right thing to do was check in with his GP at the time. 
Mr Ls GP medical records cite some stress in the consultation regarding his chest pain on 
17 January 2017. This is the only reference to stress in an otherwise detailed note solely 
focussing on chest pain however, and theres nothing else within the entry to establish the 
context in which the singular reference to some stress was discussed. 
Mr Ls GP medical records also show that he approached his GP on 31 May 2017 with 
symptoms of lethargy. The notes surrounding this consultation set out that Mr L felt overly 
tired all the time, had been experiencing a worsening of this over the last few weeks, and 
was concerned that he may have a physical illness. They detail that Mr L was feeling under 
pressure too, but set out there were no clear features of either depressive or anxiety 
illness. 
The plan at that consultation was noted as getting both thyroid function and full blood count 
checked, PHQ9 and GAD7 questionnaires complete, and a self-referral to NHS talking 
therapies considered.
When Mr L saw his GP two weeks later on 12 June 2017 he was noted as feeling brighter. 
The notes surrounding this consultation set out that Mr L hadnt referred himself to the 
talking therapies previously referenced, was still feeling some fatigue and worrying about 
that, but felt more relaxed and there were no concerns about his ability to work. The PHQ9 
questionnaire had scored 4 which I can see from external sources indicates a depression 
severity of none. And the GAD7 scored 5 which I can see is a cut off point for mild anxiety.  
I accept theres reference to some stress in Mr Ls GP records, that PHQ9 and GAD7 
questionnaires were completed and information about self-referral to talking therapies was 
given too. I am however mindful that the crux of Mr Ls reasons for presenting to his GP at 
the time of concern do appear to have centred on him experiencing physical conditions  
namely chest pain and later lethargy  which is in line with what Mr L has explained. 
I am also mindful that Mr Ls GP provided a claims report to British Friendly on 5 September 
2021. Within this they advised that Mr L was suffering from stress, anxiety, and low mood, 
but said hed first presented with this on 12 November 2020 and hadnt consulted with them 
or any other doctor for treatment or advice about these conditions previously. 
So given what Mr L has said about his reasons for answering no to the above question, the 
content of his GP records, and the information provided by his GP in the claims report, I 
dont think theres enough on this occasion to conclude that reasonable care wasnt taken by 
Mr L when he answered the above. 
British Friendly has shown it would have acted differently had Mr L answered yes. But as I 
dont think he failed to take reasonable care in answering no, Im not persuaded that a 
qualifying misrepresentation took place here either. 
I would however like to reassure British Friendly that this complaint was somewhat finely balanced, and while I can appreciate why it considered there to have been a qualifying 
misrepresentation in all the circumstances I cannot fairly agree with its position on this 
occasion.
Putting things right
As both parties are aware Mr Ls policy no longer exists; British Friendly cancelled it in line 
with Mr Ls request and it has already refunded all of his premiums. 
Mr L has asked for interest on that refund but I dont think that would be appropriate here. 
Rather, and for mainly the same reasons already explained by our investigator, I agree that 
Mr L was put to some unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of British 
Friendlys actions and the £300 compensation already recommended would be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact that. So that is what I am now directing it to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
British Friendly Society Limited should put things right in the way I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman