DRN-2968124
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc acted irresponsibly by allowing him to continue to 
use his overdraft after he repaid the overdrawn balance in 2018. He says that Lloyds also 
should not have given him a loan a few months later. 
Mr H has experienced personal difficulties which he says he told Lloyds about, and he says 
this is why Lloyds should have taken steps to limit his further borrowing.
What happened
Mr Hs father, who is representing him in this complaint, initially told us that Mr H had a 
branch meeting on 18 November 2018 where he explained his personal circumstances to 
Lloyds and detailed how those circumstances were causing him problems with managing his 
money. At that time Mr Hs father had paid funds into Mr Hs account to repay the overdrawn 
balance on the condition that Mr H speak to Lloyds to arrange to have the overdraft limit 
removed. But the overdraft limit remained on the account, and a few months later Lloyds 
also agreed to give Mr H a loan for £6,000.
I note that in his most recent correspondence with us Mr Hs representative has said that the 
branch meeting took place on 18 February 2019. So for completeness I have looked at what 
happened around both of these dates.
Mr Hs representative complained to Lloyds on his behalf in August 2019. Lloyds responded 
to say that it had no record of Mr H telling it about his circumstances prior to the complaint 
being made, and so didnt agree it had acted inappropriately. But in recognition of Mr Hs 
difficult circumstances, Lloyds offered to refund all the daily overdraft fees applied to the 
overdraft since November 2018 and to reduce the overdraft limit on the account to reflect the 
new overdrawn balance. Lloyds also offered to move the loan account to its collections 
department, which would stop any further interest from being applied to Mr Hs loan, and to 
refund any interest hed already paid (Lloyds did though note that this would result in 
negative information being recorded on Mr Hs credit file). Lastly, Lloyds said it would be 
happy to reconsider its offer if Mr H was willing to provide evidence of his personal 
circumstances at the time his overdraft was increased in December 2018 and when the loan 
was agreed in February 2019.  
Mr H and his representative were unhappy with Lloyds offer and so referred the complaint to 
our service. One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint, she felt that what Lloyds 
had offered was fair given that there was no evidence that a meeting had taken place or that 
Lloyds had been aware of Mr Hs difficulties prior to the complaint being made in August 
2019. 
Mr H and his representative disagreed with the adjudicators findings, they said that it was 
for Lloyds to prove that no meeting had taken place, and that Lloyds actions had fuelled 
Mr Hs overspending, so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already offered to do for 
Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. Ill explain why I think 
this is the case. 
Mr H and his representative have said that Mr H told Lloyds of his difficulties in a meeting in 
either November 2018 or February 2019. Lloyds has provided all the usual contact notes 
and complaint notes that we would expect to see, and those notes dont show any record of 
a meeting taking place around those times. Lloyds has also confirmed that it has asked the 
specific branch about whether they had any meeting with Mr H, but because of staff turnover 
and the fact that the branch has moved premises, they were unable to find out anything 
more unless Mr H could give them more detail about the meeting.
Mr H and his representative say that it is for Lloyds to prove that a meeting didnt take place, 
but Im satisfied that Lloyds has carried out reasonable checks to see if there is any record of 
a meeting. And there is nothing to show that Mr H did visit his branch during this period of 
time.
So with the evidence I have before me, I cant fairly say that Lloyds should have taken steps 
to stop Mr H from borrowing further as I cant see that Lloyds was told about Mr Hs financial 
difficulties.
And in any case, even if I were to find that Lloyds had done something wrong, I wouldnt tell 
it to do anything more than it has already offered to do.
It might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something 
wrong, wed expect it to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong 
hadnt taken place. But we also have to bear in mind that the debt itself, aside from any 
charges or interest, is made up of money that the consumer has spent. So where a business 
continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have realised was 
unsustainable, or lent to a consumer when it shouldnt have, wed typically expect it to put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and 
charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and 
charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was 
unsustainable, or refund any charges and interest added to a loan that was provided 
irresponsibly. 
And that is what Lloyds has already offered to do here. So bearing all of this in mind, Im 
satisfied that what Lloyds has offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr H to 
decide whether he wishes to accept Lloyds offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank plc has already offered to 
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his case. So Im 
not upholding Mr Hs complaint, and wont require Lloyds to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman