DRN-3182518
The complaint
Miss A complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved a 
credit card with a  £250 limit. 
What happened
Miss A applied for an Aqua credit card in July 2015. Miss A told Aqua she was employed 
with an income of £34,000 and lived with family. Miss A said she had unsecured debts of 
around £1,500. Aqua completed a credit search but says it didnt find any arrears, defaults or 
other adverse information. A credit card with a limit of £250 was approved. 
The account fell into arrears and was ultimately closed with a default being recorded on Miss 
As credit file in June 2018. The debt was later sold to a third party. 
Last year, Miss A complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly but it didnt agree. Miss A 
referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
didnt uphold Miss As complaint and said Aqua had completed proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend. Miss A asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Aqua had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Miss A could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Aqua says it took information Miss A provided in the application along with 
details found on her credit file. Aqua has also pointed out its criteria allows some adverse 
credit, including defaults, and that it approved a low credit limit of £250.
Ive looked at the credit file information Aqua obtained. Whilst I note Miss A has provided 
some final response letters issued by other lenders that confirm accounts were defaulted 
before she applied to Aqua, that information wasnt shown on the credit report it obtained in 
July 2015. Im satisfied Aqua didnt find the defaults Miss A has told us about when it 
completed its credit search as part of the application process. 
I can see Miss A has provided a copy of her credit file from January 2020 and final 
responses from other businesses that say accounts were in default. But I cant see any 
defaults that predate the Aqua application from either of the businesses that issued final 
responses. And whilst there is an account with a default that predates Aquas credit card, the 
entry itself wasnt registered until October 2016. 
Miss As application said she earned £34,000 and was living with family. Taking Miss As 
income, personal circumstances and the information Aqua found on her credit file into 
account, Im satisfied it did complete proportionate checks before agreeing to lend. I havent 
been persuaded that its decision to approve a credit limit of £250 was irresponsible. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss A but as Im satisfied Aqua did carry out proportionate checks 
and havent found it lent irresponsibly, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman