DRN-4487110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) unfairly turned down 
their claim under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
respect of a timeshare product they financed. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have held timeshare products since around 2013 purchased through a 
supplier who Ill refer to as D. In or around November 2017, they attended an update 
meeting with D during which they agreed to increase their existing points holding in a 
timeshare membership product previously supplied by D.
The purchase agreed provided an additional 5,000 points which could be used against 
holidays, accommodation and experiences from within a portfolio operated by D. The 
purchase price agreed of £7,500 was funded under a regulated fixed-sum loan agreement 
over 123 months and provided by Shawbrook in their joint names.
In or around February 2022, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr and Mrs 
P submitted a claim to Shawbrook under the CCA. The CMC said that during the sales 
meeting in in November 2017, D made a number of representations about the membership 
benefits which turned out not to be true. And it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs P to enter into the purchase contract with D. They believe that under 
section 75 of the CCA (S75), Shawbrook are jointly liable for any misrepresentation. In 
particular, the CMC allege that D told Mr and Mrs P:
the membership was an investment;
they could access more holidays and unique to the supplier; and
the scheme had a guaranteed end date, after which they would have no further legal 
liability.
The CMC also allege that an unfair relationship exists between Mr P, Mrs P and Shawbrook 
under section 140A of the CCA (S140A) resulting out of the timeshare purchase agreement 
entered into. In particular, the CMC allege Mr and Mrs P:
were pressured into purchasing a membership in breach of various legislation and 
regulations;
werent provided with sufficient information as required by the relevant regulations.
Further, the CMC believe the requirement to pay management charges throughout the term 
amounted to an unfair contract term under Regulation 5 of UTCCR1.
Shawbrook didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps claim. They didnt think there was evidence to 
support the alleged misrepresentation and didnt agree the various alegations gave cause to 
create an unfair relationship pursuant to S140A. In addition, Shawbrook also addressed and 
didnt uphold claims that:
D wasnt authorised to act as a credit broker; and
1 The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999
a proper credit assessment wasnt completed such that the loan wasnt affordable for 
Mr and Mrs P.
However, I cant see that these two specific claims were included within the CMCs claim 
letter in February 2022.
The CMC didnt agree with Shawbrooks findings, so referred Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
about their claim outcome to this service. One of our investigators considered all the 
evidence and information available. 
Having done so, our investigator didnt think there was any evidence of misrepresentation. 
Or that a court was likely to find the relationship unfair under S140A. They also didnt think 
there was any evidence to suggest that Shawbrook had lent irresponsibly or that the loan 
was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P. Our investigator also addressed a claim relating to 
commission payments albeit I also cant see that this aspect was included within the original 
claim.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me to consider further. As part 
of my review, the CMC have asked me to consider the contents of a 51-page document 
prepared by counsel headed Generic Submission of behalf of complainants. They also 
asked this service to obtain information and provide responses to questions about the 
procedures and policies that applied to the sale of loans with Shawbrook for the purchase of 
timeshare products.
Having considered all the information available together with the CMCs comments and 
observations, I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our investigator However, Id 
considered a number of issues which I dont feel were previously fully addressed or 
explained. So, I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2023 giving both sides the 
chance to respond before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP2 3.6.4R of the FCA3 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
and Mrs P paid for the timeshare product under a restricted use fixed sum loan 
agreement. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means Mr and Mrs P are 
afforded the protection offered to borrowers like them under those provisions. And as 
a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr P, Mrs P and Shawbrook 
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product purchased was funded under that credit agreement, theyre 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint this service is able to consider specifically relates to 
whether I believe Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Ps claim was fair and 
2 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
3 Financial Conduct Authorityreasonable given all the evidence and information available to me, rather than 
deciding the legal claim itself. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that D made false statements of fact when selling Mr and Mrs P the 
additional timeshare points in November 2017. In other words, that they told Mr and 
Mrs P something that wasnt true in relation to one or more of the points raised. I 
would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations were material in inducing 
Mr and Mrs P to enter the contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that 
they reasonably relied on the alleged false statements when deciding to buy the 
timeshare membership points. 
Various allegations have been made specifically relating to the sale and purchase in 
November 2017. So, Ive considered those allegations against the information 
available from the time of the sale. It appears that as Mr and Mrs Ps purchase in 
November 2017 gave them additional points increasing their existing holding. This 
appears to contradict the CMCs assertion that The scheme replaced and 
superseded [Mr and Mrs Ps] previous membership. 
From what I can establish, Mr and Mrs P bought an initial trial membership from D in 
2013. This was upgraded to a full membership in July 2014 when they purchased 
10,000 points in Ds timeshare scheme. An agreement was reached to increase this 
again by 5,000 points in June 2015. Although it appears that purchase was 
subsequently cancelled by Mr and Mrs P under the withdrawal clause within the 
agreement. So, following their upgrade in July 2014, it seems Mr and Mrs P still 
maintained membership of the same scheme.
Its apparent that Mr and Mrs Ps membership status with D changes in accordance 
with the total number of points held at the time. Each status category affords various 
benefits, some of which (but not necessarily all) may increase or change within each 
higher category. The purchase in November 2017 resulted in Mr and Mrs Ps 
membership status moving to a higher category. But, more fundamentally, the 
purchase gave Mr and Mrs P more points to spend against accommodation and 
experiences from within Ds portfolio.
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale. 
Looking at the available documentary evidence, I cant see anything that suggests 
the points were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P in the way described. I agree they 
may be able to access more holidays and/or a better quality of accommodation or experience. Simply put, they had more points available to spend than before the 
purchase. And Ive not seen any evidence that they werent able to do that.
I also note that point 4 of Part 1 of the Key Information document clearly states that 
the membership will last until 31 December 2054. So, I dont agree the scheme had 
no end date as the CMC assert.
Finally, I havent found any evidence to suggest the purchase of additional points 
was represented by D as an investment. In fact, the documentation (signed and 
confirmed by Mr and Mrs P) makes specific reference to the fact that the purchase 
shouldnt be considered an investment for financial returns. 
I dont think the purchase contract can have been marketed and sold as an 
investment contrary to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some 
inherent value to Mr and Mrs Ps membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing 
within the evidence provided to suggest D gave any assurances or guarantees about 
the future value of the points    purchased. D would had to have presented the 
membership in such a way that used its investment element to persuade Mr and Mrs 
P to contract. Only then would it have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and 
selling certain holiday products as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the 
TRs.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Shawbrook) and the debtor (Mr 
and Mrs P) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from 
S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
The breadth of the unfair relationship test under S140A is stark. But a simple breach 
of a legal or equitable duty doesnt necessarily make the relationship unfair. It also 
isnt just about hard-edged requirements  though the standard of commercial 
conduct reasonably expected can be important. And while there may be features of 
the transaction that operates harshly against the debtor, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that the relationship is unfair. After all, such features may be required in order to 
protect what a court regards as legitimate interests. 
Relationships between businesses and private individuals are also often 
characterised by large differences of knowledge and expertise  which means theyre 
inherently unequal as a result. But as far as the Supreme Court was concerned in 
Plevin4, it cant have been parliaments intention that such relationships should be 
liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
I think its relevant to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps existing membership and 
relationship with D. As Ive already said above, Mr and Mrs P have maintained a 
relationship with D from 2013. And they first purchased their full membership and 
4 The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]points in the current scheme in 2014. So, I think its reasonable to conclude they had 
a reasonably strong awareness about the product theyd purchased, how it operated 
and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs P were 
familiar with D (as a timeshare supplier) the format of their meetings and sales 
presentations, and their documentation. Particularly as the meeting in November 
2017 certainly wasnt their first experience. 
The pressured sale and process
The claim suggests Mr and Mrs P were pressured into purchasing the additional 
points due to the length of the meeting, the misrepresentations, inducements in the 
form of a discount only available on the day and the provision of refreshments. Its 
also suggested they felt they couldnt leave the meeting until a purchase was agreed. 
I acknowledge what the CMC have said about this. So, I can understand why it might 
be argued that any prolonged presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  
especially if, as Mr and Mrs P approached the closing stages, they were going to 
have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may 
not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs P agreed to the purchase in 2017 when they simply 
didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that they went on to say 
something to D, after the purchase, suggesting theyd agreed to it when they didnt 
want to. And neither the CMC nor Mr and Mrs P have provided a credible explanation 
for why they didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day 
cooling off period permitted here. Particularly when theyd previously cancelled a 
purchase agreed in 2015.
If they only agreed to the purchase because they felt pressured, I find this aspect 
difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr and Mrs P were obviously harassed or coerced into the 
purchase. And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr and Mrs P made the decision to proceed because their ability to 
exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to 
the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs P also signed and dated a document headed Customer 
Compliance Statement/Declaration to Treating Customer Fairly at the time of the 
sale. Point 20 of that document specifically confirms they hadnt been put under any 
pressure to purchase the points.
The provision of information
The CMC suggest D failed to provide all the material information to Mr and Mrs P 
they needed to. In particular they suggest key information wasnt provided regarding 
the investment element together with the ongoing costs of FPOC membership.
As Ive explained above, based upon the evidence, I cant say the points purchased 
were represented as an investment. So, I wouldnt expect D to have provided any 
key information on that basis. Furthermore, the CMCs reference to FPOC relates to 
a different form of membership. The purchase to which the claim relates didnt 
involve this type of product. So, I cant see how this aspect is relevant to Mr and Mrs 
Ps complaint here.
However, Ive considered the information that should have been provided to Mr and 
Mrs P as required under the TRs that apply here. Ive seen copies of various 
documents, including the Key Information document that Mr and Mrs P signed. 
Further, the Customer Compliance Statement/Declaration to Treating Customers 
Fairly, which Mr and Mrs P also signed, confirms they either received and/or read and understood the relevant and required documents. Based upon what Ive seen, I 
cant say that D did breach any requirement to provide any written information to 
enable Mr and Mrs P to make an informed decision. And I also havent seen anything 
to suggest Mr and Mrs P had subsequently raised this as an issue with D.
Unfair terms - consequences of non-payment of annual maintenance fees
I accept that its possible that some of the terms governing the associated annual 
management charges and Ds remedies if they werent paid may possibly go against 
the requirements of the UTCCR5.
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are 
put in a position to make an informed decision. If Ds disclosure and/or the terms of 
the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr and Mrs P ultimately lost 
out or almost certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract, the 
financial implications of which they didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, 
that may amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin6 makes clear, it doesnt 
automatically follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purpose of 
S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at 
in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical way. In other words, if I were to find 
thered been regulatory breaches  and I make no such finding - they are only likely 
to lead to unfairness where theres evidence Mr and Mrs P suffered loss as a 
consequence.
I understand Mr and Mrs P stopped paying their annual management charges which 
led to the cancelation of a booking theyd made for September 2021. That appears to 
be in accordance with the terms that govern the product Mr and Mrs P hold. 
However, the circumstances of non-payment havent been explained. So, its not 
possible for me to attribute that to anything that might lead to unfairness due to the 
actions of D. And in any event, such breaches can only be decided by a court.
D has (as I understand it) given Shawbrook an undertaking that consumers with 
complaints at the Financial Ombudsman Service who remain members can choose 
to relinquish their membership without having to pay any outstanding management 
charges (if there are any) and without prejudice to their ongoing complaint. With that 
being the case, even if the terms criticised were found to be unfair under the UTCCR, 
Ds undertaking would seem to me to go a long way to mitigating if not resolving any 
unfairness that the terms might otherwise lead to.
Other considerations 
There are certain aspects that appear to have been addressed in either Shawbrooks 
claim response or our investigators findings, that I cant see were included in the 
claim submitted by the CMC. But for completeness, I will address these here.
Was a proper credit assessment completed?
Shawbrook have given an overview of the credit assessment they completed and 
said that Mr and Mrs Ps application met their lending policy and guidelines and 
showed the loan was considered affordable based upon the information Mr and Mrs 
P provided at the time, and the credit reference checks they undertook. Ive also 
seen a copy of the loan application Mr and Mrs P completed in November 2017 
which includes details of their income and employment situation  amongst other 
things.
5 The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999
6 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)If I were to find that Shawbrook hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  
and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr and Mrs P in order to uphold any related complaint. However, with 
no information about Mr and Mrs Ps actual position at the time and no evidence or 
suggestion that they struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude 
the loan was unaffordable for them. And there doesnt appear to be any evidence of 
unaffordability or resultant loss.
Authorisation to act as a credit broker
This services records show that D came under our consumer credit jurisdiction at the 
time the loan was agreed in November 2017. This means they held the required 
authorisation from the FCA under the Financial Services and Marketing Act 2000. So, 
I dont agree with any suggestion D wasnt authorised to introduce Mr and Mrs P to 
Shawbrook for the purpose of financing their purchase.
Commission
In their findings, our investigator addressed a claim that the payment of commission 
by Shawbrook to D was kept from Mr and Mrs P. As I understand it, no commission 
was paid. But even if Shawbrook had paid D commission, I dont this wouldve been 
incompatible with their role in the transaction. 
D werent acting as an agent of Mr and Mrs P, but as the supplier of contractual 
rights they obtained under the timeshare points purchase agreement. And, in relation 
to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Ds role to 
make an impartial or disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr and Mrs P advice 
or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, they were always at liberty to 
choose how they wanted to fund the transaction. In fact, theyd funded previous 
purchases from D by card payment.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Shawbrook were under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these 
circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs P requested 
those details from Shawbrook (or D) at any point. And on that basis, Im not 
persuaded its likely that a court would find that any non-disclosure or payment of 
commission (had it been paid) wouldve created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
under S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMCs responses to our investigator
I have considered the various additional submissions provided by the CMC. In 
particular, the generic submissions prepared by Counsel. However, as these were 
generic points and not specific to Mr and Mrs Ps own purchase or recollections, I 
dont think they offered much help in making factual findings in their case.
The CMC requested that this service obtain extensive details of Shawbrooks 
processes and procedures together with evidence that D (and in turn Shawbrook) 
complied with the relevant rules, regulations and codes of practice that applied in the 
circumstances of the loan that was provided to Mr and Mrs P. 
This services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution service does not extend to 
regulating financial businesses or questioning their policies and procedures  thats 
the role of the regulator. In this case the FCA. Our powers are confined to deciding 
whether, on balance, their processes and procedures were applied in a fair and 
reasonable way in Mr and Mrs Ps individual circumstances. And in doing so, whether 
BPFs handling of Mr and Mrs Ps claim appears fair and reasonable. Thats what Ive 
done here.Furthermore, it is for this service to decide what information and evidence is required 
in order to investigate and decide Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Thats also what Ive 
done here, and I believe the evidence and information provided enables me to reach 
a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Summary
To reiterate  My role in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is to establish whether, 
based upon all the evidence available, Shawbrooks response to their claim was 
unfair or unreasonable. Given my findings above, I cant say that it was. And on that 
basis, I dont currently intend to ask Shawbrook to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Shawbrook confirmed they have no further 
comments to add.
The CMC said that Mr and Mrs P dont agree with my provisional findings and provided 
further detailed reasons why they believe Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. They 
also provided a statement from Mr and Mrs P explaining further the circumstances of their 
purchase together with details of their subsequent experiences.
Availability of preferred bookings
Mr and Mrs P reiterate their belief that they were told the purchase of additional points from 
D would provide better availability and priority for holidays worldwide and other small 
benefits. But they say this turned out to be false. They go on to describe their experience 
when trying to book a preferred holiday destination which didnt appear to be available, 
despite previous assurances given.
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that the purchase agreement (and the associated 
documentation) is clear that bookings are, at all times, subject to availability. Ive not seen 
anything within the evidence provided that shows D gave any assurances that bookings at 
preferred locations or preferred times were guaranteed to be available. That seems 
reasonable to me as I wouldnt expect D to be able offer unlimited availability anyway.
The accommodation and experiences available in the members directory each attract a 
different points value which could vary according to demand, seasonality and 
availability/supply. The additional points purchased in turn meant that Mr and Mrs P had 
more points to spend. So, it seems they wouldve been able to consider higher (points) 
priced experiences as a consequence of their purchase in 2017. Further, Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs P werent able to utilise the additional benefits afforded to them in 
accordance with their resultant new membership category. And without that evidence, I cant 
reasonably conclude the additional points purchased were misrepresented in the way 
alleged.
Affordability
Mrs and Mrs P say that their financial circumstances at the time were such that they wouldnt 
be able to afford further loan repayments. They say that a previous purchase in 2015 didnt 
proceed and said, after a credit check it would not go through. Whilst I havent seen any 
evidence to support what they say happened in 2015, I dont think this has relevance to the 
complaint Im considering here anyway. And Ive already addressed the allegations of 
affordability and the credit assessment undertaken by Shawbrook in my provisional decision. 
Based upon what Mr and Mrs P have said, I havent seen anything that persuades me to 
vary from those findings. 
Regulatory breachesThe CMC again describe, at length, why they believe there were breaches of the various 
regulations and legislation that applied to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps purchase. 
These include alleged breaches of:
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (The TRs);
The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 (UTCCR); and
The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT).
I dont propose to repeat all the CMCs comments and observations at this stage. And to a 
large extent, Ive already addressed most of the arguments in my provisional decision. 
However, in reaching my final decision, I want to assure them (and Mr and Mrs P) that Ive 
carefully considered everything thats been said, even if I havent overtly commented on 
some aspects.
Alleged breaches of the TRs
The CMC allege the contract and full paperwork wasnt made available until after Mr and Mrs 
P had committed to buy the product. Ive not seen any evidence that was the case here. So, 
I cant say, with any certainty, that D did withhold contractual information before Mr and Mrs 
P completed the purchase of additional points. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs P had been members of Ds timeshare 
schemes since 2013; and as regards the points-based membership scheme, since July 
2014. Therefore, I think its reasonably to conclude that Mr and Mrs P already had a 
reasonably level of familiarity with their points-based membership before their purchase in 
2017. And I also think they had experience and knowledge of the associated ongoing costs.
Ive seen the documentation that Mr and Mrs P signed in 2017 which includes the Key 
Information and confirmation theyd received the latest membership guide and other required 
documents. So, based upon the evidence available, I cant reasonably say they werent 
provided with the required information at the time. And as I said in my provisional decision, 
the purchase agreement included a withdrawal/cancellation period of 14 days. So, it seems 
Mr and Mrs P had every opportunity to change their mind without incurring any cost.
In my provisional decision, I explained how I thought a court would view the circumstances in 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. And given their previous experience their resultant knowledge and the 
evidence available, even if they werent provided with some of the information in a timely 
manner, I think its very unlikely a court would find unfairness in these circumstances.
Alleged breaches of the UTCCRs
Much of the detailed allegations appear to relate specifically to the ongoing calculation and 
payment of management charges. In particular with reference to regulation 5 and schedule 2 
of the UTCCRs. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs P were existing members and didnt 
purchase a product that was new to them. They merely increased their points holding taking 
them to a higher membership category. So, the basis of any management charge 
calculation, as far as I can see, varied little from what theyd previously experienced and 
been told about. 
Once again, even if the explanation provided in 2017 was found to be unclear  and I make 
no such finding  based upon their existing experience and resultant knowledge, I dont think 
a court is likely to find this resulted in unfairness pursuant to S140A. And given the 
undertaking provided by D (as mentioned in my provisional decision) I think this further 
serves to support my view.
Alleged breaches of CPUT 
As regards the allegations of pressure, Ive already addressed this aspect in my provisional 
decision. And the CMCs responses dont provide me with anything new to consider or any evidence that D did pressure or coerce Mr and Mrs P to entering into the additional points 
purchase.
Summary
I want to acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling here. But having considered their 
(and the CMCs) responses to my provisional decision, Im not persuaded to change my view 
on their complaint. I do realise they will be very disappointed, but for the reasons above I 
wont be asking Shawbrook to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman