DRN-2929320
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A  partners in a business known as S  complain that the National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) refused to renew their business protection 
and other insurance policies, and say this happened as a result of discrimination related to 
disability.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A are partners in a business known as S. They are assisted in the business  
and in bringing this complaint  by a relative, who I will refer to as Mr A2.
Mr and Mrs A have had a number of insurance policies relating to S with NFU, including 
business protection insurance and motor insurance for their vehicles, for many years. During 
2020 they made a claim on one of the policies which was rejected. Mr A2 corresponded with 
NFU about the claim and said, amongst other things, it wasnt being honest about claims.
On 28 September 2020 someone from NFU called Mr A2. Mr A2 says he was working at the 
time and told the caller he was only able to continue with the call on condition that he would 
be given a note of the conversation soon after the call; he requested this as a reasonable 
adjustment under the Equality Act because he was unable to make a note of the call himself, 
and would need a record of what was discussed.
NFU says it treated this call as a complaint and was preparing a response, but before this 
was sent there was further contact from Mr A2. The complaint was escalated to a senior 
manager, who wrote to Mr and Mrs A in December 2020 confirming the decision in respect 
of the claim.
In January 2021 Mr A2 made a further complaint on behalf of Mr and Mrs A about a number 
of issues. This included him saying NFU was failing to act with honesty or integrity and that 
the failure to provide a note of the call in September 2020 was discriminatory. The senior 
manager replied in February. Mr A2 replied saying he was unhappy with some comments 
the manager made about his disability.
NFU then wrote to Mr and Mrs A saying it had decided it would not offer a renewal of their 
policies when the renewal came up in May.
Mr A2 complained to NFU about this on behalf of Mr and Mrs A. In reply, NFU said it has a 
discretion on whether to accept a risk and agree to provide (or renew) cover; and it could 
have cancelled the policies but gave Mr and Mrs A several months notice so they would 
have time to find alternative cover.
Mr A2 says the decision not to renew has only happened as a result of NFU discriminating 
against him due to his disability, and it has left Mr and Mrs A in a position where they 
couldnt find alternative cover because they had to disclose the refusal to renew and as soon 
as they did this, new insurers refused to take them on. 
During our investigation NFU agreed to extend the policies for a further period but this has 
now ended. Mr and Mrs A have found alternatives for most of their insurance but say in 
respect of one of the policies they have only found one other insurer willing to provide cover 
and this is more expensive (and the level of cover is not as good). 
Our investigator didnt think NFUs decision was unfair; he said it was a commercial decision 
for NFU to decide whether to offer insurance, and he didnt think the decision was based on 
any discrimination. 
Mr and Mrs A disagree and have requested an ombudsmans decision. Mr A2 has made a 
number of comments on their behalf, including:
he has a condition which affects his communication;
the call in September 2020 was requested by NFU and he only agreed to it on the 
basis he would be given a note of the call soon afterwards;
he specifically requested this under the Equality Act 2010;
the adjustment wasnt made and they had to make a subject access request to obtain 
a note of the call;
the senior managers letter in February 2021 was abusive towards him about his 
disability and when he replied saying he was uncomfortable about this, NFU then 
decided not to renew the insurance policies, a decision that was vindictive and has 
had very serious consequences for Mr and Mrs A;
if he had not had a disability the deterioration in relations which led to NFUs decision 
would not have happened.
NFU does not accept there has been any discrimination. It says it has discretion on whether 
to take on a risk and provide cover for it; the decision not to renew the policies was based on 
the fact the relationship with Mr and Mrs A had completely broken down, and in such 
circumstances its decision was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are entitled to decide whether to offer a policy to someone; its generally for an 
insurer to assess the risk and decide whether it wants to cover that risk (and if so, on what 
terms and at what cost). At each renewal a new contract is entered into  the insurer decides 
whether to offer a renewal and the customer may then decide whether to accept the terms 
offered. Its not for me to say what risks an insurer should cover and so I wouldnt generally 
tell an insurer whether it should provide cover for someone. 
However, insurers have a duty to treat their customers fairly. Mr A2 says NFUs decision 
wasnt fair as it arose out of NFU failing to make reasonable adjustments for him under the 
Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but ultimately I need to decide this complaint based 
on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr A2 wants a decision that NFU has breached the Equality 
Act 2010, hed need to go Court. Having said that, if NFUs decision was made as a result of 
it discriminating against Mr A2 then its likely I would say it wasnt treating its customers 
(Mr and Mrs A) fairly. So I have considered carefully how and why NFU decided not to offer 
a renewal, to decide whether its decision was fair and reasonable. I dont have a recording of the call from September 2020 but have no reason to doubt that 
Mr A2 requested a note of the call. NFU has explained that it treated comments by Mr A2 in 
that call as a complaint and started preparing a response to that. It says he also wanted to 
make a subject access request, to obtain copies of all documents relating to the claim, and 
its response to the complaint would have included details of how to do that. But Mr A2 then 
asked to escalate the complaint to a more senior level, so the response wasnt sent. It 
seems that as a result of how this all developed, NFU didnt send a note of the call at the 
time. Mr A2 was later provided with a copy of the file note. But since hed specifically asked 
for this note and explained why he needed it, I dont think it was fair for NFU not to provide 
that note when requested.
However, looking at the sequence of events after that, NFU didnt make its decision until 
February 2021. It has explained the circumstances that led up to that decision. There were a 
number of incidents in the months between September 2020 and February 2021 where 
Mr A2 made various allegations against NFU about is integrity and honesty. And those 
comments were not just directed at NFU  there were comments made publicly (for example 
through social media).
I appreciate the reasons for Mr A2s strength of feeling and the fact the declined claim had 
quite an impact on Mr and Mrs As business. But from NFUs perspective, it felt Mr and 
Mrs A, and Mr A2, had lost trust in it. In statements prepared in January 2021 they made a 
number of comments about NFUs conduct. NFU has explained that as a result of those 
comments, it concluded that the relationship of trust and confidence between the parties, 
which it said must exist between an insurer and its policyholders, had completely broken 
down and thats why it decided to bring that relationship to an end. And by telling Mr and 
Mrs A about this in February, it felt they would have enough time to find another provider 
before the renewal date in May.
Mr A2 says the decision was made following comments in correspondence in February 2021 
about his disability. I know he found those comments very upsetting but I dont think there 
was an intention to insult him or his disability. Rather, it was a review of how he  and Mr 
and Mrs A  had been able to continue dealing with issues relating to the insurance 
notwithstanding his condition. I think NFU could have dealt with this more sensitively but I 
dont think it was solely this correspondence that led to the decision not to offer a renewal. 
As Ive explained, there was a long sequence of events dating back to the rejection of the 
claim that led up to this. 
If NFU had provided a note of the call in September 2020 some of the issues that followed 
may have been avoided. But Mr and Mrs A, and Mr A2, were already very unhappy with the 
way the claim had been deal with. Further issues developed over the following months 
relating to the claim and wider concerns Mr A2 had about the way NFU was conducting its 
business. While that call formed part of the background to later events, I dont find that the 
decision not to renew cover stemmed directly from that. 
Ultimately NFU felt the relationship had broken down. An insurer is entitled to decide 
whether to offer cover to a customer and, given all the circumstances here, I think it was 
reasonable for NFU to decide not to offer cover to Mr and Mrs A. And I think the fact it gave 
three months notice from February to May  and later agreed to extensions beyond that 
time  shows it was trying to be fair to them and give them time to find alternative cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman