DRN-3153125
The complaint
Mrs C, who is represented by her son, Mr P complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
misled her about the sum due when she Voluntarily Terminated (VTd) her car finance 
agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mrs C borrowed £12,900 in September 2018 to fund the acquisition of a car. In December 
Mr P contacted Santander to VT the agreement and return the car. In a call in December Mr 
P was given the correct information about the VT process and was told that at that point his 
mother owed £2,152.04, subject to any additional charges for damage or excess mileage 
etc. This was confirmed in a letter dated 7 December 2020.
The car was collected and on 19 January Mr P called again to find out how much his mother 
owed. During this call he was given incorrect information. The call handler assumed the 
agreement was being Voluntarily Surrendered and that procedure requires the cars sale 
price to be taken into account when calculating the balance owing, if any.
I gather Mr P thought the car was sell for more than it did and had hoped the sum due would 
be reduced. In fact, it sold for much less and had the Voluntary Surrender process been 
applied his mother would have owed considerably more.
He complained to Santander on his mothers behalf and it acknowledged an error had been 
made and offered compensation of £150. This was rejected and Mr P asked that the 
outstanding balance be reduced. The sum that the business is seeking is the correct amount 
and while it made an error in a phone call Mr P was told at the end of that call the correct 
sum due. 
I believe that the call gave him some hope that the sum payable would be less than it 
actually was, but at no point was he told that it would be less. He was not told categorically 
that the sum payable would be £x. As such the incorrect information given during that call is 
not sufficient to allow me to say that Santander should forgo what it is legally entitled to 
collect.
Mr P has also pointed out that a letter from Santander detailed to money owed by his mother 
was not dared properly. This does not undermine Santanders claim. I think it is right that 
Mrs C be paid compensation of the incorrect information and I consider £150 is fair.
Finally, I would remind Santander of the obligation to treat Mrs C positively and 
sympathetically in helping her pay the sum due.
My final decision
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman