DRN-4030139
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled her credit card 
application. Ms S wants Lloyds to approve her application.
What happened
Ms S is an existing customer of Lloyds. In October 2022, Ms S applied for a Lloyds cashback 
credit card online but her application was declined. After Ms S visited a branch to discuss the 
failed application, an adviser contacted the lending team who couldnt understand why her 
application had been declined. 
Ms S made a second application but this was again declined. At this point, Lloyds told Ms S 
that her application failed because she didnt currently hold the correct type of credit card 
account.
Ms S replaced her existing credit card so that shed be eligible to apply for the second 
cashback credit card. However, Lloyds then told Ms S that she would no longer be eligible to 
apply for the cashback credit card, as it had introduced a minimum annual salary 
requirement in the middle of November 2022. 
Lloyds agrees that it let Ms S down and paid her £50 to apologise. Lloyds said that it could 
not overturn the eligibility criteria for the cashback credit card.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds had already done enough to put things right for Ms S. 
Our investigator said that as the eligibility criteria had changed, it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to say that it could no longer approve Ms Ss application for a cashback credit card.
Ms S is very unhappy with the investigation outcome. She points out that Lloyds told her it 
had already approved her credit card application. She is unhappy that Lloyds changed the 
eligibility criteria halfway through her application after shed already been approved. Ms S 
says that when she first applied for the cashback credit card, she typed the correct 
information but then the information Lloyds showed her was incorrect..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the problems that Ms S has faced. Lloyds agrees that it made 
mistakes, so I now need to consider whether it has done enough to put things right. 
When Ms S first applied for the cashback credit card, she already held a Lloyds classic credit 
card. Lloyds website said that to be eligible for a second credit card, a customers existing 
credit card could not be a classic account.  Its unfortunate that Lloyds told Ms S that shed 
already been approved and that it couldnt understand why her application was declined. But 
as Ms Ss existing account didnt meet the eligibility criteria to apply for a second credit card, 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the online application.
After Ms S made a second application  which was again declined - Lloyds correctly told Ms 
S that shed have to trade her existing classic credit card for a platinum card in order to be 
eligible for the second cashback credit card. As the eligibility criteria for the cashback credit 
card hadnt changed at this point, I dont find that Lloyds was at fault for suggesting this 
course of action. 
Lloyds website says that you can only apply for a credit card if youve not been declined 
within the last 30 days. As Ms S had to wait before reapplying for the cashback credit card, 
the eligibility criteria had changed. I can understand that this was very frustrating for Ms S 
but Lloyds made a commercial decision to set a minimum income level. This service cant 
interfere in that decision, so I dont think it reasonable to require Lloyds to approve Ms Ss 
application given that she does not earn over the income threshold.
I have thought about whether Lloyds should pay more compensation than its paid so far but 
Ms Ss main concern is to have the cashback credit application approved. As Im not asking 
Lloyds to approve the application, I consider £50 compensation is a fair way to reflect the 
inconvenience caused to Ms S when Lloyds failed to correctly identify the reason why her 
application for the second credit card failed. 
Lloyds has pointed out to Ms S that as a customer, shes eligible to earn cashback on certain 
transactions with her credit and debit cards. Details of the service can be found online if Ms 
S is interested in learning more. 
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Ms S but for the reasons outlined above, I 
dont require Lloyds to take further action in response to her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Lloyds has already 
done enough to put things right for Ms S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman