DRN-2478968
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Ss representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
In summary, the CMC says:
Mrs and Mr S were advised to invest £6,000 which was all their lifes savings.
They had no investment experience.
Mr R was retired on medical grounds and in receipt of incapacity benefits.
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Given the passage of time, HSBC no longer has the point of sale documents from 
1988. But shes unable to blame HSBC for this because businesses are only required 
to retain information for a reasonable amount of time. So, its not unreasonable that it 
no longer has this information. 
HSBC confirmed that £5,000 (not £6,000) was invested in June 1988. 
Despite what the CMC says about Mrs and Mr Ss money being invested, and Mr S 
being on benefits, the first time they made any withdrawals was in June 1996 for the 
sum of £3,000, eight years after they invested. This doesnt suggest that they had 
affordability issues or werent left with enough money to get on with their lives.
In the absence of any information about their income, planned expenditure or 
liabilities shes unable to say that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Despite what the CMC says shes unable to safely say that Mrs and Mr S were 
inexperienced investors.
Between June 1996 and January 2013, Mrs and Mr S made further withdrawals 
totalling £10,926. Despite this a small balance remains on the account. 
This suggests that Mrs and Mr S suffered no financial loss.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it made the following points:
Mrs S was in hospital  on life support  with Covid-19, and Mr S is isolating.
The fact that they drew on the funds suggest they werent in a position to invest in a 
medium to long term investment. 
If HSBC dont have records thats an issue for them, its not an issue for Mrs and Mr 
S.
Just because Mrs and Mr S withdrew in excess of £10,000, over 25 years, doesnt 
mean that the recommendation was suitable. 
The CMC also provided the following additional information:
oIn June 1988, Mrs and Mr S had one dependent. 
oMr S was retired due to an accident and Mrs S worked as a secretary. 
oTheyre unable to recall their income and expenditure. 
oThey had no assets other than a caravan worth £5,000. 
oThey had a mortgage of around £20,000. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says I cant safely say 
that the recommendation was unsuitable. In other words, I dont have the evidence to 
conclude that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr S. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to mention just how sorry I am to hear 
about Mrs S being in hospital. I realise this must be a very difficult time for Mr S. I wish them 
both a full and speedy recovery. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs and Mr S wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and HSBC, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather than 
take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats 
more likely than not to have happened. 
Given the passage of time, Im not surprised that HSBC is unable to provide more 
information about the point of sale. Financial businesses arent required to retain information 
indefinitely so I cant blame HSBC for not being able to provide more information about the 
sale of a product that took place over 30 years ago.  
Despite what the CMC says, I simply dont know what Mrs and Mr Ss financial 
circumstances were at the point of sale in 1988, so Im unable to safely conclude that they 
were first-time (inexperienced) investors or that theyd invested all of their money. I note 
HSBC says that according to its records only £5,000 was invested, not £6,000 as suggested 
by the CMC, but unfortunately it has no other information about their circumstances. 
I note it was 1996  eight years after the start of the investment  when Mrs and Mr S first 
withdrew any money from the investment. This doesnt suggest that they couldnt afford to 
invest or didnt have enough money to supplement their lifestyle, even if they had a 
mortgage, and a dependent child. Im mindful that Mr S was also in receipt of disability benefits, but that of itself doesnt 
prevent Mrs and Mr S from jointly investing. 
In any case, I dont know why they withdrew the money when they did. Im unable to say if it 
was a result of a planned withdrawal or unforeseen circumstances, in which case its not 
something the adviser couldve foreseen at the point of sale. It also suggests that they 
probably didnt need the money, but whether this was down to planning or good fortune on 
balance I simply cant tell. I dont think this means a medium to long term investment was 
necessarily unsuitable for them.
I also have no information about their (potential) attitude to risk or objectives, so Im unable 
to say whether (or not) these were met. Ive no way of knowing what funds, if any, Mrs and 
Mr S had left, or whether they had other investments in place. Im simply unable to assume 
that they had nothing left at all based on what the CMC says. None of the additional 
information supplied by the CMC leads me to change my decision. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr S will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the (limited) available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman