DRN-3312175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that they were mis-sold joint personal protection insurance policies in 
1996 and 2000 by Woolwich for which ReAssure takes responsibility. 
They say they did not want or need the policies and were pressured into taking them out 
alongside mortgage lending. To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs B want to be refunded 
all of the premiums they have paid, with interest.  
What happened
The first policy began in April 1996 and offered them level term life and critical illness 
insurance. This was replaced by a second policy in February 2000 after Mr and Mrs B 
remortgaged. The second policy also included income protection insurance. Each policy had 
a sum assured and term matching the respective mortgage borrowings. In June 2000, they 
cancelled the second policy.  
In December 2020, Mrs and Mr B complained to ReAssure that they had been mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI), sending it a completed PPI questionnaire. They had 
originally complained in 2019 before the cut-off date for PPI complaints to Barclays, which 
takes responsibility for some Woolwich complaints. However, it confirmed that the 
responsibility for the advice now laid with ReAssure.  
In their questionnaire, Mr and Mrs B said they had not needed the policies as they had 
sufficient provisions through their employment benefits including critical illness cover, 
redundancy cover, sick pay and pensions. They also had savings they could have called on 
if required. In their view the policies were sold to generate commission. They wanted to be 
returned the premiums they had paid for both policies (£915.80) as well as the sales 
commissions totalling £1,180.48 plus interest for being deprived of those funds.  
ReAssure rejected the complaint in October 2020. It said there was no documentary 
evidence about the sale of the policies or the advice because it had not retained evidence 
dating back as far as 2000. It could not make any assessment about suitability of the advice 
and it was of the view that there was no suggestion the policies had been inappropriate.  
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint, 
but did not think it should succeed. He said ReAssure wasnt unreasonable merely because 
it couldnt provide the point of sale documentation, because of the amount of time that had 
passed since the policies ended. The investigator also said he hadnt seen any clear 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs B had been compelled to take out the policies.
The investigator also felt the policies were suitable for Woolwich to have recommended. He 
noted that at the time of the mortgage sales, Mr and Mrs B had a split between a capital 
repayment and an endowment mortgages  but ReAssure had confirmed it was cheaper to 
have one policy as level term assurance than two policies, one being decreasing term cover 
and the other level cover. Whilst he was also mindful that Mrs B had an endowment savings 
policy at the time of the sales, this was for less value than the mortgage liabilities and was 
taken out in her name alone. So, he didnt believe it was unsuitable to propose the term 
assurance policies on either occasion.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They made a number of submissions. In summary, they said:
they raised their complaint within the relevant timeframe for PPI complaints  so it 
isnt their fault if ReAssure and/or Woolwich have failed to retain paperwork;
it was in ReAssures interest to destroy records, as financial institutions have been 
known to have undertaking mis-selling for many years;
they have provided evidence while ReAssure has not, yet the investigator still sides 
with the business;
the mortgage advisers on both occasions insisted that they took out the policy to 
secure their lending. The investigator accepted that may have been a requirement to 
do so, then discounted it in the same view;
essentially, they have been the victims of institutionalised profiteering;
they disagree that the mortgage was part and part  the lending on both occasions 
was offered on a capital repayment basis;
Mr and Mrs B have used an online calculator to retrospectively assess the monthly 
payments of their mortgages against the agreed interest rate and these figures bear 
out that their mortgage was being reduced on a capital repayment basis each time;
the investigator had also ignored that they had savings as well as generous 
employment benefits which far exceeded the mortgage value;
they held death benefit of four times their salaries, they had critical illness cover and 
generous contractual redundancy pay arrangements;
despite all of this, the investigator has insisted that they still needed the term 
assurances proposed by Woolwich;
If the investigator was not prepared to change his view, they wanted the complaint to 
be passed to an ombudsman.  
Our investigator said his view on the complaint remained unchanged. He agreed that Mr and 
Mrs B had been able to provide more evidence than ReAssure  but none of the information 
he had seen suggested that the policies were mandatory, or that they were mis-sold.     
ReAssure had no further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Though this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, I do not believe this complaint 
should succeed. I will set out my conclusions on the complaint below.   
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs B initially took the view that their policies might have been 
PPI policies, as they were set out as a type of mortgage protection. However, the policies 
were not PPI. That is a different type of cover, primarily designed to offer protection for the 
repayments to a lending should policyholders fall ill, be unable to work or face defined 
circumstances where they cannot meet repayments of a specified debt. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policies were both term assurance; in return for continued payments of a 
monthly premium over the policy term, the policy provided a lump sum payment matching 
their mortgage should either of them have passed away or suffered from one of a number of 
defined critical illnesses. At that point, the policy would then cease. If no claim was made it is 
otherwise designed to run to the term set out, unless cancelled. I note the second policy also had additional income protection cover.  
I realise Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that the policies were presented to them as mandatory 
provisions of securing their mortgage lending. It is particularly difficult in piecing together 
what has happened from sales which took place over 20 and 25 years previously. This is 
notably harder where there is scant evidence from the times of the sales and 
recommendations.  
Though Mr and Mrs B have suggested otherwise, ReAssure has destroyed all records 
relating to the policies because it was required to do so under relevant data protection laws. I 
do not accede to the argument that it has done so to hide evidence. It has not acted unfairly 
by taking that step where provisions relating to the storage of information require deletion of 
records beyond set time limits. This occurred in Mr and Mrs Bs case because the policies 
have not been in force for almost 22 years.
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Bs recollection, and I can how they have gone into 
some detail about what happened at the time. However, it is not the case that a complaint 
will or will not succeed based on whichever party has the ability to provide relevant 
documentation. In fact, that could work against some consumers where businesses may 
have the capacity to retain data securely for longer. I must also weigh up what ReAssure 
says. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on 
the balance of probabilities.
Further, I can see Mr and Mrs B feel frustrated that our investigator had accepted that the 
policies might have been a condition of the lending  around that time, some mortgage 
lenders did have requirements in place that prospective borrowers take out appropriate 
personal protection insurance in order to agree to lend them funds.  
Mr B has pointed to the acceptance terms for the first policy from February 1996, which is 
entitled "Life Protection Plan proposal in connection with your mortgage application". He 
takes the view that this shows the policy was mandatory  but I disagree. It shows that it was 
taken out alongside the mortgage lending, and neither party disputes that.
In my view, I cannot conclusively determine what was said by ReAssure about the 
requirement to take out term assurance along with the mortgage lending in 1996 and 2000. 
However, I dont believe that the complaint ought to be upheld on that basis, even if the 
policies were a requirement because financial institutions were able to decide the criteria 
against which they were prepared to lend funds to prospective mortgage customers. 
If Mr and Mrs B had been unhappy with the requirement (if it was indeed one), then they 
could have sought their mortgage lending elsewhere. I say that with particular reference to 
the fact they remortgaged just four years later. If Mr and Mrs B had been dissatisfied with the 
arrangement the first time, they may well have wanted to seek lending with another business 
should the proposal to take out term assurance have been a concern for them.  
But, even if I accept that the policies were a condition of the lending (which remains 
unknown), I still do not accept that they were mis-sold.
Similarly, I do not believe it can be ascertained clearly what type of mortgages Mr and Mrs B 
held in terms of a partial split between interest-only (or endowment) and capital repayment. 
Mr B says that he and Mrs B have undertaken retrospective calculations using their interest 
rate and it would appear to be that both mortgages were capital repayment. He also says he 
and Mrs B would not have agreed to any form of endowment mortgage after Mrs Bs first 
mortgage had been set up on that basis and they were unhappy with it. However, this conflicts with the life assurance application evidence which shows the split of 
£44,500 on both occasions with quotes for level cover being obtained on that basis. Further, 
the mortgage offer from 1996 expressly sets out that the mortgage was part repayment and 
part endowment (interest only). 
I believe, on balance, that it is most likely that the mortgages were taken on a split basis, as 
borne out by the limited information that is available. And I have looked at the proposals for 
the term assurances on that basis. Accordingly, ReAssure was able to provide retrospective 
premium calculations to determine that it was cheaper to offer one level term policy to Mr 
and Mrs B on each occasion than split ones. 
As I set out above, ReAssure no longer retains evidence relating to either policy. That is to 
be expected, since it destroyed any data it holds accordance with data protection legislation. 
I cannot therefore make findings on what considerations ReAssures adviser ought to have 
made when proposing the policy. That being said, I agree with our investigator that the 
provisions Mrs and Mr B said they had in place were not comparable or as directly suitable 
as taking out life assurance for the lending.  
At the time of both sales, the evidence shows that Mr B had no form of personal life 
assurance, critical illness or income protection benefit. The provisions he did have, however 
generous, formed part of his employment benefit package at the time. 
Mrs B was in the same position but for holding a personal endowment savings policy  
though it had a term that was shorter than the new borrowings on both occasions. Also, it 
had a sum assured which was notably less than the two new mortgages.  
Mr and Mrs B did go on to take out life assurance policies with sums assured of £200,000, 
more than twice their second mortgage borrowing. However, this cover began in November 
2000 after the ReAssure policy was cancelled and so I dont find it to be a suitable 
alternative in the circumstances as cover for the 1996 or the February 2000 borrowings. 
Death in service benefits are not generally considered a suitable means of ensuring a 
mortgage is protected in the event of death, since employment benefits can be involuntarily 
lost. I know Mr and Mrs B felt that was unlikely, but it was not an impossibility. 
Employment can end for unpreventable reasons, such as redundancy or where a persons 
health may prevent him or her being able to undertake gainful employment. I know that both 
Mr and Mrs B have been healthy throughout the intervening years and Mr B retained his 
particular job until 2020, but that is said by looking back using hindsight. To be fair to both 
parties, I need to consider what ought to have happened in 1996 and 2000 when 
determining if ReAssure has behaved fairly.
Starting a term assurance policy when taking on a mortgage debt is a prudent step to take. A 
payment in the circumstances that Mr or Mrs B fell ill, passed away (or in the case of the 
second policy, became unable to work) would have ensured that enough funds for 
themselves and their family were available to clear (or maintain) the outstanding mortgage 
debt at a difficult time. And Mr and Mrs B didnt have existing insurance policies themselves 
at the time ReAssure provided them with the advice. 
It follows that on the limited information before me, I have seen no reason to believe the 
recommendation was unfair in the circumstances. Though Mr and Mrs B went on to cancel 
the cover, they had the benefit of the insurance up to June 2000 meaning they could 
reasonably have pursued a claim under either policy if required. As such, I dont agree that 
the policy premiums ought to be returned to them.  My final decision
Though I know this outcome wont be what Mr and Mrs B had hoped for, I dont uphold this 
complaint, nor do I make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman