DRN-4325779
The complaint
Mr T complains that he didnt get a switcher offer from Nationwide Building Society (NW).
What happened
Mr T switched his current account from another bank (which I will call bank A) in October 
2022  in a switcher offer from NW. The incentive was £200, providing 1) two direct debits 
were set up within 30 days of the switch, 2) the switch was done via the current account 
switching service 3) the switch was completed within 30 days and 4) that a full switch was 
completed and the old current account closed.
Mr T fulfilled the first three conditions  thats not in dispute, but the fourth one is. NW didnt 
pay the switcher incentive of £200.
Mr T complained. He said hed met the terms of the incentive and had completed a full 
switch. He showed NW a copy of a letter he received from bank A which said his account 
had been closed. He showed he had transferred the balance from bank A to NW. He said 
hed never heard of the term partial switch and as far as he was concerned, he had 
switched his current account to NW and should receive the incentive. He said he has 
suffered a lot of stress and inconvenience in trying to sort the matter out.
NW said that to qualify for the incentive, a customer had to:
Complete a full switch online to a FlexAccount, FlexDirect or FlexPlus account using 
the Current Account Switch Service  
Transfer a minimum of two Direct Debit payments as part of the switch
 The switch must be completed within 30 days of it being requested. 
NW said Mr T only completed a partial switch - so wasnt eligible for the incentive payment.
Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator issued three views, the last of which didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. She said that during the switching process, Mr T wouldve entered 
his account details with bank A and received a warning on screen which said that based on 
the information provided, NW could only offer a partial switch. 
That meant that payments would be transferred, but Mr Ts old account remained open. The 
reason for that was that Mr Ts old current account formed part of a mortgage offset and 
couldnt be closed. Our investigator said that was contained in the terms and conditions for 
the switcher offer.
Mr T didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, so it has come to me 
to do that.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
I reviewed Mr Ts complaint and put more questions to NW, following which NW made an 
offer to Mr T - to pay compensation of £250. This was made up of the incentive of £200, plus 
compensation of £50. NW made the offer because theyd reviewed Mr Ts complaint again 
and considered that in the online chat and in their final response, they couldve explained 
why he didnt meet the terms of the offer  and why a full switch from bank A wasnt 
possible.
Unfortunately, this was put to Mr T as a total of £300. But in any case, Mr T rejected the offer 
and so I am assessing his complaint again.
There are valid arguments on both sides of this complaint. Mr T has consistently argued his 
case. And while NW has followed their processes and terms and conditions here, strictly 
following a procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the 
individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here. 
It's not in dispute that Mr T met the three of the terms of the switcher offer  in as much as 
the switching service was used; more than two direct debits were set up, and the switch was 
completed within 30 days. So  I wont go into those.
I think its also fair to say that the terms of the offer were set out in the terms and conditions. 
As these say:
How do I qualify for the offer?...You must complete a full account switch from a current 
account held with another provider using the Current Account Switch Service. The account 
you have with another provider must be closed as part of the switch. Manual and partial 
switches do not count towards this. 
When wont I qualify  what are the exclusions?...You wont qualify for this offer if:You 
manually or only partially switched your account and did not complete a full switch
NW have said in their submissions to us that Mr T may have closed his account at bank A 
manually. But the evidence for that isnt clear, nor did NW say that to Mr T in their final 
response, and so I set that consideration aside. 
So  the terms and conditions say NW had the right not to pay the incentive, but thats not 
the end of the story. A firms communications must be clear and not misleading  and in the 
circumstances of Mr Ts complaint, I can see that the communications from NW couldve 
been clearer.
At the point of completing the switch instructions, Mr T was shown the screen Based on the 
information provided by your old bank / building society, we are able to offer you a partial 
switch. This means that we will transfer your payments, but your old account will not be 
closed.
NW argue that shouldve been enough for Mr T to have realised he wouldnt get the 
incentive. But I dont think thats a reasonable thing to say - as it means that Mr T needed to 
consider the impact of the online statement, and then revisit the terms and conditions to see 
what a partial switch was  and then work out the impact on the offer.
I then looked at the texts sent to Mr T  four times between 11 October 2022 and 31 October 
2022. Each of these said the switch was being completed without any problems:
11 October 2022: Good news. Well start your current account switch
14 October 2022: Good news. Weve started your current account switch15 October 2022: Good news. Weve received your payment details
31 October 2022: Good news. Weve set up regular payments for your current account 
switch
None of the texts said that Mr T didnt qualify for the incentive. And they indicated that the 
switch was going ahead  as Mr T expected to see. I did note that NWs internal systems 
flagged partial switch  but obviously we couldnt expect Mr T to have known that.
I also noted that NW didnt send Mr T a letter or email at any stage during the switching 
process to say he didnt qualify for the incentive, explain why that was  and possibly to give 
him the option of not proceeding. But unfortunately, that wasnt the case.
I reviewed the online chat between Mr T and NWs agent - who didnt explain what a partial 
switch was, or why that was the case  i.e. that it was because of Mr Ts mortgage offset 
with bank A. Neither did NWs final response explain that. In both interactions, it wouldve 
been helpful if a full explanation was given, but it wasnt.
I can see how frustrating this has been for Mr T. Ive considered an appropriate amount of 
compensation. Weve set out some criteria for this and this is shown at:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
In line with this guidance, I think that an amount of £300 (as previously proposed) is a fair 
way for NW to settle this complaint. And so this provisional decision proposes that.
Responses the provisional decision:
NW agreed. Mr T made the following comments:
- He maintains he had never completed a partial transfer form.
- There wasnt any option online to choose a partial or full transfer. 
- He hadnt seen a screen which said the switch would be partial.
- His account at bank A was closed automatically, not by himself.
- He believes he should receive the incentive of £200, plus compensation of £300.
I now need to consider these comments and decide on a final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very grateful for Mr Ts comments, which Ive considered again in the light of his 
complaint and the evidence I reviewed.And I am satisfied that the points now made by Mr T were considered by me in issuing the 
provisional decision. And therefore, my final decision is the same as the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society must:
- Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman