DRN-3428993
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the outcome of her Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) 
claim against Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited trading as Omni Capital, for some 
allegedly mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
Ms J is represented by a firm of solicitors. She bought a solar panel system from a supplier 
(S) in October 2017. S has since gone out of business. The system was financed by a 
£6,500, 84-month, fixed term loan from Omni. With interest, the total payable by Ms J over 
the 7 years of the loan was to be just under £9,000.
Ms J says that she was told the solar panel system would pay for itself. At the time of the 
sale she was provided with a solar quotation which estimated shed achieve benefits of 
around £1,018 a year. This was set out in a table that showed how the benefits would be 
applied to an example 10-year loan with similar monthly payments to Ms Js. This indicated 
that the panels would effectively pay for themselves by year 11.
Within a couple of years of having the panels, Ms J realised that they werent producing the 
income that shed expected. And she was struggling to pay the monthly payments. So, she 
refinanced the loan with a bank and paid the Omni loan off early. 
Ms J brought a complaint to Omni claiming that the benefits of the panels had been 
misrepresented to her. She says she would never have bought them had she known they 
wouldnt produce the income that she expected. As compensation, her solicitors requested 
that the loan be recalculated to make it self-funding. They also asked for £1,500 toward the 
costs of a replacement inverter - that she hadnt been told would have to be replaced at 
some point - and £500 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Omni didnt accept Ms Js claim. Despite her solicitors responding to challenge this, Omni 
didnt reconsider the claim, nor did it open a complaint, despite a clear indication of customer 
dissatisfaction. So, Ms Js solicitors brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. And she recommended that the 
loan be made self-funding over a 10-year period, simple interest at 8% a year be paid on any 
overpayments and Ms J get £100 compensation for the trouble and upset shed been 
caused.
Omni didnt agree. So, the matter was passed to me for a decision. In advance of this final 
decision, I issued a provisional decision. Ms Js solicitors responded to that by sending me a 
copy of some of the refinance information. This showed that the third-party bank loan, that 
Ms J had taken out to re-finance the Omni loan, had subsequently been re-financed again, 
two years later, as part of a re-mortgage of Ms Js property. There is still more information to 
come over from the solicitors about the first bank loan. But that can be provided to Omni in 
due course to enable it to do the calculations required for the redress that I shall be 
awarding. 
Disappointingly, Omni didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said: Both Ms Js solicitors and Omni are aware of our approach 
to solar panel mis-sale complaints. So, I dont intend to set it out in detail here. There 
appears to be no dispute that Section 75 of the Act applies to Ms Js purchase from S. And 
under Section 56 of the Act, Omni must take responsibility for any misrepresentations made 
by S.
Ill start by saying that I appreciate why Omni was concerned about the evidence in this 
complaint and the conflict between some of the content in Ms Js witness statement and 
what had been said by the solicitors in their letter of claim. Quite clearly there is an element 
of templates having been used here and that does tend to confuse the facts.
However, I need to balance up all the evidence and am required to reach my findings on 
what is more likely than not to have happened. Whilst I have Ms Js testimony, the most 
persuasive evidence that there was a misrepresentation is the sales quotation itself. In that, 
Ms J is told that she will receive income of over £1000 a year. The Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) and 
export payments estimated in the quotation were much less than this  around £240  and 
no indication is given as to where the balance of the savings were to be achieved. Electricity 
savings were never going to be another £770 odd. But nonetheless, Ms J is told that shell 
be getting £1,018 a year from the panels.
The quotation itself is quite generic and talks about a 4 kW solar panel system generating 
3,568 kWh a year. Ms Js MCS certificate predicts shell get 3,132 kWh a year. So, its not 
that different from the example given. And the FIT readings that Ive been provided dont 
appear to indicate that the system isnt performing as expected. So, I think Ms J was entitled 
to expect that this quotation had been tailored to her circumstances. And that means that the 
loan table was important in terms of her expectations of the returns she could receive.
Ms J has unsurprisingly found that the panels havent produced an income anywhere near 
the £1,000 a year she was led to expect. So, its my finding that there was misrepresentation 
here. That statement was clearly untrue and she does appear to have relied on it when 
deciding to make the purchase.
Ive looked at the loan comparison table in the quote and have considered the increases in 
benefits that were also predicted over subsequent years (through energy price inflation, etc). 
Those show that Ms Js £9,000 liability to Omni, had the loan run to term, would be paid off 
over 8 years. So thats the period that Ive found she was more likely than not told by S 
would be needed to self-fund the cost of her panels.
I appreciate the discrepancies in the evidence. But memories do fade, and I think Ms Js solicitors could have presented her case a little better. But that doesnt take away from the 
fact that the representations made in the quote were misleading. And Ive found that Ms J 
wouldnt have bought these panels had she known these were incorrect.
Upon learning that the panels were producing nowhere near the savings expected, Ms J 
decided to re-finance her loan. I understand that she did this through a bank. I havent been 
provided with any details of the new loan taken out, how much interest it involved, whether 
the whole amount borrowed was used to pay off the Omni loan, how much has been paid 
and indeed whether or not anything is still outstanding on it. In response to this provisional 
decision, Ms Js solicitors should please send me those details as they are relevant to the 
redress that I will be awarding. A copy of the loan agreement and a full statement showing 
all repayments made should be provided too. These will be given to Omni to calculate the 
redress.
When we look at complaints involving re-financing, its our usual approach to require that the 
lender consider any principal, interest and charges on that new loan when calculating any 
overpayments the customer has made. Thats because her payments for that loan are also a 
loss that Ms J will suffer because the panels werent self-funding as she was told they would 
be. The refinancing was done to reduce the cost of the loan to Ms J, so its only fair and 
reasonable that this is taken into account in the calculations, in the same way any principal 
or interest she would otherwise have paid to Omni would have been. So, the principal, 
interest and charges that Ms J has paid need to be included in Omnis calculation as to 
whether any overpayments have been made on this loan. The details that Ive asked Ms Js 
solicitors to provide should enable Omni to do this.
Like our investigator, I consider that the most appropriate redress here is for the loan to be 
made self-funding. That way Ms J will only pay the same amount for the panels as that 
which she receives in benefits from them. Given my findings above that Ms J was likely told 
that the panels would be self-funding over 8 years, thats the period that it is fair and 
reasonable for Omni to use in calculating the benefit of the panels to Ms J. Omni should use 
the actual FIT and electricity use figures that are available and, where they are not, the 
standard assumptions that we apply for these types of case. That may include a 37% 
assumed electricity use.
I know that the solicitors have suggested in their claim letter a different method to that which 
we usually require to make the panels self-funding. But I dont think its appropriate for me to 
change the standard approach that we use for these types of complaint. Many claims 
management companies have suggested different methodologies are used. And each 
financial services business does it slightly differently. But with the number of these 
complaints being handled by both the businesses and our service, its just not appropriate 
that we consider applying different methods of calculating redress unless there is a 
compelling reason in an individual case to do so. I havent found any such compelling reason 
here.
Ms J has not had the use of the money that she will have overpaid for the panels for the last 
few years. So, I will also be requiring that Omni pay her simple interest at 8% a year on any 
overpayments until such time as theyre refunded.
Ms J will also have been upset and inconvenienced by Omnis rejection of her claim when 
its one I think should have been upheld. For that I shall be awarding her £100 
compensation.Ms Js solicitors have asked that she be compensated for not being told that the inverter 
would at some point need replacing during the lifetime of the panels. I dont think thats 
appropriate. Theres no evidence that the inverter has failed, nor that it will during the 
apparent 10-year warranty given by S in this case. If it is to fail, given S is no longer around, 
then thats something that Ms J would be able to raise with Omni at the time. But in any 
event, if the inverter is to fail after the end of the warranty, I consider that the benefits that 
Ms J will continue to get from the panels after the 8 years have passed, should be more than 
enough to pay for any maintenance required. So, she shouldnt be out of pocket.
Having heard back from Ms Js solicitors, Ive considered the information about the re-
financing loans that theyve provided. That information doesnt change my provisional 
findings, which I adopt in full in this final decision. But I will clarify the redress below, given 
the existence of a further re-financing of the bank loan used to pay off the Omni loan.
The Omni loan was paid off in October 2019 and Im satisfied that Ms J took out a loan with 
her bank for £7,000 to do that (Loan 2). £5,041.06 of Loan 2 appears to have been used to 
pay off the Omni loan. So, its any interest and charges on that amount that Omni will need 
to use to calculate the redress.
Ms J subsequently re-mortgaged her home in May 2021 and part of that loan (Loan 3) was 
used to pay off Loan 2. When considering redress in complaints like Ms Js, well generally 
only require the business to take into account the first re-finance (here Loan 2) when 
calculating the additional cost to the customer. Here Im satisfied that Loan 2 was taken out 
specifically to re-finance the Omni loan and to reduce the interest rate Ms J was paying 
because it wasnt self-financing as shed expected.
Ms J subsequently re-mortgaged her home and I expect she did this to fix the rate of interest 
she was paying for that. But the predominant reason for taking out that loan wont have been 
because the solar panels werent self-funding - by far the bulk of Loan 3 will have been used 
for other purposes. So, its not appropriate that I require that Omni incorporate any interest 
and charges on Loan 3 in the redress payable here.
So, Omni need only consider the cost to Ms J incurred through Loan 2 when calculating the 
redress that Ive set out below. And when calculating that, it only need use the principal, 
interest and charges applicable to the portion of Loan 2 that Ms J used to repay the Omni 
Loan - £5,041.06.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited trading as Omni Capital do the following:
Recalculate the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income 
to Ms J from the panels over an eight-year period, so she pays no more than that;
Allow Ms J to keep the solar panel system;
Refund Ms J any overpayments made on the Omni loan, together with 8% simple 
interest* a year on those amounts from the date that they were paid until when 
theyre refunded;
Refund Ms J any overpayments that shes paid on the proportion of Loan 2 that she 
used to pay off the Omni loan, together with 8% simple interest* a year on those 
amounts already paid from the date that they were paid until when theyre refunded;Pay Ms J the difference between any amount she owed on Loan 2 when it was re-
financed by Loan 3 and any amount she would still have owed at that time if the 
system had been self-funding over an 8-year period; and
Pay Ms J £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Omni may be required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Ms J request it, Omni should provide her with a statement of the tax deducted so that 
she can reclaim this if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman