DRN-4453685
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has refused to refund the money he lost as a result of
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr W invested £6,878 in a company (G) that he had found via a Facebook advert. He set up
an account with a cryptocurrency platform as he was told this was needed to connect with
Gs Bitcoin trading platform. He transferred the money on 12 April 2021 in two faster
payments of £2,124 and £4,754. He had previously sent a $200 deposit that was then
successfully refunded to test the legitimacy of the opportunity. Later, after he was advised
to place certain trades, he lost his investment that he believed had grown to $90,000. In July
2022 when he was told he would need to make further deposits he grew suspicious and
contacted Lloyds. Mr W did not respond to its requests for more information about the scam. 
Lloyds said it was unable to complete an investigation as a result.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said the transactions were not out of
character and so the bank was not wrong when it did not intervene.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the payments were a
significant departure from his payment history and Lloyds should have acted to protect him.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send in any 
comments or new information by 14 November 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
I dont consider the first payment request was so unusual that Lloyds ought to have had
concern. Theres a balance that must be struck  banks need to be alert to fraud and scams,
but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction as this would cause huge
disruption to legitimate payments. I think it is reasonable for Lloyds to take into account a
number of factors, not just the fact it was going to a cryptocurrency platform. It was a
legitimate trading platform. So I dont find it acted unfairly by not blocking or intervening in
the first payment on solely that basis.
I think the position changed when Mr W made the second transfer for £4,754 though. Mr W
had never made multiple transfers of this value to third parties on the same day. Two hours
earlier hed transferred £2,124 to a cryptocurrency exchange and he now was making a
further request to transfer over double that value. This meant Mr W was asking to transfer a
total of £6,878 to a cryptocurrency exchange. This was out of character and there was a
pattern of payments emerging that could be seen as consistent with investment scams of
this nature.
In the circumstances, I consider Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened when the
second payment request was made. Im not persuaded that the fact the payment was going
to Mr Ws own account and so appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control
should have satisfied Lloyds that he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by this time,
banks had, or ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these types of
investment scams work  including that a customer often moves money to a crypto account
in their own name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able to identify
the risk of harm from fraud.
Ive then thought about what would have happened if Lloyds had intervened and asked
proportionate questions when Mr W made the £4,754 payment request. I see no reason why
Mr W wouldnt have told the truth. I think Lloyds should have asked Mr W questions around
how he found out about the investment, what he understood about the investment and the
return, why he was paying a cryptocurrency exchange and what he understood about
regulation. And I think Lloyds would have warned Mr W about the risks involved in trading in
cryptocurrency and the prevalence of scams in this area.
If Lloyds had done so I think its more likely than not Mr Ws loss would have been avoided.
Mr W was responding to an advert on social media, he didnt have a good understanding of
the investment he believed he was making. He had no documentation, had done little due
diligence, and G was never registered with the FCA. So I think an effective intervention from
Lloyds would have broken the spell of the scam and prevented Mr W from suffering financial
harm.
Should Mr W bear some responsibility for his loss?
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr W should share responsibility for his loss. On
balance, I dont think he should. I say this because:
Mr W was an inexperienced investor and didnt know what kind of checks he needed
to complete to protect himself from cruel scammers.
He completed a test he thought to be appropriate by making a small payment and
asking for this to be returned. When this was done seamlessly he was satisfied the
opportunity was legitimate. I appreciate allowing a small withdrawal to be made is a
cruel trick played by scammers to entice a victim to part with funds, but Mr W wasnt
aware of this.
Mr W has said he was able to log into an online trading platform and could see how
his investment was performing. It looked legitimate and made Mr W think he was
dealing with a genuine company.
It is important to remember Lloyds is the expert in fraud prevention, and not Mr W.
Did Lloyds do what it could to recover Mr Ws funds?
In this case Mr Ws funds went to his account at a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and
were then moved out of this account. In the circumstances, I dont consider there was any
prospect of Lloyds recovering Mr Ws funds.
In summary I find the second payment ought to have triggered Lloyds to intervene and had it
done so it could have prevented Mr Ws loss in part. From the available evidence I have not
been able to assess if this intervention would also have prevented the loss of the first
transaction.
Lloyds must therefore refund £4,754 and pay interest on the amount at the rate of 8% simple
per year from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement (less tax if properly
deductible).Mr W accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code doesnt 
apply in this case as the payments were made to an account in Mr Ws own name.
As neither party submitted any new information or comments for me to consider, I have no 
reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in the provisional decision.
It follows I find Lloyds is liable for the second payment for the reasons set out above. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must refund £4,754 to Mr W and pay interest on the amount at the rate of 8% simple
per year from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement (less tax if properly
deductible).
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ws complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC must now put things right as set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman