DRN-4223592
The complaint
Mr M complains about ARAG Allgemeine Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft (ARAG) and 
their failure to provide him with a replacement car following his involvement in a road traffic 
accident.
What happened
On 15 December 2022, Mr M contacted the administrator of his motor insurance policy, who 
Ill refer to as B, to make them aware of his involvement in a road traffic accident. Due to 
Mr Ms description of the accident circumstances, B initially took the decision to refer Mr Ms 
claim to a third-party company on a non-fault basis. But the third-party insurer refused to 
deal with the claim on this basis and so, the claim was referred back to B and the 
underwriter of Mr Ms motor insurance policy, who Ill refer to as C.
By 22 December, Mr M still hadnt been provided with a replacement car while his own car 
was awaiting inspection. So, he contacted B to ask for one to be provided. In this call, B 
confirmed that Mr M held Guaranteed Replacement Car (GRC) cover, which was 
underwritten by ARAG. But B, who were acting on ARAGs behalf, stated this cover couldnt 
be used until C confirmed they wouldnt provide a courtesy car themselves. Mr M was 
unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy that he paid an additional premium for the GRC cover but wasnt able to 
use it initially. He didnt think it was reasonable that hed been left without a replacement car 
for 21 days and so, he wanted to be compensated for the upset and inconvenience this 
caused him. 
ARAG responded to the complaint and initially didnt uphold it. They thought the delay in 
providing Mr M with a replacement car through his GRC cover was caused by delays C were 
responsible for, that they couldnt control. So initially, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. But ARAG reviewed this response a few weeks later and offered to pay Mr M 
£50 to compensate him for the calls hed made to them, and any inconvenience hed been 
caused. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the GRC cover terms 
and conditions stated Mr M shouldve been provided with a replacement car for up to 28 
days, irrespective of the delays in Cs decision as his actual motor insurer. So, our 
investigator thought Mr M had been without a replacement car for 20 days that ARAG were 
responsible for and he recommended ARAG pay Mr M £10 per day loss of use, totalling 
£200, on top of the £50 already paid.
ARAG agreed with this recommendation. But Mr M didnt. He didnt think the £200 was 
enough to reflect the inconvenience he and his family were caused by him being without a 
replacement car, especially over the Christmas period. And he didnt think it was enough to 
act as a deterrent for ARAG to act better in future claims. So, Mr M suggested a 
compensatory payment of £2,000, based on £100 a day, as being more appropriate. As Mr 
M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and why. I understand Mr M has raised a separate 
complaint with C, the insurer of his motor insurance policy. As this complaint is about a 
separate insurer altogether, I wont be commenting on the actions of C. Or holding ARAG 
responsible for them. I must also make it clear that my role, and the role of our service, is to 
act as an impartial and independent third-party when considering any complaint. It is not our 
role to punish a business such as ARAG, this would be the role of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, any award or direction I make is intended solely to 
recognise the impact on Mr M. It is not to act as a deterrent for ARAG, or the industry as a 
whole.
I note ARAG accepted our investigators recommendation that they should pay Mr M a 
further £200 to recognise that Mr M was without a replacement car when he was entitled to 
one under the cover they provided. As ARAG accepted this recommendation, I think its 
reasonable for me to assume that ARAG have accepted their failure here. So, I dont intend 
to discuss the merits of the complaint in any significant detail.
But for completeness, I want to reassure both ARAG and Mr M that I have read through the 
policy documentation. And Ive seen the GRC cover terms and conditions explain that A 
replacement vehicle will be provided until the earliest of (i) the date of completion of any 
necessary repairs to the insured vehicle, (ii) the date on which any hire vehicle is offered to 
you or (iii) the date on which any courtesy car is made available to you by any person, firm 
or company responsible for carrying out or paying for any repairs to the insured vehicle.
So, I think these terms and conditions make it clear that Mr M shouldve been eligible for a 
replacement car up until a hire car was offered through the third-party company instructed 
initially, or up until C decided to provide Mr M with a courtesy car. Instead, Mr M was told he 
would need to wait until those options had been exhausted, which I dont think fell in line with 
the terms of the cover he held. So, I do think Mr M shouldve been provided with a 
replacement car sooner and because of this, Im satisfied ARAG acted unfairly here. As I 
think ARAG acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think ARAG should do to put things 
right which Im aware is now the main point that remains in dispute.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr M back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had ARAG acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, had ARAG acted fairly, I think they wouldve looked to arrange a 
replacement car for Mr M as soon as he notified them about the claim and the fact he was 
without access to his damaged car. I note this notification occurred on 15 December 2022. 
And that by not doing so, Mr M was without use of a driveable car. 
I dont think it would be realistic to expect ARAG to source a replacement car the same day 
but I do think they shouldve acted in a way that gave them a reasonable chance of providing a car the following day. And I note Mr M didnt receive a replacement car until 4 January 
2023, some 20 days later.
So, I do think Mr M was without access to a car for 20 days when he shouldnt have been, 
had ARAG acted fairly. And so, I think Mr M should be compensated for this, to recognise 
the inconvenience this caused.
In situations such as this, standard industry approach is for an insurer to compensate a 
customer £10 per day for each day they are without access to a car when they shouldnt 
have been. So, when following this approach, a total compensatory payment of £200 is 
calculated and I note this is what our investigator recommended ARAG pay, on top of the 
£50 already paid in March 2023.
And having considered this recommendation, Im satisfied it falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. As Ive already 
explained, this payment falls in line with standard industry approach for loss of use 
compensatory payments. And this approach is based around industry guidelines set by the 
industry regulator. So, Im satisfied this payment compensates Mr M for his lack of access to 
a replacement car, and the £50 compensates him for any emotional impact he felt. While I 
do recognise his family may have been impacted in providing alternative transportation, 
particularly over the festive period, our service is only able to consider, and compensate for, 
impact directly to the main policyholder and customer of ARAG. So, the additional payment 
of £200 is one I am directing ARAG to pay.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for and falls some way short of his 
financial expectations. But I want to reiterate again its not our services role to punish a 
business such as ARAG. And so, we wouldnt expect ARAG to pay Mr M a compensatory 
amount calculated on what ARAG may or may not have been charged providing a car on a 
credit hire basis. Instead, as a car wasnt provided and so costs werent incurred by ARAG, 
wed expect them to compensate Mr M for his loss of use, and the inconvenience he 
experienced solely. And I think an additional payment of £200 fairly does so on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about ARAG Allgemeine 
Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr M an additional amount of £200 to recognise the impact of not being provided 
a replacement car had.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman