The complaint
Mrs L complains that AXA Insurance Plc (AXA) have declined part of her claim in respect of 
water damage to her property.
What happened
Mrs Ls cellar flooded after heavy rain and she contacted AXA on 25 September 2018. The 
water was several inches deep and there was significant damage. AXA appointed loss 
adjusters who inspected the property on 1 October. AXA arranged for the cellar to be 
pumped out on 5 October. Mrs L says she asked that the pipe be run through the cellar 
window and left a key for the window. Mrs L returned home and says she found the hall floor 
and a nearby rug were wet. She says she called AXAs contractor who told her it had 
pumped out via the hall and front door and spilt some water but had cleaned it up. She says 
the carpet on the cellar stairs was also wet. 
The cellar needed to be pumped again on 8 October following further flooding and Mrs L 
says the same method was used with the stair carpet and hall becoming wet again. Mrs L 
says she had to remove the carpet because of a bad smell and notified the loss adjuster.
AXA accepted the claim for both the contents and the building work. Mrs L wanted to use her 
own builder to carry out the repairs in the cellar.  AXA costed and agreed his quotation and 
this work was completed in January 2019. 
Mrs L says a few days after the pumping out AXAs contractors returned to remove the 
contents of the cellar and afterwards she noticed cracks in the porcelain floor tiles near the 
cellar door. This was the area Mrs L says was wet after the pumping. She says she 
contacted the loss adjuster about this saying it needed to be dealt with. 
Mrs L says she later noticed that tiles near the front door had begun to lift. Mrs L says she 
contacted the loss adjuster again in December 2018 and January 2019 to ask about the tiles 
before paying her builder. She then emailed on 29 March 2019 saying she thought the pump 
out was to blame and the phrasing used suggests it is following up an earlier discussion. 
This received an auto response saying the individual was on holiday and wasnt otherwise 
replied to. 
Mrs L sent another email in May 2019. There was a reply to this but it went into Mrs Ls junk 
email folder and wasnt seen until later. This requested more information and Mrs L sent this 
in August 2019. The loss adjuster attended to inspect the floor tiles. It asked Mrs L to obtain 
an estimate, which she did. 
The loss adjuster prepared a report for AXA. This said Mrs L hadnt reported the problem 
until May 2019. It said it was plausible that trapped moisture had caused the tiles to lift and 
DRN-1936795crack. The loss adjuster said the tiles couldnt be matched or repaired. And as they covered 
much of the ground floor the replacement cost was significant although the loss adjuster 
didnt challenge the estimate provided. It included the full estimate to the reserve for the 
potential cost of this additional claim reported to AXA. 
AXA checked with the contractor who had pumped the cellar. It also noted the delay in 
reporting the problem. It said it had only pumped out the basement and left drying equipment 
in the house for around two days because Mrs L had appointed her own builder. AXA 
declined the claim for the tiles. It said there was no evidence to show its contractor was at 
fault and any drying or damp issues were the responsibility of Mrs Ls builder. It also said 
alternatively the damage could have occurred later. 
Mrs L complained. As AXA couldnt complete its own complaints process within eight weeks 
and she wanted to sell the house, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into it and upheld Mrs Ls complaint. She said the evidence 
suggested Mrs L had notified AXA whilst the claim was still ongoing, that is before March 
2019. She was persuaded by the report that the damage was probably caused by moisture, 
most likely resulting from the pumping out process. Our investigator said AXA should pay the 
replacement cost of the tiles.
In response AXA raised some points about why the pumping had been done by running a 
pipe through the hall rather than out of the cellar window. It said this was at Mrs Ls request 
as she was concerned that damage to contents within the basement could be sustained. It 
also asked whether Mrs Ls builder had provided a certificate of drying. It also asked why 
Mrs L had taken so long, around six months, to raise the issue. 
Our investigator said the method of pumping shouldnt be relevant as AXAs contractor had a 
responsibility to do this safely without causing damage however it was done. She noted that 
the same contractors report seemed to accept the pipe was leaking on the carpet on the 
stairs, so it was possible that water had leaked elsewhere during the pumping. She said AXA 
had approved Mrs Ls builders schedule of works. These made no mention of drying out as 
virtually all the work was in the cellar where everything was being stripped out. She said Mrs 
L had raised the issue on several occasions before May 2019. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint. 
Mrs L subsequently located text messages shed exchanged with AXAs loss adjuster on 16 
October 2018 and provided copies. She raises the issue of cracks in the hallway near the 
cellar door. This is replied to with a promise to follow up the next day. 
AXA doesnt agree with our investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My Provisional Decision
I issued my provisional decision on 19 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
There isnt any dispute that the floor was damaged and could only be replaced rather than 
repaired. There has been debate about pumping methods and who decided on them and 
drying requirements which I think stem from AXAs view that the damage to the tiles wasnt reported until several months after the original incident meaning the cause of the damage 
couldnt be clearly identified. 
Im not convinced by AXAs explanation that the hall route was requested by Mrs L rather 
than the window to avoid the risk of damage to the contents of the cellar. The contents of the 
cellar had already been damaged by the water that needed to be pumped out. And the 
contents were duly settled as part of the claim.
According to the loss adjusters report of the initial flood:
Due to the extent of standing water in the basement a large amount of contents were 
affected. We appointed      to carry out a beyond economical repair list and dispose.
It is hard to see why Mrs L would have wanted pumping to be carried out through 
undamaged parts of her house instead. So I dont accept that point. Even if Mrs L had 
requested the route (and she says she didnt) if this method was unsuitable I dont see why 
an expert contractor agreed to it.
The contractors report about the pumping also states the following: 
The only joint in the pipes was on the carpeted staircase. I believe this was cleaned 
along with a rug (FOC) as a courtesy
This seems to accept the pipe was leaking. Mrs L says the rug was in the hallway not the 
cellar. I think it is plausible that water leaked in or otherwise entered the hall and I think the 
contractor had a duty of care to minimise further water damage whilst pumping out a flood, 
however it was done.
However In light of the text messages Mrs Ls exchanged with AXAs loss adjuster on 16 
October 2018 I dont think arguments about pumping methods are overly relevant. I say this 
as I think AXAs principal argument in rejecting liability for the tiles is that due to the delay in 
reporting the damage until May 2019 the cause of the problem cant be established.
The texts were as follows: 
From Mrs L:
Hello  . I hope you are well. Ive had    round to list and skip items and Ive noticed 
that there are a couple of cracks in my hallway from the cellar door and the just the 
corner of the hallway where theyve pumped the water out and it seeped into my rug 
etc this needs to be sorted also. .
And in reply: 
Hi , Im out of the office today on visits but I am back in tomorrow. I am due to review 
your claim tomorrow before I go on annual leave. Is it okay if I call you before close of 
business tomorrow to discuss the points in your text above? Kind regards.
This exchange occurred eight days after the second pumping exercise. The same contractor 
who pumped the cellar attended to skip the contents of the cellar. So it seems to be still 
involved in the claim at the point these texts were sent and that Mrs Ls builder hadnt 
commenced his work at this time. I think the texts show AXA was informed of the issue in good time for them to investigate 
further if required. And I think it likely that Mrs L did follow up on this in December and 
January as she recollects before sending emails in March and May 2019.
AXA was aware that Mrs L was going through difficult family matters during and after the 
initial claim (there was a separate, earlier complaint in relation to this which AXA upheld) in 
addition to the stress of ongoing building work. So in view of these issues I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mrs L to only follow up on the tile problem occasionally prior to her email of 
March 2019 given she had already notified, and received acknowledgment from, the loss 
adjuster about the issue in October 2018. 
As the loss adjusters report of September 2019 concludes: 
Due to the time lapsed it is difficult to confirm the cause of damage but on the balance of 
probabilities it is plausible that the cracked tiles have been damaged due to trapped 
moisture.
So given the evidence I have seen I think Mrs L did report the damage in good time and that 
it is reasonable to conclude that it resulted as a consequence of the pump outs. The cracks 
appeared when AXAs contractors were still involved and before Mrs Ls builder started work 
and were reported to AXA at the time and not six months later. As such I think this damage 
should be treated as part of the original claim and cash settled in the same manner. 
Mrs L provided an estimate for the work at AXAs request. The loss adjuster didnt dispute 
this estimate at the time. It used this estimate within its reserve for the potential claim costs 
in its report for AXA of September 2019. So, I think it is fair and reasonable that AXA should 
settle the claim by paying Mrs L the amount quoted in this estimate. 
I also think Mrs L has suffered some trouble and upset over a considerable period of time as 
a result of these issues and in needing to bring a complaint to resolve them, so AXA should 
also pay her £250 in compensation for this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 Jun 2020.
Response to Provisional Decision 
Mrs L said she had nothing to add.
AXA said it had nothing to add.
My findings
Ive reconsidered the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
In summary I think Mrs L did make AXA aware there was a problem with the tiles at the time, 
which was probably caused water leaking during the pumping out of the cellar. So it should 
be treated as part of the claim and cash settled. I think AXA had reasonable opportunity to 
settle this aspect between it being reported on 16 October 2018 and it closing the claim on 
13 March 2019. I also think Mrs L suffered more trouble than and upset than she should 
have as a result of this and should be paid compensation of £250.  
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold the complaint against AXA Insurance Plc.
I direct AXA Insurance Plc to pay Mrs L the amount quoted in the estimate to replace the 
tiles and a further amount of £250 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
AXA Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If AXA Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman