DRN-3374587
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank) have failed to 
refund £1,450 she lost as part of a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In summary, Mrs A paid £1,450 to Coinipop (a legitimate cryptocurrency 
platform) using her M&S Bank credit card in November 2019, where the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to a fraudulent broker (Coin-Bits) from the Coinipop platform. 
She realised she had been scammed when she was unable to make a withdrawal and 
discovered reviews online of others who said they had been scammed by Coin-Bits.
Mrs A reported the fraud to M&S Bank in February 2020. It raised a chargeback, which was 
successfully defended by Coinipop, as they had provided evidence to show that the money 
she deposited had been sent to a genuine crypto wallet on the platform. It also considered 
whether she had a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75), but concluded that it wouldnt cover the transaction, as gambling would not be 
considered as either goods or services under the Act.
Unhappy with this, Mrs A referred her complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She concluded that there were no valid grounds for a chargeback or Section 75 
claim to succeed, and also didnt think the payment was unusual enough such that it ought 
to have triggered an intervention by M&S Bank. Mrs A didnt agree, so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
1. With regards to Mrs As chargeback claim, Mastercard have clarified that if a 
merchant doesnt make funds available on a trading account in which theyve been 
deposited, then a chargeback right may exist. But in this instance, Mrs A made her 
payment directly to Coinipop for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which she duly 
received. Her funds would have been available to trade from her Coinipop platform; it 
was only when she transferred them to the scammer that the funds were 
subsequently lost. So, she could not claim that she did not receive what she had paid 
for using her M&S credit card, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency from 
Coinipop. The merchant was able to successfully defend the chargeback claim by 
showing evidence that Mrs As funds had been deposited into her crypto wallet as 
intended after she purchased the currency. So, I do not think M&S Bank acted 
unreasonably by refusing to pursue the chargeback claim any further in light of this.
2. With regards to M&S Banks assessment of Mrs As Section 75 claim, I appreciate 
she disagrees that her deposit with Coinipop could be considered a form of gambling 
(rather than purchasing goods or services) as the bank has claimed. But even if it 
could be regarded as the purchase of goods or services, it still cannot be said that 
she would have a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against Coinipop, 
given she received the cryptocurrency she paid for. I have not been made aware of 
any other compelling reason as to why Mrs A wouldve had a valid claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against Coinipop, so there would have been 
no basis for a Section 75 claim to proceed.
3. I appreciate that Mrs A may have had successful claims and received a refund from 
other banks that were also part of the same scam. But the reasons why those claims 
were successful is not relevant here. I can only consider whether M&S Bank has 
dealt with Mrs As Section 75 claim fairly based on the particular circumstances 
presented. The fact that other banks may have given a refund does not mean that 
M&S Bank would be obliged to do the same. And given the circumstances of Mrs As 
disputed transaction did not fulfil all the requirements for a valid Section 75 claim to 
be made, I do not think the bank acted unreasonably by declining it. 
4. Ive also considered whether M&S Bank should have done more to prevent Mrs A 
from falling victim to the scam. as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
5. However, the payment Mrs A made was not unusually large, such that it would have 
appeared unusual, as it was within her spend limit of £1,500. She was also making a 
payment to a legitimate company, rather than making it directly to a fraudulent 
broker. I understand that Mrs A feels that Coinipop are also scammers, but Ive not 
seen enough persuasive evidence to demonstrate this is the case. There are no 
warnings about this company published by the FCA, for example, and neither are 
there any warnings about them on the IOSCO investor alerts platform. And I can also 
see that Coinipop are licensed and regulated in other jurisdictions outside of the 
United Kingdom, which would not be typical of a fraudulent company. 
6. So, overall, Im not persuaded there was any compelling reason for the payment to 
have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that Mrs A might have been at risk of 
falling for a scam. Therefore, I dont think M&S Bank can fairly be held liable for her 
loss here, as Im not persuaded there was any obligation on it to intervene or prevent 
the payment in these circumstances.
7. Mrs A also submits that M&S Bank should have refunded the amount she lost under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. However, the code only applies 
to authorised push payments (such as faster payments), so it would not cover the 
payment made from Mrs As credit card.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs A, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold M&S Bank liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 Jack Ferris
Ombudsman