DRN-3941247
The complaint
Mr H complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost to a scam, and it also 
handled poorly his related claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. In summary:
Between 22 April and 1 May 2020 Mr H made 10 debit card and 1 credit card payments, 
totalling £59,200 to an investment company that hed found after searching online. He 
was hoping to earn enough money to buy his house, as HSBC had previously refused to 
grant him a mortgage. He tried to make a small withdrawal from the investment, but the 
money was never released and he now thinks he was scammed.
Mr H notified HSBC about the situation in July 2021 after he was contacted by someone 
claiming they could help to get his money back. He hadnt raised his concerns previously 
because he had been experiencing poor mental health.
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr H asked this service to look into the matter.
I issued a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I couldnt fairly instruct 
HSBC to refund any of the disputed payments. But that it should pay £250 compensation to 
Mr H. I said, in summary that:
HSBC had dealt with Mr Hs claim about the one credit card payment he made to the 
investment company as a separate matter. But the circumstances that led Mr H to make 
the payments were the same, regardless of the payment method. So I thought it 
appropriate to consider all of the payments Mr H made to the investment company, 
irrespective of how they were made.
Whether or not Mr H had actually been scammed was less clear-cut in this case than in 
others Id seen. Hed made payments to a company which, since 2013, had been 
authorised and regulated overseas to provide investment services. And, under EU 
passporting rules, the company was also permitted to operate in the UK. But the FCA 
made an announcement about a month after Mr H made his final payment which 
indicated the company had been scamming people for some time. Overall, I thought that 
although Mr H sent his money to what was  at one time or another  a genuine 
investment business, it was more likely than not he, personally, fell victim to a scam. 
The FCAs announcement about the company came after Mr H made his payments. But 
there were warnings about it on the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) website which pre-dated his payments. And HSBC is aware of 
our approach that it is good industry practice for firms to have up-to-date watch-lists 
which cover the common types of scams and potential fraudsters and for those watch-
lists to be communicated internally with staff within one month of an alert being posted 
by the FCA or IOSCO. Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and lead to 
payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries and/or 
giving a scam warning. So I thought HSBC ought to have intervened when Mr H tried to 
make the first debit card payment. And I reached that conclusion despite the payment 
amount not having been significantly unusual or out of character given the way Mr H had 
historically operated his account.
I didnt think intervention from HSBC would have stopped Mr H from making the 
payments and suffering the financial losses hed claimed. HSBC ought to have provided 
a general warning about investment scams  as these were fairly common at that time  
and also to educate Mr H about the steps he could take to make sure he was dealing 
with a legitimate trader. But the IOSCO warnings didnt say explicitly the investment was 
a scam. And the company was regulated in another country and had passporting rights 
to offer financial services to UK customers. So I wasnt persuaded anything would have 
indicated to either the bank or Mr H, that he was looking to invest in, what weve 
subsequently learned, was likely to have been a scam. 
When concluding that intervention wouldnt have made a difference to Mr Hs decision to 
invest I also took into account that: 
Mr H said most of his communications with the investment company were 
undertaken through a portal to which he no longer has access. But he was able to 
provide a few email exchanges with the investment company. And I could see, within 
these documents, mention of the companys regulatory status and also some risk 
warnings about CfDs including that such investments involve significant loss of 
capital and may result in the loss of your entire balance. 
I was able to access some pages of the companys website which, at the time Mr H 
made payments, also prominently referred to trading Forex and CfDs and mentioned 
the high risk of losing your money. 
Mr H had sent a large number of large payments to online gambling companies from 
his HSBC current account in at least the year prior to making this investment. I could 
see significant winnings being paid back into his account too, but it seemed likely 
there may also have been times when he lost money. So it seemed reasonable to 
assume Mr H wasnt entirely risk-averse and he may have similarly been willing to 
put his money into a high risk investment in the hope of getting high returns quickly. 
In fact, hed told me specifically that this was his ultimate aim.
Mr H said hes largely computer-illiterate and had to ask his daughter to help him 
complete the steps he needed to, to set up his account with the investment company. 
He also said his mental health was already suffering at the point he made the 
payments. But it doesn't seem that his daughter raised any concerns about what he 
was undertaking. And the bank told me there was nothing on its records that 
indicated Mr H had previously told it about his mental ill-health.
In the circumstances I didnt think Mr Hs money could likely have been reclaimed under 
the VISA and/or Mastercard chargeback rules or that HSBC had any liability, in relation 
to the single payment made via Mr Hs credit card, under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
It wasnt not clear to me why HSBC didnt refer Mr Hs concerns to its fraud team when 
he first got in touch. He was clear in his initial correspondence that he thought hed been 
scammed and theres nothing in HSBC records that told me why it instead chose to 
proceed solely down the chargeback route. When this avenue proved unfruitful HSBC 
said it would refer the matter to the fraud team but, despite asking, I hadnt seen that the 
fraud team provided a final response.I explained why HSBC should pay £250 compensation to Mr H in recognition of any 
distress and/or inconvenient it caused due to its poor handling of his claim. In particular, I 
noted HSBCs failure to call Mr H at a convenient time, the unacceptably long waiting 
times when he tried to call the bank and its failure to make adjustment given Mr Hs 
mental ill-health and related vulnerabilities.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H noted that he couldnt argue with my findings 
but was disappointed with the outcome, in particular the £250 award. He asked that this be 
reconsidered.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider about the disputed transactions, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
I note Mr Hs disappointment with the £250 award. But I considered everything that 
happened and his submissions very carefully before making my decision. I must also keep in 
mind that some of the distress he was experiencing was likely due to having fallen victim to 
the scam. I dont doubt that HSBCs poor customer service may well have added to his 
upset. But I remain satisfied that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £250 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman