DRN-1568672
Complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
him with credit he couldn't afford.                         
Background
This complaint is about an open-ended credit facility and four high-cost short-term credit 
instalment loans which Sunny provided to Mr J. Sunny provided the open-ended credit 
facility in July 2014. And Mr Js final instalment loan was provided in January 2016.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Js complaint and thought he shouldnt have been provided with 
any further credit on the running account facility after the fifth drawdown on the facility in 
April 2014. Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr J, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr J was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided the sixth drawdown on the facility in May 2014. 
I say this because by this stage, it ought to have been apparent to Sunny that use of his 
facility suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of him clearing the balance within a 
reasonable period of time. And it also ought to have been apparent from his repayment 
history, which Sunny ought to have been monitoring that Mr J may well have been relying on 
the facility and borrowing further to make his payments. 
Sunny then transitioned Mr J from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt be 
used for extended periods to a series of instalment loans which had the same effect. In my 
view, throughout this period of time, Mr J was displaying a pattern consistent with someone 
who may have been in financial difficulty rather than to cover a short-term need.
Mr J had to pay interest and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on all credit from the sixth drawdown on the 
open-ended credit facility in May 2014 onwards;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges, should they 
have been paid, from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information relating to the open-ended credit facility from Mr Js 
credit file. The number of loans provided means that any information recorded about 
Mr Js instalment loans is adverse. So all reference to these loans should be 
removed from Mr Js credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Js complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr J compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman