DRN-2803696
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr G. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed about 79,349 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have a reasonable amount of wear and tear.
Advantage arent responsible for everything that goes wrong with the car. Theyre only 
responsible for the quality of the car when it is supplied to Mr G.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Advantage were responsible for the cars 
quality but if the fault occurs after six months, as is the case here, we are to assume the fault 
was not present when the car was supplied, unless the consumer can demonstrate 
otherwise
Im not persuaded that Mr G has been able to demonstrate the fault with oil pressure has 
been present from the point of supply. I say that because:
the report he has provided from a garage is in editable word format. I cant therefore 
be sure the content hasnt been amended and Im also not persuaded the report is 
truly independent as the garage may benefit from any subsequent work;
the independent engineers report provided by Advantage is from a company who 
specialise in providing impartial advice and who have explained their responsibility to 
the court to provide such advice. That engineer has explained that the oil pressure 
fluctuation is a known condition on higher mileage cars and should be regarded as 
normal wear and tear. It is his expert opinion that the fault is age related and not 
likely to have been present at the point of supply;
I understand that Mr G was unable to drive for almost a year, but the car was still 
driven close to 16,000 miles in an 18-month period. Thats about average mileage 
and I think its therefore fair to suggest that after that amount of mileage it is for Mr G 
to demonstrate the fault was present from the beginning.
Im not persuaded Mr G has been able to provide enough evidence to suggest the problems 
hes experienced with his car suggests it was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. Im not 
therefore asking Advantage to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman