DRN-3960061
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the decision made by HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI Global) following a 
claim under his pet insurance policy for his pet dog. 
What happened
HDI Global are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of 
the agent, company IF. As HDI Global have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
company IF, in my decision, any reference to HDI Global includes the actions of company IF. 
On 16 January 2020 Mr N took his pet dog, which Ill call B, to the vet. The appointment 
notes recorded P in for recheck mass as, O thinks mass on pectoral area grow since last 
seen. no other concerns discuss with O- poss lipoma or other type of mass, discuss with 
O about FNA explain limitations of method, O aware and understand, wait for FNA results 
and go from there with plan (monitor if only lipoma, remove if other type of sinister masses). 
On 23 January the vet proceeded with a fine needle aspiration (FNA) to determine the mass 
found on B. It was recorded Findings would be consistent with aspiration of a lipoma, 
although please note that incidental aspiration of subcutaneous fat would be cytologically 
identical. Monitoring is advisable and if the biological behaviour of this mass raises clinical 
concerns, re-aspiration, or surgical biopsy/excision with histopathology examination may be 
considered for further characterisation. 
On 15 July following a further appointment with the vet it was recorded subcutaneous mass 
on pectoral area 26/26mm(last year 18mm)- adv monitor- recheck lump in 6 mths and if 
growing, then decide for removal. 
On 10 October it was recorded suspected lipoma cranioventral chest 38mm diam, within 
skin, palpation consistent with lipoma, fna was also suggestive o will decide whether wants 
to proceed with surgery or not and call.. re this dog is apparently not covered by ins.
On 4 September 2021 Mr N purchased pet insurance with HDI Global through a comparison 
website. During the sales process Mr N was asked Is [B] showing any signs of illness or 
does [B] have any injuries or other pre-existing medical conditions? HDI Global have 
explained that answering Yes to this question would trigger a customer being redirected to 
other insurers as HDI Global do not provide insurance for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr N was sent a welcome email confirming details of his insurance with HDI Global. The 
welcome email included attachments for key documents. The statement of fact asked
You accept and understand that all medical conditions, illnesses or injuries, and 
directly related symptoms and/or reoccurrences of any of these at point of inception 
of the policy, will not be covered.
In response to this question, Mr Ns answer was recorded as Yes in the statement of fact 
document. 
Within the body of the email, it was also confirmed You can view your online documents 
here, access your online portal or submit a claim by selecting the relevant link here:
Policy wording
The Policy wording was hyperlinked so clicking on this wording would open the policy 
booklet for Mr Ns policy. Mr N says he did not receive the policy booklet. 
The policy booklet explained the policy would not provide cover for any pre-existing 
condition. The policy booklet included the following definitions:
Pre-existing condition
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, 
whether diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet 
or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 
days of the policy for illness or 48 hours in the case of an injury.
Illness/illnesses
Changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by an accident, or any 
which may be resulting from gradual or biological cause.
On 24 May 2022 following an appointment with the vet it was recorded Fatty lump on the 
chest getting bigger. O wants to drain? no fluids into that as solid even if soft. Said is better 
to remove now as if bigger we do not have space enoughO aware to check the insurance 
policy for any exclusions and to book for tomorrow or Thursday and to starve her since the 
12 am before. 
On the same date Mr N contacted HDI Global through their instant chat facility online. Mr N 
asked I am just enquiring if [B] would be covered if she was to have a non-malignant fatty 
mass lump removed by the vet? Mr N was informed Whilst I cannot guarantee cover, 
removal of a non-malignant fatty mass lump is something we would consider covering. 
On 30 May Mr N messaged HDI Global explaining She previously had the fatty lump 
drained approximately 3 years ago and the vet at the time said it may need draining again in 
the future or possible removal one day as it was likely to keep growing Given this history I 
just want to make sure that will be covered under my current policy with you before I agree 
to confirm the surgery with the vet. 
On 1 June Mr N was told that he wouldnt be covered for removal of the mass. This was 
because Bs condition would fall under the definition of a pre-existing condition under the 
policy and so wouldnt be covered. 
In October Mr N complained to HDI Global about their decision to not pay for Bs surgery. 
HDI Global responded to Mr Ns complaint saying that their decision not to pay the claim was 
in line with the policy exclusions. 
Mr N was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The investigator found that HDI Global had acted reasonably in 
applying the policy exclusion for declining Mr Ns claim, and didnt ask HDI Global to do 
anything in settlement of Mr Ns complaint. Mr N rejected these findings saying:
The T&C wording you refer to was never notified to me by the Insurer. I therefore 
took out the policy under false pretences and as a result have incurred a £1400 vet 
bill and a direct financial loss.I was well aware of [Bs] lump and that it may need future treatment, which is why I chose a policy whose legal T&Cs presented at the 
time (and now) do not specify this exclusion by definition.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N feels strongly that HDI Global have not dealt with his claim properly. I thank Mr N for 
taking the time to explain everything thats happened. I understand it has been a difficult time 
for Mr N.
 
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Its not disputed that the policy terms dont cover pre-existing conditions. Mr N says that I 
was well aware of [Bs] lump and that it may need future treatment, which is why I chose a 
policy whose legal T&Cs presented at the time (and now) do not specify this exclusion by 
definition. 
Mr N says that the policy booklet is not available on the online portal where other documents 
are stored. Ive considered the screenshot Mr N has sent of the online portal in support of 
this point. This shows links to various attachments but the policy document is not listed or 
available to view as an attachment. I have seen that the link to the policy document was in 
the body of the welcome email sent to Mr N. It wasnt a separate attachment. I think this 
reasonably explains why the screenshot Mr N has sent doesnt include the policy document. 
The screenshot does show that Mr N was sent the statement of fact. I have seen that this 
document included the question:
You accept and understand that all medical conditions, illnesses or injuries, and 
directly related symptoms and/or reoccurrences of any of these at point of inception 
of the policy, will not be covered.
In response to this question, Mr Ns answer was recorded as Yes in the statement of fact 
document. 
On balance I think HDI Global did enough to bring the policy exclusion to Mr Ns attention. 
The welcome email Ive seen included a link to the policy document, and the policy booklet 
clearly explained pre-existing medical conditions would not be covered. Mr N confirmed his 
awareness and agreement to this exclusion, as recorded in the statement of fact that he was 
sent a copy of. 
Mr N says that he was looking for insurance specifically for Bs treatment. I think that the 
policy exclusions make it clear that any illness, whether diagnosed or undiagnosed that has 
been identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the 
insurance would not be covered. 
Mr N feels strongly that B does not have an illness as defined by the policy terms. He says 
his vet would not describe the development of Bs fatty mass as an illness. Having reviewed 
the definition of illness, I dont agree. The policy terms define illness as Changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by an accident, or any which may be resulting from 
gradual or biological cause. 
Having reviewed the medical notes recorded each time B attended an appointment, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonably clear that there was an issue present with B, which would in 
future likely require surgery. At the time of taking out insurance I think its reasonable to say 
that Mr N had awareness of Bs condition, and the likelihood of surgery needed to remove 
the mass. The policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, so this surgery wouldnt have 
been covered, and the policy terms make this reasonably clear. 
Mr N feels strongly that the policy booklet containing the policy exclusion was not made 
available to him. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt support this. I think HDI Global did 
enough to make it reasonably clear to Mr N what the insurance policy with them would 
cover. As Bs condition would reasonably be classed as pre-existing, I think HDI Globals 
decision to decline Mr Ns claim is in line with the policy terms.
I appreciate Mr Ns disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr N 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that HDI Globals actions were wrong, or outside of the policy terms. So I wont 
be asking HDI Global to take any further action in response to this complaint. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman