DRN-1909226
The complaint
Miss H complains, with the help of Mrs H, that Nationwide Building Society:
Mis-sold a Fixed Rate Bond account to her.
Paid tax on the account that shouldnt have been deducted.
Didnt respond to the initial letter about the tax deduction.
Provided the wrong information in telephone calls.
What happened
In 2011 Miss H, through Mrs H, opened a Fixed Rate Bond account with Nationwide. This 
matured in 2014 but was reinvested and the account was finally closed in 2019. At this time 
Miss H became aware that tax had been deducted for 2012/2013 and Mrs H wrote to 
Nationwide on 26 July 2019 querying the deduction of tax.
She didnt get a response and there were then some telephone calls with Nationwide in 
which it told Mrs H that the account was an adults account and was in her name. Miss H 
also spoke to Nationwide and was told that it wasnt responsible for tax being deducted 
when it shouldnt have been. Mrs H sent a second letter based on what she had been told 
saying the account had been mis-sold to Miss H because she was a child.
Nationwide responded to the complaint and said that the fixed rate bond account hadnt 
been mis-sold as it was suitable for a child. But it accepted that it was responsible for not 
providing Mrs H with a tax exemption form in 2011 as it couldnt evidence that it had 
provided this. It also accepted it hadnt responded to the letter of 26 July 2019 and had 
wrongly said that the account was Mrs Hs name and that it wasnt responsible for the tax 
deduction. It offered £100 for these issues.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She said that Nationwide had accepted 
that tax was deducted from Miss Hs account because it hadnt got Mrs H to complete a tax 
exemption form when the bond was started in 2011. She said that Miss H would need to 
complete the relevant forms to get the tax back.
The investigator also noted that Nationwide accepted it had provided poor customer service 
because it had not responded to the initial complaint sent in July 2019 and had provided 
incorrect information in telephone calls in August 2019. 
But the investigator thought that the £100 it had sent Miss H for the trouble and upset 
caused by what it had got wrong was reasonable and said she wasnt going to ask it to do 
any more.
Mrs H said that she didnt agree with the investigator that £100 was a fair or reasonable 
amount for what Nationwide got wrong for the following reasons:
Nationwide failed to tell her about the tax exemptions for her daughter.
Nationwide had failed to tell her that it had completed tax exemption for 2014 
onwards.
It had taken Nationwide nine years to admit it had made a mistake.
Nationwide didnt respond to her first letter of complaint, so she had to send a 
second.
She has incurred mobile phone costs telephoning Nationwide.
She and her daughter have been provided with incorrect information by Nationwide 
on numerous occasions and it hasnt acted fairly or reasonably, or in a timely 
manner.
She and her daughter have been caused stress.
She has had nine years of very poor customer service and poor communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no issue that Nationwide got things wrong and the reason that Miss H has referred 
her complaint to us is because she doesnt think the £100 it offered to her for what it got 
wrong is enough.
I note that Mrs H initially complained that the account had been mis-sold because Miss H 
was a child. But this is because she was wrongly told this in a telephone call and Nationwide 
clarified in its FRL that it was suitable for Miss H. It isnt something she has argued on 
referral to us but, so this is clear, I think that the account was suitable for Miss H.
In response to the investigators opinion Mrs H has referred to having had eight years of 
poor customer service. But not providing the tax exemption form in 2011 is one event and 
does not mean there was then eight years of poor customer service. 
Nationwide has accepted it is responsible for Mrs H not being provided with the tax 
exemption form in 2011, and as a result of this Miss H has paid a total of £15.64 in tax which 
she shouldnt have paid. Some distress will have been caused when she became aware tax 
had been deducted which shouldnt have been. 
In addition, Nationwide didnt respond to the initial letter of 26 July 2019 and then provided 
the wrong information in the subsequent telephone calls which I think will also have created 
some distress and inconvenience.
As a result of what Nationwide got wrong Miss H has incurred a very small tax charge, two 
letters were sent, and a few telephone calls were made. Miss H will also have to contact 
HMRC to get back the £15.63 tax that was deducted if she wants this. 
I think the amount that Nationwide offered for the limited amount of distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and I can 
see no basis for awarding more than this.
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society got things wrong and didnt provide the service it shouldve 
done. An award of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused as offered by it is 
reasonable. If this has not yet been paid it has to pay this now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman