DRN-2607037
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax decided to close her accounts 
during the pandemic.
What happened
Miss B held a current and savings account with Halifax. In January 2020, Miss B applied for 
an overdraft and Halifax declined it. Miss B requested subsequent overdrafts with smaller 
credit limits, but all of the applications were declined. Miss B spent a long time on the phone 
with Halifax while going through the applications and subsequently made a complaint.
Halifax reviewed Miss Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As part of their response to Miss B, 
they also gave her 60 days notice to close her accounts. In Halifaxs response, the closure 
date of the accounts was set as 18 March 2020. However, due to Miss Bs circumstances, 
and the restraints of the pandemic, Halifax allowed Miss Bs accounts to stay open until 10 
September 2020. Halifax explained they did this to allow Miss B the relevant time to open 
another account with an alternative bank.
Miss B hasnt been able to open an alternative account and therefore is facing difficulties 
with receiving some of her money, including her benefit payments.
Miss B remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. She was unhappy 
about:
The time she spent on the phone while applying for an overdraft.
Halifax closing her account during a pandemic and not being able to open an account 
with another bank.
Her benefit payments being paid to her almost a week after Halifax sent them back to 
the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) after her account had been closed.
The investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. In summary, she said;
Halifax had agreed to look into the call costs charged to Miss B while on the phone 
regarding her overdraft if she provides them with an itemised bill.
Halifax were entitled to close Miss Bs accounts and did so in line with their terms 
and conditions and she was satisfied Halifax took Miss Bs circumstances into 
account by extending the closure from March to September.
Miss Bs difficulties with opening a new account isnt the fault of Halifax.
Miss Bs benefit payments were paid to her account after it had closed so the 
payment automatically bounced back to DWP. Therefore, it wasnt in Halifaxs control 
as to when Miss B then received the payment.
So, overall, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint and didnt think Halifax needed to do 
anything differently.
Miss B let us know through her representative that she wanted an ombudsman to consider 
things. She said that while she understands the view taken, she doesnt feel her disabilities 
have been fully understood or appreciated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Halifax need to do anything differently. I know this will come as 
a disappointment to Miss B so Ive explained the reasons for my decision further below.
Time spent on the phone
Miss B has expressed concerns about the time she spent on the phone when trying to apply 
for an overdraft with Halifax. I dont doubt spending a long time on the phone would have 
been frustrating, however I have to consider it was Miss Bs choice to apply for the overdraft 
initially and then subsequently ask for further applications for different amounts following the 
decline. Of course, each application would have taken time, and while Ive not been able to 
listen to the phone calls in question, there hasnt been any dispute of the service received 
during the phone calls. 
Ive also considered that Halifax have offered to review the charges if Miss B provides them 
with an itemised bill. This isnt something Id expect Halifax to do in the circumstances, but 
Im pleased to see they have offered this to Miss B. I dont consider Halifax need to do 
anything differently in regard to the time Miss B spent on the phone calls regarding her 
overdraft.
Closing Miss Bs account
The investigator helpfully explained that Halifaxs terms and conditions say they can close an 
account for any reason, as long as they give two months notice in writing. Ive reviewed the 
letter sent to Miss B and Im satisfied Halifax did give her this notice.
Ive also considered that while Miss Bs accounts were due to close in March 2020, Halifax 
didnt actually close them until much later  in September 2020. Miss B is a vulnerable 
individual with health circumstances which make her specifically vulnerable during the 
current pandemic. Because of this, Miss B explained to Halifax on a number of occasions 
that she wasnt able to leave her house and therefore wouldnt be able to visit a bank to 
open a new account. And as Miss B is also partially sighted, its unlikely shed want to apply 
for a new account online. I appreciate Miss B doesnt think Halifax have taken her 
circumstances into account or understood her disabilities fully but Im sorry to say I disagree. 
Halifax arent required to move away from their processes but there are times when wed 
expect them to do so. I think this is an example of one of those times. Miss B is a vulnerable 
individual who found herself in a position which meant she wouldnt have a bank account. 
And due to the current pandemic and unprecedented times, she struggled to be able to take 
the necessary action to arrange an alternative account for her finances. Halifax took this into 
consideration and extended the account closure to allow a further six months. I recognise 
Miss B says she still hasnt been able to open an account  but the reason she has given our 
service is because of an issue with her address  not her vulnerabilities. Therefore, I cant 
fairly hold Halifax responsible for this. 
And nonetheless, Halifax are only required to give two months notice. But because of Miss 
Bs circumstances they gave eight months notice. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to say 
Halifax havent been reasonable in their actions. Its up to Halifax who they have as their 
customers and theyve exercised their commercial right to end their relationship with Miss B. 
Based on the circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider theyve acted unreasonably 
by doing that. 
Receipt of benefit paymentsMiss Bs benefit payments were sent to her Halifax account after it had closed. As the 
account was closed, the payment wasnt accepted and therefore it automatically bounced 
back to DWP. Miss B said the payment bounced back from Halifax on 21 September 2020 
and she didnt receive her benefit payments until 29 September 2020. This must have been 
a really worrying and difficult time for Miss B and I dont doubt this would have caused her 
distress. But Miss B knew her Halifax account was closing and therefore its her 
responsibility to make the necessary arrangements with DWP about how to receive her 
payments. Im pleased to hear Miss B did get her benefit payments eventually  and that 
shes found a way to receive them going forward despite not having another account. I can 
only ask Halifax to put things right if I think they caused the error in the first place  and I 
dont think they did.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Miss B feels about whats happened. So, I realise shell be 
disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
Halifax have acted unreasonably or treated Miss B unfairly when they closed her accounts. 
So, Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman