DRN-2574286
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C (or the complainants) say Canaccord Genuity Wealth Limited (Canaccord) 
recommended unsuitable investments in CATCo Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Limited 
(CATCo) and that their dedicated adviser did not provide the requisite monitoring service. 
What happened
The complainants are return clients of Canaccord, they transferred most of their portfolio 
away from the firm in 2013 and the portfolio relevant to their present complaint is the one 
they transferred back to Canaccord in 2017. At the time, their agreed risk profile was set at 
Canaccords level 4 and though the contracted service basis was advisory only  not 
managed/discretionary  the complainants say their adviser agreed to provide ongoing 
monitoring of their portfolio and of its compliance with their risk profile. They made advised 
purchases of CATCo Ordinary shares in November 2017 and of CATCo C shares in 
February 2018. 
They say Canaccords recommendations of these purchases were unsuitable because these 
investments were too risky for them; they had no prior knowledge of the reinsurance sector 
in which CATCo operates and information about that sector (and the investments) was not 
given to them in the course of the recommendations; they were misled to believe the fund 
was a consortium of insurance investments but instead it is based on a single company; too 
much of their money was invested in this way (in a single company); and they were also  
misled to believe the C shares were ringfenced from, and a way to offset, losses related to 
the ordinary shares.
The complainants also say Canaccords record of their risk profile and investment 
knowledge was altered without prior notice or consultation, that it misled them to expect an 
ongoing investment monitoring service that it did not deliver and that it possibly benefitted 
from making, or had an incentive to make, the recommendations.
Canaccord disputes the suggestion that it benefitted from the recommendations. It also says 
mainly as follows:
Mr C was a client of its predecessor firm since 2008 and prior to that he had 14 
years experience in advised and discretionary managed stock market/equity heavy 
investments; he has a total of around 25 years such experience (mainly in advised 
investments); initially he engaged a discretionary service  from the predecessor firm 
and then he changed unto the advisory service; prior to moving the majority of the 
portfolio away in 2013 his risk profile was at level 6 (the second highest risk level); 
upon the transfer (in) of the portfolio in 2017 this was lowered to level 4 and he was 
recorded as having ample capacity for loss because he had a  significant asset 
base and very modest requirements ; at the time, both sides agreed an advisory 
service basis and regular quarterly meetings with the dedicated adviser; that was the 
service delivered by Canaccord; between January 2017 and the complaint in 
February 2019, nine meetings with the adviser took place (including four review 
meetings, a meeting with compliance just before the complaint and other meetings to 
discuss investments); this was an exceptional level of ongoing access to the adviser, 
the meetings usually took between two to three hours, investment advice was given 
and discussed, the portfolio was reviewed and documentary information was always 
offered to Mr C, which he usually declined as he preferred to travel light.
An important section of the terms agreed by both sides  section 1 on page 26 of the 
terms  sets out a summary of the service as follows: You will receive investment 
recommendations from us that we have reasonably assessed are suitable for you 
taking into account your knowledge and experience of investing, attitude to risk, 
financial circumstances, investment objectives, time horizon and liquidity needs, but 
the decision to invest in, hold or dispose of any investment will be your own. We shall 
only advise you in relation to particular investments as individual transactions; 
however we shall consider the suitability of such transactions in the context of your 
portfolio as a whole. In particular, when considering the merits of an individual 
transaction, we will consider how the risk of that transaction contributes to the overall 
risk of the portfolio (on the basis of the weighted risk average of the portfolio) rather 
than considering the risk attributed to a particular investment in isolation. For the 
avoidance of doubt, CGWL is not acting for you in an investment management 
capacity and shall be under no obligation to have regard to or be responsible for 
advising you in relation to the mix or strategy or otherwise in relation to your portfolio 
of investments or any segments of that portfolio. Advice will only be given on 
investments within our area of expertise and we will notify you in the event that the 
advice requested is in a field that falls outside our specialisation." 
It conducted its due diligence on the CATCo fund [and presented a summary of this 
within its complaint final response], including monitoring its performance for a few 
years before beginning to invest in it in 2012; having its shares subjected to external 
risk assessments; meeting with the funds management in October 2017 and June 
2018; and establishing that whilst the ordinary shares were exposed to its 
reinsurance business risks underwritten between 2015 and 2017 (and 1/3 of such 
exposure for 2018) the C shares were ringfenced from the 2015 to 2017 exposure 
and they concerned only risks underwritten in 2018.
Recommendation of the ordinary shares in November 2017 followed from detailed 
discussions between both parties in the previous month; 4% of the complainants 
joint portfolio was allocated to this investment; in the context of diversifying their 
portfolio as a whole, given their investor profile and given Mr Cs depth of investment 
knowledge and experience it considers this recommendation suitable; by February 
2018 the value of the shares had dropped by around 35% and further discussions 
between the parties had taken place; recommendation of the C shares, on the same 
grounds as before and in the context of their ringfenced characteristics, was made 
during this period; in response, Mr C waited and took time to consider, before the 
investment in the C shares was actually made (based on an allocation of around 2% 
of the joint portfolio); and thereafter, the investments were regularly discussed 
between the parties through 2018 and up to the complaint in 2019.
The complainants have the following main views on some of the points made by Canaccord:
History prior to the transfer of their portfolio to Canaccord in 2017 is irrelevant. [In 
response, Canaccord disagrees.]
Canaccords claim that suitability was considered in the context of their portfolio as a 
whole conflicts with content in the portfolio reports which says we do not assess the 
investments held for suitability and the ongoing monitoring arrangement agreed with 
it is also relevant to this point. [In response, Canaccord disagrees, it says the advisory service is what the complainants wanted and received, and that it had no 
obligation to provide ongoing monitoring in that service.]
Mr C disputes that investment related documentation  other than portfolio printouts 
 was made available to him during his meetings with the adviser. [In response, 
Canaccord maintains that investment documentation was offered to Mr C.]
Canaccord has failed to meet requests for evidence of the external risk assessments 
(for the CATCo fund) it claims to have arranged. [In response, Canaccord says the 
assessments were not intended to produce individualised reports.]
Canaccords reference to Mr C having extensive investment knowledge and 
experience conflicts with the fact that its portfolio reports up to July 2018 recorded his 
(or the joint) profile as having a low level of investment knowledge. [In response, 
Canaccord says its system changes around March 2018 defaulted the investment 
knowledge profile to low, which first appeared in this month, and that by September 
2018 this had been corrected to high.]
The size of the overall portfolio value does not justify the abnormally high 
investments made in the fund. [In response, Canaccord says the size of the 
investments were proportionate to the overall size of the portfolio.]
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. 
In the main, she considered that there was no obligation upon Canaccord to provide ongoing 
monitoring or management of the portfolio and the adviser was not obliged to make the 
arrangement for meetings that he made; that its terms of business confirmed it assessed 
suitability of investments in the context of the relevant portfolio as a whole; that the CATCo 
fund was of a higher risk level but it was suitable in the context of the portfolio and, based on 
evidence of past portfolio reports, it was an alternative fund like other alternative investments 
the complainants had previously made; that the level 4 risk profile was based on a portfolio 
model that allowed for up to 30% in diversified alternative investments like the CATCo fund; 
that the total allocation of 6% (of the portfolio) towards the fund did not breach this limit and 
whilst it was concentrated in a single company there is evidence of other comparable size 
allocations in the portfolio that had previously been concentrated in a single company; that 
the C shares were accurately described as ringfenced; that the complainants were treated 
as retail clients and the recorded experience and knowledge ratings did not change that, 
instead the ratings were for Canaccords internal use; that it has explained the changes in 
the ratings and the terms of business do not say they had to be agreed by the complainants; 
and that the complainants reference to how Canaccord treated their complaint wont be 
addressed as complaint handling is not a regulated activity. 
The complainants disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Submissions were received from their representative, which mainly said the investigator was 
wrong not to give due and primary weight to the argument that the CATCo fund breached 
the complainants risk profile, as an isolated investment and as a component of their 
portfolio; and that Canaccord misrepresented comments made by Mr C, his investment 
experience and other key aspects of the complaint.
The representative referred to its insurance industry experts opinion on CATCo. The opinion 
mainly said that on a stand alone basis  investments in funds like CATCo are  high 
risk investments but as part of a wider portfolio it is often said that because insurance risk is 
uncorrelated with other investment risks they act as a diversifier increasing total return. The 
opinion also said, overall, such investments are risky.The representative also referred to its financial industry regulatory experts opinion on the 
complaint. The opinion mainly said that whilst a cautious investor can include a small 
percentage of diversified higher risk investments in a portfolio, investment of 6% into a single 
high risk fund was neither a small percentage nor a diversified investment; that investment in 
the fund is not comparable to the complainants having invested up to 5% of the portfolio in a 
single FTSE company, because CATCo was/is an offshore fund and not a FTSE company; 
that documentation for the fund breached the requirement for legibility in the regulators 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook rules (at COBS 4.5.2R (5)); and that Canaccord was also 
in breach of COBS 9.4.7R (3) because its suitability report did not explain the possible 
disadvantages of investment in the fund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I do not 
uphold this complaint, I do not consider that the CATCo funds were unsuitable for the 
complainants and I do not consider that there was a service failing on Canaccords part.
Canaccords complaint handling
I echo the investigators finding on this issue. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity 
and, in terms of investments, this services jurisdiction and remit is to address complaints 
about regulated activities (and those ancillary to such activities). I do not suggest that this 
service does not address matters in which a firm is alleged to have breached the regulators 
structure for complaints. We can do so, but we usually do that in addressing our jurisdiction 
in a complaint. Not in addressing the merits of a complaint, as is the present task.
Canaccord benefitting from recommending the CATCo fund
I note the complainants allegation, or suspicion, in this respect. As stated above, Canaccord 
denies it. I have not seen evidence of any arrangement in which Canaccord was incentivised 
to recommend the CATCo fund to the complainants or in which it received a benefit from 
such an arrangement.
This subsection provides an opportunity to address the opinion that the CATCo 
documentation breached COBS 4.5.2R (5). Canaccord was not the fund provider or 
operator, it does not appear to have been the author of said documentation and I have not 
seen evidence of a link between it and CATCo to suggest any indirect or shared 
responsibility for the documentation. I do not consider this relevant to the complaint.
Ringfencing of the CATCo C shares
The complainants say they were misled about this. I do not consider that the balance of 
evidence supports their allegation. Documentation on the fund that has been shared with us 
refers to the arrangement to expose these shares to risks underwritten in 2018 and not to 
those underwritten in previous years. Available evidence is that the explanation given to     
Mr C (or the complainants) at the time of the investment was consistent with this.
Canaccords service to the complainants
Documentary evidence supports Canaccords position on this issue. The service that the 
complainants expressly contracted for was the advisory based service  not the discretionary management service. Whilst the latter included ongoing monitoring and 
management of a clients portfolio and investments, the former did not. I have not seen 
evidence that Canaccord contracted  and/or was obliged  to provide ongoing investment 
management (inclusive of the ongoing investment monitoring expected within such 
management) to the complainants.
It is not in dispute that the adviser agreed to meet Mr C (or the complainants) on a quarterly 
basis. Evidence of the total number of meetings held before the complainants made their 
complaint also appears to be beyond dispute. That evidence shows that eight meetings 
(excluding the compliance related meeting shortly before the complaint) were held between 
the adviser and Mr C in a period of around two years. These were investment related 
meetings and portfolio review meetings. I consider them a basis upon which to conclude that 
the adviser (and Canaccord) upheld the agreement with Mr C on meetings. 
Both sides have described the meetings differently. Canaccord has referred to focused 
investment/portfolio meetings lasting over an hour or two each time and followed by lunch, in 
which part business and part informal (non-business) discussions happened. Mr C says the 
meetings were short, he agrees that they were followed by lunch, but he says mainly or only 
informal (non-business) discussions happened during lunch. I have not seen meaningful 
evidence of Mr C complaining in the aftermaths of the meetings that they were unduly short 
or that they were rushed or that matters in need of discussion were omitted due to lack of 
time or about anything that stands in dispute with Canaccords account of lengthy meetings. 
On balance, I consider Canaccords account to be reliable. I also consider it more likely (than 
not) that the lunches which took place after the meetings would have featured a mixture of 
business and non-business discussions  as can be common in such post-meeting lunches. 
Overall, and for the above reasons, I am persuaded that the complainants received nothing 
short of the service level (and service components) they were entitled to receive from 
Canaccord. I have focused on meetings because they have been highlighted within the 
complaint. However, I should also note available evidence of many telephone calls that took 
place between the parties prior to the complaint. Between those telephone calls and the 
meetings, I consider it more likely (than not)  or at least arguable  that the complainants 
might have ended up with a monitoring and perhaps even a quasi-management service from 
Canaccord that they neither paid for nor were entitled to. I do not find grounds to uphold their 
claim that Canaccord did not deliver the service (or monitoring service) they were entitled to.
The CATCo investments
First, I address points that have been made about Canaccords approach towards the 
assessment of suitability of the investments, and its documentation of that assessment. One 
of the opinions mentioned above made a point about this and about absent information 
about the potential disadvantages of the investments. 
The investigator dedicated a part of her enquiries into this. Canaccord appeared to 
understand why the investigator queried its approach of attaching only a brief summary of 
suitability related information alongside the contract notes for the investments and why she 
considered that lacking in detail.  It explained that this approach was based on having 
primary investor profile and suitability assessment documentation on record for the 
complainants, having that reviewed regularly, making that transparent to the complainants 
by including its summary in the quarterly portfolio statements they received, having that 
applied to the recommendations it made and then finding it sufficient to attach a summary of 
it to the investment contract notes. 
Available evidence suggests that this account is reliable. Whilst the approach seems 
different from what could be regarded as a common approach in which each recommendation made by a firm is captured in a detailed suitability (or reasons why) 
letter/report, on balance I consider that Canaccords process, overall, nevertheless worked 
towards the same outcome of assessing suitability  and making that assessment available 
to the clients. 
It also explained that it found value in the extensive meetings it had with its clients in which 
detailed discussions about recommendations (including suitability) were held. Based on the 
balance of all available evidence, I consider this to be reliable too and I am persuaded that 
the potential advantages and disadvantages of the CATCo investments were properly 
discussed, with advice, during the meetings (and any related telephone calls) the adviser 
had with Mr C. I do not dismiss the allegation, in the opinion mentioned above, of a breach of 
COBS 9.4.7R (3). The points I make are that, in real terms, I consider that Canaccord 
properly assessed suitability for the complainants investments and that, also in real terms, 
the allegation is somewhat redundant given my finding that the potential advantages and 
disadvantages of the CATCo investments were properly discussed with Mr C.
It does not appear to be in dispute that the CATCo fund was a high-risk alternative 
investment. I accept this and, based on evidence of the events (and documents) leading to 
the investments, I find that this was not hidden from or misrepresented to the complainants 
at the outset. In addition, and for example, their second investment in the fund, made around 
three months after the first, took place amid their first investment incurring a 35% loss. In 
such circumstances, I consider it implausible that they would not have known of the high 
risks of investing in the fund.
I consider that the insurance industry opinion presented in support of the complainants case 
gives a view that, instead, does more to support Canaccords position. The opinions 
description, as quoted above, is very similar  if not almost identical  to that which 
Canaccord has provided. Both present a credible basis to assess the fund, in terms of risks, 
within a wider portfolio and not necessarily in isolation. They also suggest doing so mindful 
of the special insurance business characteristics which are distinct from those of the other 
components of a portfolio and which create an inherent diversification effect within a 
portfolio. 
I accept that assessment of the fund  its risk profile and its suitability for the complainants  
was intended by Canaccord to be done in the above context. The agreed terms of business 
for its advisory service expressly supported that approach. As quoted earlier above, those 
terms included the following  We shall only advise you in relation to particular investments 
as individual transactions; however we shall consider the suitability of such transactions in 
the context of your portfolio as a whole. In particular, when considering the merits of an 
individual transaction, we will consider how the risk of that transaction contributes to the 
overall risk of the portfolio (on the basis of the weighted risk average of the portfolio) rather 
than considering the risk attributed to a particular investment in isolation.
I consider that the above quote was sufficiently clear and that it would have informed the 
complainants about how investment suitability (for them) would be assessed. Their 
agreement with Canaccords terms of service is ground on which to conclude they also 
agreed with this method of assessing suitability.
In terms of the complainants profile for investments, I am not persuaded that the debate that 
has taken place over their attitude to risk ranking was necessary. There does not appear to 
be a dispute in using Canaccords rating of 4 for the purpose of determining this complaint. I 
appreciate that the complainants are unhappy about other matters related to the ratings, but 
the rating relevant at the time of the investments is what is also relevant to considering 
whether (or not) the fund was suitable for them. Evidence confirms that the 4 rating allowed for up to 30% of alternative investments in the 
complainants portfolio. The total allocation of around 6% of their portfolio to the CATCo fund 
did not have the result of breaching that limit. I also have not seen evidence that their wider 
portfolio was unbalanced or unbalanced in a way that made the 6% allocation unsuitable. 
There is evidence to show that the complainants had the financial capacity to undertake the 
investments in the fund and the capacity for loss in those investments. As I noted above, 
both Canaccord and the complainants insurance industry expert have given essentially the 
same diversification rationale for including the CATCo fund in the portfolio. Overall and on 
balance, I consider that the investments did not mismatch the complainants joint investor 
profile and did not mismatch (or disrupt) their portfolio.
This service would not normally consider matters of performance in isolation  where there 
are no performance guarantees  but in the present case, it might be helpful to note that 
Canaccord has provided a well-reasoned explanation on the problems faced by the fund 
and, as a result, the complainants investments. In a nutshell, unpredictable and unpredicted 
climate related catastrophes around the world inevitably had an impact on the reinsurance 
business that the fund was exposed to. It would appear that, but for those events, the 
investments could have performed differently. Overall, it does not appear that such an 
outcome(s) was or should have been foreseeable to Canaccord at the point of the first 
investment, and as the second investment was ringfenced from events that affected the first 
the same would be applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman