DRN-4215874
The complaint
Mr P complains about the customer service he received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) after a third-party claimed he was responsible for damaging their car.
What happened
In October 2022, another driver accused Mr P of reversing into his car and damaging it. Mr P 
says his car didnt make contact with the other vehicle. He was concerned the third-party 
driver might make a fraudulent claim for pre-existing damage. So, Mr P called LV to let it 
know what had happened. He told LV he would be leaving the country a week later, so he 
wouldnt be available on his mobile phone, but it could contact him by email. 
In February 2023, Mr P received his renewal documents from LV and found that his premium 
had increased by around 50%. Mr P had difficulty contacting LV to resolve the matter. He 
says he couldnt log on to his account, the live chat wasnt working, and he received generic 
responses to his emails. Mr P says he had to put his SIM back into his UK mobile phone to 
call LV from abroad and this resulted in an expensive phone bill.
Mr P was told that his premium had increased because there was an open claim on the 
policy. LV said it had sent him a text message with a link for him to upload images to show 
his vehicle hadnt caused any damage. Mr P says he didnt receive the text message. He 
was unhappy that LV hadnt communicated with him by email, as hed requested before he 
went away. 
After Mr P raised a complaint with LV, it offered him a total of £150 compensation for 
customer service issues. It also told Mr P that the claim had been closed and any overpaid 
premiums would be refunded back to him.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
thought the £150 LV had already offered Mr P was fair compensation for the service issues 
hed experienced. But she thought LV should also reimburse Mr P for the costs of his calls 
and data used (totalling £54.02).
LV disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said it had offered Mr P £100 for the 
problems hed had getting to speak to someone and failed call backs. Mr P had provided a 
screen print of call costs for approximately £99 but it wasnt itemised. LV had made a further 
gesture of £50 for call costs. It said it maintained that £100 for inconvenience plus £50 for 
call and data costs was reasonable. 
Mr P said hed received further information from his mobile phone provider, which differed 
from what it had previously given him. He said there were out of plan charges hed like to 
claim for. He said he was looking for LV to pay him £150 plus costs of £90.02.
As both parties have disagreed with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
LV says £100 of its offer was to compensate Mr P for the inconvenience he experienced 
because of customer service issues, and this was higher because he was abroad. It says the 
other £50 it had offered Mr P was for his phone calls. As this is around the amount our 
investigator recommended LV pay Mr P, it feels that a total of £150 is reasonable. 
In its response to our investigators outcome, LV said the £100 was offered for the problems 
Mr P had getting to speak to someone and failed call backs. It doesnt appear to have 
recognised the worry and frustration Mr P experienced from not being kept informed about 
the third-party claim.
In LVs notes from the date Mr P reported the alleged incident it says: PH has images if we 
request them I have updated details on file PH said he is away from the 26/10/22 so wont 
be available on the mobile but we can contact PH by email advised claim is closed but if we 
need to contact PH we can.
Despite this, LV has said the request to upload images was sent to Mr P via text message in 
November 2022. This meant that Mr P wasnt aware of the open claim until he received the 
renewal documents in February 2023. So, I dont think Mr P was expecting such a high 
increase in his premiums, and he was caused some unnecessary distress.
Our investigator has shared the itemised mobile phone bills Mr P has provided us with LV 
and has explained why she thinks it would be fair for it to reimburse him a total of £54.02. I 
appreciate Mr P feels that LV should reimburse him a total of £90.02 because of out of plan 
charges. However, our investigator has explained why she doesnt think LV is responsible 
for these. 
Having considered the overall impact of LVs actions on Mr P, I think £150 is a fair amount to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced. And I think £54.02 is 
reasonable compensation for his financial loss. So, I think LV should pay this as well.
Putting things right
LV should pay Mr P:
£54.02 for his call and data costs and
£150 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman