DRN-2934124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their building insurance 
claim, and the cash settlement it offered.
What happened
A water leak originating from their neighbours property caused damage to Mr and Mrs Qs 
bathroom and kitchen. They made a claim to Aviva. The company offered a cash settlement 
for £10,442.87 (excluding VAT). Mr and Mrs Q say it will cost more than this to carry out the 
repairs.
Mr and Mrs Q say the policy covers them for £20,000 in alternative accommodation and 
£50,000 for contents. But Aviva is only prepared to provide alternative accommodation for 
Mr Q, not the rest of his family. 
Aviva says the settlement offer is based on what it would cost for it to repair the damages 
covered by Mr and Mrs Qs policy. It says the property will be habitable during the repair 
works. And that accommodation was required for Mr Q because he works nights and would 
otherwise be disturbed when trying to sleep during the day. 
Mr and Mrs Q dont think its reasonable to expect the rest of the household to live in the 
property when the work is carried out. They think covid restrictions also mean they shouldnt 
be in the house during the repairs.  
Our investigator looked into the matter and decided to uphold the complaint. She felt the 
settlement offer did fairly cover the cost of repairs for damage caused by the leak. She also 
thought it was fair that the company offered to pay accommodation costs for Mr Q and a 
disturbance allowance for the rest of the household. 
The investigator decided the cost of a plumber, if needed to ensure a water supply was 
available to the alternative bathroom, should be included in the settlement. Having raised 
this with Aviva it agreed with the investigator to covering this cost. However, this was not 
factored into Avivas offer prior to the complaint being referred to this service.  
Mr and Mrs Q were not satisfied with this outcome and so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Qs complaint. However, I expect they 
will be disappointed as I have decided not to add to the award set out by our investigator. Let 
me explain. 
Cash offer and settlement value
Aviva sent a surveyor to assess the work needed to repair the damaged bathroom and 
kitchen. It produced a schedule of works setting out the scope of these repairs. I note that 
initially Aviva considered carrying out the repairs itself. However, following discussions with 
Mr and Mrs Q it felt the most appropriate way forward was to provide a cash settlement. 
Mr and Mrs Q have provided numerous quotes for the work. They explain the repair costs 
come to more than the cash settlement Aviva has offered.
I have reviewed the quotes and correspondence Mr and Mrs Q have supplied. I note the 
companys view is that the work they intended carrying out involved making changes to the 
layout. This was not a like for like replacement or repair of the existing kitchen and 
bathroom. 
Aviva says the original kitchen had freestanding appliances whereas Mr and Mrs Q supplied 
a design for a fully fitted kitchen. Aviva says they confirmed some changes had been made 
to the property whilst the claims process was ongoing. It also says the pre-claim kitchen had 
a back door, but the new plan replaces this with a window with units and worktops beneath.
I have considered the schedule of works Aviva produced. The schedule was based on 
restoring the kitchen and bathroom to the same designs as before. The kitchen plans include 
the original backdoor, as opposed to the window and further units as described above. It 
shows appliances and other undamaged items are to be removed and re-fixed. Kitchen unit 
carcases to be removed and replaced. Damaged boarding and tiles to be removed and 
replaced with new. Costings for painting are also included.   
Aviva is expected to repair or replace the parts of the property, covered by the policy, which 
were damaged as a result of the water leak. However, it is clear Mr and Mrs Q wanted to 
make changes to the kitchen. Its reasonable to conclude the quotes supplied by Mr and Mrs 
Q and the costing confirmed by Aviva, differ, to some extent, because of the difference in the 
scope of the work.
Aviva says it based its settlement figure on the rates it pays its contractors to carry out work. 
This is lower than the quotes Mr and Mrs Q obtained. However, this does not demonstrate 
the companys settlement offer is unreasonable, which was confirmed as £10,442.87 
excluding VAT.
Based on the information I have seen I am not persuaded that Aviva has acted unfairly in the 
scope of the repairs it has described, or in the settlement figure it based on this assessment.
Turning to the point about a settlement offer in place of carrying out repair works. This option 
is set out in the policy terms, under Settling Claims it says:
We can choose to settle(r) your claim by: replacing, reinstating, repairing or payment. 
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we are able to replace property but we agree to make a cash 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
Aviva decided a cash settlement was the best option. 
I note Mr and Mrs Q did initially request that if repairs were carried out by Aviva, they would 
like to use their own choice of tiler. Aviva didnt accept this. It confirmed either its contractors 
were used for all the work, or the alternative was a cash settlement. Mr and Mrs Q agreed to 
Aviva carrying out the work, but with the condition their tiler would inspect the work and the 
tiles would be removed if not up to standard.  Aviva did not accept this condition and maintained a cash settlement was the appropriate 
option.  
I have thought about whether Aviva was reasonable to insist on its contractors to be used 
exclusively, or for a cash settlement to be provided. 
As above, a cash settlement can be agreed under the terms of the policy. It is clear Mr and 
Mrs Q intended making changes to the kitchen. I note Avivas comments that in these 
circumstances, where a lot of the work being done is not covered within the claim, it is not 
suitable for its contractors to do the work. Combined with Mr and Mrs Qs desire to use their 
own choice of tiler, it felt the decision to settle on a cash payment was the best option. 
For the reasons it has given I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in deciding to offer a 
settlement payment in these circumstances. Its role is to put Mr and Mrs Q back in the 
position they would be had the leak not occurred. As they want to make changes to the 
kitchen and would prefer to use their own choice of contractors, it seems reasonable to offer 
a settlement that can be put toward the work Mr and Mrs Q want to carry out. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs Q say it wasnt fair of Aviva to only consider alternative accommodation for Mr 
Q. They say the policy allows for cover up to £20,000 for this purpose and the rest of the 
household should have been considered in this. 
Avivas contact records show Mr Q queried whether his family would be expected to wear 
high visibility jackets, hard hats and steel toe capped boots during the works. By this I 
understand he was concerned the work would make it difficult for his family to remain in the 
property. 
Mr and Mrs Q also raised concerns that covid restrictions mean the family should not remain 
in the home when workmen were there. The policy says, ..well pay: reasonable 
accommodation expenses for all insured persons and their domestic animals up to the limit 
shown in your schedule until the home is ready to live in. 
Aviva says Mr and Mrs Qs home would be habitable whilst work was ongoing, so it did not 
think it necessary for alternative accommodation to be provided. Mr Q says his job requires 
him to work night shifts. This meant he wouldnt be able to sleep in the day because of the 
noise. Aviva reconsidered its position when asked to do so by our investigator. Because of  
Mr Qs situation it agreed to pay for alternative accommodation for him.
The company had also agreed to pay a disturbance allowance for the period it had estimated 
the work would take to complete. This was calculated at £50 per day (£10 per person), over 
19 days. So, a payment of £950 was agreed. 
I cant see that Aviva acted unfairly in not paying for alternative accommodation for the entire 
household. An alternative bathroom was to be available whilst works were completed. Some 
disruption and inconvenience would be felt by those living in the property. However, I dont 
think it has been shown that the rest of the household couldnt reasonably continue to live 
there while work was carried out. 
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Qs concerns that covid restrictions should mean all the 
household should be offered alternative accommodation. I have not seen evidence that 
shows the government covid regulations support this view. I did ask Lloyds for its comments 
on this point. It said its contractors will always comply with relevant regulations when work is 
carried out. Considering all this, I think Avivas subsequent decision to offer alternative accommodation 
for Mr Q, in addition to a disturbance allowance, is fair in the circumstances. However, the 
alternative accommodation was not agreed prior to the complaint being brought to this 
service. This means I will uphold this aspect of the complaint.  
Alternative bathroom  
The alternative bathroom is expected to be used whilst work is carried out to the damaged 
room. But Mr and Mrs Q say the water feed comes from the damaged bathroom, which will 
cause problems, and this hadnt been considered. 
Our investigator queried this point with Aviva. In its response it says a plumber would be 
able to provide a water feed to the bathroom. However, this work had not been included in 
the cash settlement. 
Avivas view is that it wouldnt take long for a plumber to make sure a water supply was 
connected to the alternative bathroom. It agreed to provide a payment equivalent to half a 
days work for a plumber to do this, if this became necessary. 
Its not entirely clear if this work will be required. However, based on what I have seen, 
Avivas estimate seems reasonable. I think it is fair that the company pays for this work. And 
that it should provide a payment up to a maximum of £225, if this proves necessary.   
Finally, Mr and Mrs Q say that Aviva should be pursuing the third party responsible for the 
leak. Aviva has said that its solicitors are looking at whether costs can be recovered from a 
third party, although it thinks this is unlikely. However, it says this has no bearing on the 
claim Mr and Mrs Q have made under their policy. 
Aviva explains the claim will always be for accidental damage regardless of who is at fault. 
Having considered their point, I dont see that Avivas actions, in relation to the third-party, 
impact on Mr and Mrs Qs claim. 
In considering all this, and for the reasons given in my decision, I think Aviva has fairly relied 
on the terms of the policy in making its settlement offer for £10,442.87. This includes the 
disturbance allowance for £950. However, Aviva should also pay for alternative 
accommodation as allowed under the policy terms for Mr Q. 
Its also fair that Aviva pays up to £225 for a plumber to ensure the water supply is 
connected to the alternative bathroom during the repair works. This was agreed by the 
company during our investigation, but as this wasnt agreed prior to the complaint referral to 
this service, its necessary for me to include this here.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Qs complaint and 
Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay for alternative accommodation for Mr Q during the period of works, in line with 
the policy terms.
pay Mr and Mrs Q up to £225 for a plumber to connect a temporary water supply to 
the alternative bathroom, if shown to be necessary. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman