DRN-3779272
The complaint
Miss D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave her a 
credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 28 January 2019, Miss Ds credit card was opened by Capital One with an initial credit 
limit of £1,500. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Miss D complained to Capital One to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss D didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ds complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss D provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Miss Ds 
name to assess Miss Ds level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Capital One 
decided to agree to the credit limit of £1,500. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the lending decision.
The Capital One checks showed that Miss D had only a modest amount of other borrowings 
compared to her declared income. And I have noted that Miss Ds credit file was very clean 
at the time of the loan application. When I say this, I mean that Miss Ds management of her 
existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. There was 
a default on the credit check but that was settled over six years prior to this application and 
there was no adverse information on the card within the previous year. So, it seemed from 
the credit file that at the point that the lending decision was made, Miss D was affording her 
existing credit. And so, Capital One were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the 
lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that Capital One had at the time 
of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching 
enquiries of Miss Ds financial situation. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Capital One at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Capital One acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Capital One provided to Miss D was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman