DRN-3086194
Complaint
Mr J says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt do enough to help him when 
he was the victim of a scam.
Background
Mr J has an account with Halifax. On 22 February 2020, he was called by someone who 
claimed to be an employee of HMRC. This person told Mr J that he was facing criminal 
charges in connection with unpaid tax. Unfortunately, Mr J wasnt talking to an employee of 
HMRC at all, but a scammer. He was threatened with a fine of £90,000 and told that his 
house was at risk.
The scammers told him that HMRC would be willing to accept £300 in order to write off this 
outstanding amount. He was told that if he discussed this offer with anyone it would be 
withdrawn, and hed be risking arrest. He was told to settle the debt using gift cards. He 
withdrew £300 in two transactions from a cash machine using his bank card. He then used 
the cash to buy gift cards at a local supermarket and read out the reference numbers over 
the phone allowing the scammer to the claim the value of those gift cards.
Shortly after hed done so, Mr J felt there was something unusual about the phone call. On 
27 February, he contacted Halifax to let it know that hed been the victim of a scam. Halifax 
investigated but said it wouldnt refund him  it said that there was nothing it could do 
because Mr J had authorised the withdrawals. Mr J was unhappy with the response he 
received from Halifax and so he referred his complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator noted that Mr J had 
authorised the withdrawal. The Investigator also said that Halifax couldnt do anything to 
assist Mr J with the recovery of funds  once hed withdrawn the cash from his account, it no 
longer had any control over what happened to it. The Investigator said Halifax needed to be 
on the lookout for suspicious or unusual account activity. However, he didnt think that this 
withdrawal ought to have attracted closer attention on the part of Halifax and so he didnt 
think it had done anything wrong in not intervening. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I dont doubt or disbelieve what Mr J has told us. He took the 
threats that were made by the scammers at face value and complied with their demands out 
of a genuine fear. He fell victim to a cruel and cynical scam, and he has my sympathy. But 
my role here is the consider whether Halifax met its obligations and whether it would be fair 
and reasonable to expect it refund Mr Js money. 
Ive considered that carefully and I dont think itd be fair and reasonable to expect Halifax to 
refund him and Ill explain why. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of that customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Halifax had an extensive range of other obligations and requirements that it 
was expected to meet. There are circumstances where a bank should, fairly and reasonably, 
carry out additional checks before processing a payment or withdrawal to help protect its 
customers from the risk of fraud or financial harm.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr J authorised the withdrawal, albeit he only did so 
because he was manipulated into thinking he needed to urgently settle a debt he owed to 
HMRC. Mr J gave Halifax a legitimate instruction which it carried out. I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for what happened to that cash after the 
withdrawal. Once it had been taken out of Mr Js account, it had no control or influence over 
what happened next.
Nonetheless, Halifax was expected to be on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic 
activity on the accounts of its customers with the aim of protecting them from the risk of 
financial harm. But in this case, it wouldnt have had any basis for treating these withdrawals 
as unusual or out of character. I can see from statement information provided by Halifax that 
one of these cash machines had been used by Mr J several times in the past and these 
withdrawals werent of such high value that they shouldve been a cause for concern. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in not 
intervening to question these withdrawals before processing them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman