DRN-1968000
 
The complaint
Mr K is complaining that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt repair the cars fuel 
gauge following a claim he made after being involved in an accident.
The complaint has been brought by Mrs P, who owns the car and is acting as a 
representative for her brother Mr K, who is the policyholder.
What happened
On 6 August 2018 Mrs P reported an accident involving her car. Mr K was driving at the time 
under a short term car-sharing insurance policy which hed taken out with Admiral. The car 
was hit from behind.
Admiral appointed its authorised repairers and they came out to take the car in for repair. On 
11 September 2018 a damage inspection report, noting front and rear damage, was 
completed by the authorised repairers and signed by Mrs P. This notes that the fuel gauge is 
stuck on and the fuel level is noted as half full, with stuck written next to it.
On 25 September the authorised repairer confirmed the car had been repaired and returned. 
On 19 October Mr K called Admiral and said that the fuel gauge and rear lights still werent 
working. Admiral contacted its authorised repairer, and they confirmed it was mentioned that 
the fuel gauge wasnt working when the car went into them, but they didnt think it was 
related to the accident as the fuel sensors are at the front of the car rather than the rear.
Mr K returned the car to the authorised repairer and the lights were fixed. They said there 
were no fault codes stored for the fuel gauge but they re-set the system and told Mr K to 
return the car to them if the problem wasnt resolved.
On 2 November Mr K called Admiral to say the fuel gauge was still broken. Admiral 
contacted the authorised repairer who sent an estimate for replacing the fuel gauge.
On 6 November Mrs P called to complain that the fuel gauge hadnt been repaired. Admiral 
spoke to its engineer who said it was highly unlikely the problem with the fuel gauge had 
been caused by the accident. He said Mrs P should get a diagnostic report from the main 
dealer to show the fuel gauge was damaged in the accident. Admiral agreed to cover the 
cost of this.
On 23 November Mrs P emailed Admiral to say a diagnostic report had been completed and 
the fuel gauge had been re-set. She said the dealer had told her it was rare for the fuel 
system to be damaged from the type of accident Mr K had been in, but to be conclusive 
theyd need to check in the engine which would cost another £189. Mrs P said the dealer 
had done a digital re-calibration and shed seen the gauge move a little so she was hopeful 
the problem had been resolved.
Admiral sent its final response letter in December 2018, saying that as it had agreed to cover 
the cost of the diagnostic report and the issue with the fuel gauge now appeared to be fixed, 
it hoped the complaint had been resolved.
Mrs P says she was heavily pregnant at the time and so didnt drive the car much. But when 
she did she noticed that there was still a problem with the fuel gauge following the 
recalibration. She says she contacted Admiral to let it know, but Admiral says it has no 
record of this.
In January 2019 Mr K (as the policyholder) brought his complaint to us, with Mrs P acting as 
his representative. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said, in summary, that because both the 
main dealer and the engineer appointed by Admiral thought it was unlikely the accident 
caused the problem with the fuel gauge, it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral not to approve 
the repair.
Mrs P replied to say she and Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view of the complaint. 
She said, in summary, that the authorised repairer had listed the fuel gauge as one of the 
things that needed to be fixed when the car was taken in for repair and they thought this 
should have been done.
Mr Ks complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision on 2 April 2020. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Let me explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mrs P told the authorised repairer that there was a problem with the 
fuel gauge when they picked up the car, and it was noted on the estimate. Ive asked Mrs P 
about the circumstances around which she discovered the fuel gauge wasnt moving as that 
would assume the car had been driven after the accident. Mrs P said that the car had been 
driven in the week between the accident and being collected for repair, and in fact had run 
out of fuel because the fuel gauge still showed as half full when the tank was empty. So, this 
is why she raised it as a problem at the point of collection.
 
The notes say that the authorised repairer told Admiral the fuel gauge was working at the 
time of the estimate as he noticed it had moved as he drove it to the garage. But I dont see 
why Mrs P would claim it wasnt working if it was. If the authorised repairer noticed it moving 
then it seems more likely that it was working intermittently but not reliably.
Ive looked at the diagnostic report from the dealer and I cant see anything on there that 
relates specifically to the fuel gauge. However, Mrs P told Admiral that the main dealer said 
that although it was rare for the fuel system to damaged by a rear hit, the only way to check 
was to dismantle the engine which would cost a further £189. So, it looks like the diagnostic 
report doesnt conclusively say whether the problem is related to the accident or not.
I appreciate that Admirals engineer said he didnt think the problem was related to the 
accident. But the problem with the fuel gauge became apparent shortly after the accident. So 
that suggests that either it was related to the accident, or it coincidentally stopped working 
for a different reason at around the same time as the accident- which doesnt seem very 
likely. I dont think Admiral has properly explained how it thinks this could happen. Admirals final response assumed that the re-calibration resolved the problem. But Mrs Ps 
told me the fuel gauge is still not working, over a year later. So Admiral has not yet got to the 
bottom of whats causing the problem so that it can be properly fixed.  And according to the 
main dealer, the only way to properly diagnose the problem is to dismantle the engine. So, I 
think this is what needs to be done.
Overall, I think it would be fair for Admiral to pay the additional cost for the main dealer to 
establish exactly what the problem is, and any further cost of repairing or replacing the fuel 
gauge or other related parts if the problem was caused by the accident. I also think by not 
agreeing to take this action earlier Admiral has caused trouble and upset to Mr K and should 
compensate him for this. 
My provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ks complaint. I thought that 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited should meet the cost of the main dealer properly 
diagnosing the problem and any further cost of resolving the problem if the main dealer 
concluded it was caused by the accident.
I thought it should also pay Mr K £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in fully 
investigating the fuel gauge problem.
I asked Admiral, and Mr K and Mrs P, to reply by 2 May 2020 with anything else they wished 
me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs P responded to my provisional decision on behalf of Mr K. She said they accepted the 
decision, while noting that it was both a front and rear collision.
Admiral also responded to my provisional decision. It offered to meet the costs of the repair 
on the assumption the work had already been done, if Mr K and Mrs P provided an invoice.
Mrs P confirmed the work hadnt yet been done, and given the lockdown situation suggested 
a cash settlement might be more convenient for both parties to allow her to get the work 
done later on. 
I put this to Admiral and it responded by sending a cheque for £339 to Mrs P. It said this was 
for the £150 trouble and upset payment, along with £189 which was the cost quoted by the 
main dealer to finally diagnose whether the fault was a result of the collision. It maintained 
that in its view the accident had not caused the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision, other than to take 
into account the cheque Admirals sent out since my provisional decision.
Admiral has partly complied with my provisional decision by paying the estimated cost of the 
main dealer properly diagnosing the problem and the trouble and upset payment, which is 
what I asked it to pay upfront. However, this doesnt cover the potential cost of resolving the 
problem if the main dealer concludes it was caused by the accident and there is more work 
needed. I understand why Mrs P and Mr K would like a cash settlement, but I dont think I can 
reasonably ask Admiral to pay any more until the further diagnostic work has been carried 
out to find out if the problem was caused by the accident.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
in addition to paying £150 trouble and upset and £189 towards the estimated cost of finally 
diagnosing the problem with the fuel gauge, Admiral Insurance Company Limited should 
meet any further cost of repairing or replacing the fuel gauge or other related parts if the 
problem was caused by the accident.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman