DRN-4160058
The complaint
Mr N complains about the amount Tesco Underwriting Limited offered him following a total 
loss claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Tesco includes its agents.
What happened
Mr N held a motor insurance policy with Tesco. When he was involved in an accident, he 
made a claim to Tesco for the damage.
Tesco deemed the car a write off and offered Mr N £3,181 minus the policy excess to settle 
his claim. It said this represented the market value of his vehicle.
Mr N wasnt happy and complained. He wasnt happy with the offer, and the fact that before 
Tescos final offer, it made him a much lower one. He also wasnt happy with the service 
provided throughout the claim.
Tesco didnt change its stance, so, Mr N brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Tescos offer was fair 
and didnt think the service provided warranted compensation.
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ns policy says the most it will pay on any claim is the market value of the vehicle. 
The policy defines the market value as The cost of replacing the car with one of 
similar age, type, specification, mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or 
damage happened. This policy term is common throughout most motor insurance 
policies.
Determining the market value of a car isnt an exact science, and I appreciate Mr N 
might not be able to purchase a like for like car following the accident. Therere so 
many factors to consider when valuing a car, that finding one for sale, with all the 
factors matching those of the car damaged in the accident is unlikely.
We take adverts into consideration, but we do so alongside a number of trade 
guides. These guides purpose is to value vehicles, and they take into account all the 
factors listed above.
Im satisfied Tescos offer of £3,181 falls within the range of these guides. And Im 
more persuaded by these guides than the adverts pointed out to us by Mr N. This is 
because the vehicles in those adverts have one or more factors different to his.
Tescos initial offers were too low, but when Mr N complained, it raised it to a suitable 
amount. Im pleased it did this, but it shouldnt have taken Mr N disputing the offer for 
Tesco to make a fair one in the first instance.
Overall, like our investigator, I dont think the service provided throughout this claim 
warrants compensation. I understand it didnt go as smoothly as Mr N would have 
liked, at it could have been better. But, it didnt fall to a level where compensation is 
warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman