DRN-2099936
The complaint
Mr B complains about the motor insurance policy he took out via Inspop.com Ltd trading as
Confused.com.
What happened
Mr B wanted to take out insurance for his car. He used Confused.com and entered 
information to generate a number of quotes. He was offered a number of policies with 
different businesses and picked the option he wanted to proceed with.
A few weeks after taking out the policy, Mr B noticed his documents showed the car to be 
valued lower than what he thought it should be. His documents showed the value of his car 
to be £52,800 but Mr B thought his car was valued at £77,000. 
Mr B contacted the company he took out the insurance with. It told him it insured him based 
on the information it received from Confused.com. It said it couldn't insure Mr B's car up to 
the full value he wanted, as the maximum value of car his underwriters insured was £75,000. 
It said if Mr B wanted to increase his cover to that amount, he'd have to pay an additional 
premium. It said his other option would be to cancel the policy and take a new one out with 
another insurer. But it said if Mr B did this, a cancellation fee would be charged. Mr B 
decided to insure his car up to the value of £75,000 and pay the additional premium.
Unhappy, Mr B complained to Confused.com. He said he entered in the value of his car to
be £77,000 and so felt it was to blame for him needing to pay an additional premium as it
must have changed the information he entered in.
At first, Confused.com said Mr B input all the data himself, so felt it wasn't responsible. But it 
later changed its stance. It said on the first two quotes Mr B made, he entered the value of 
his car, but not the registration number. But on the quote Mr B accepted, he entered in his 
registration number, which meant that some fields, including the value of the car, auto 
populated.
But it maintained it wasn't responsible for the issues Mr B was now experiencing with his 
insurer. It said it made it clear that some fields may have been auto populated, and that it 
was important that Mr B check the information was correct before continuing. It also said it's 
clear in its terms and conditions that Mr B needs to make sure any assumptions are correct, 
and that it's his responsibility to make sure all the information is accurate before continuing 
with the quote.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He wasn't happy with the valuation 
Confused.com placed on his car and thinks had it been more accurate and not changed his 
information, he'd not have felt underinsured and had the hassle of calling his insurer to 
change the policy and pay a higher premium.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Confused.com made it clear that some information was auto populated, and that it made it 
clear to Mr B that it was his responsibility to check the information was accurate before 
proceeding. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman's decision.
I issued a provisional decision as follows.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im thinking of upholding
it.
Confused.coms role is to help find Mr B an insurance policy that meets his needs. But its
not advising Mr B on which policy to take out, its simply helping him find one by showing him
the policies available to him.
Once Mr B chooses an insurance policy to take out, Confused.com pass his information on
to the relevant insurer. But Mr B is responsible for making sure the information passed on is
accurate. I've seen the terms and conditions Mr B agreed to, and these make it clear that
Mr B is responsible for making sure all the information, including any assumptions is correct.
I've also seen the screenshot of the information Mr B would have been presented with at the
time he filled in his quote. This shows the value of his car as £52,800. Theres a notification
which states that some details have been auto populated - completed automatically - to save
Mr B some time and that should any of this information be incorrect, Mr B should change it
before continuing.
However, I dont think this notification is clear enough. This notification doesnt say that
Confused.com has changed any information, just that it has auto populated some. And Mr B
had already entered the value of his car so has said he didnt think he needed to check
anything hed already entered in.
Ive looked at the value Confused.com valued Mr Bs car at. This value of £52,800 is
considerably lower than what Mr B valued his car at. But more importantly its also
considerably lower than what the relevant guides we use to settle disputes about valuations
valued Mr Bs car at. These valued his car between £65,410 and £71,543. The value
Confused.com assigned to Mr Bs car was lower even than the amount the guides
considered to be the trade value for Mr Bs car  between £61,920 and £65,820.
Confused.com is entitled to use whichever third party it chooses to value its customers
vehicles. But Im of the opinion that it didnt clearly inform Mr B that it had changed any
value, and I dont find it made it clear enough that the value it placed on his car could be
considerably lower than the market value of his vehicle. And as such I find Confused.com
didnt make the implications of this clear enough to Mr B.
In this case, Mr B spotted the lower value before he needed to claim. But he was worried
hed been underinsured to the tune of over £20,000. He called his broker and let them know
of the discrepancy with the value of his car on his policy. It said the underwriter couldnt
insure his car for more than £75,000, and that to insure him up to that value hed need to pay
an additional premium.
Had Confused.com made it clearer it changed the value of his car and that the value it
placed on Mr Bs car could be considerably lower than the market value, I find it likely Mr B
would have changed the value. Had he done so, hed have likely paid the increased
premium hes now paying. Ive not been made aware of any administration fee hes been
asked to pay to make this change. So Im satisfied Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss.But he has suffered trouble and upset. As mentioned above, on seeing the error he was
worried he was underinsured by over £20,000. And hes also had the trouble of calling his
broker and changing the details on his policy. This is something I find it likely he wouldnt
have had to do, had Confused.com made it clearer that the value it used to value Mr Bs car
had been changed and could be considerably lower than its market value. Id recommend
Confused.com pay Mr B £100 in compensation in order to put things right.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Im thinking of upholding Mr Bs complaint. To put things right
Id require Inspop.com Ltd to:
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience
Mr B didnt formally respond to my provisional decision.
Confused.com responded and said it didnt change any information on Mr Bs quote.  It said 
on the quote Mr B accepted he didnt enter the value of his car. It said Mr B had enough 
opportunity to check and change the value of his car before accepting the quote.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Most of my decision is explained in my provisional decision. But I do acknowledge 
Confused.coms argument that it didnt change any data as suggested in the provisional 
decision.
I accept this is the case, but Im still satisfied, when taking into account Mr Bs journey as a 
whole, that the information Confused.com provided when it said it auto populated some 
information wasnt clear enough.
Mr B knew the value of his car and had entered it in previous quotes. On this quote he didnt 
think to check information hed entered in as he, incorrectly thought hed entered the value of 
his car. 
Confused.com is entitled to auto populate this information, and its entitled to use a third 
party to calculate the value of a vehicle. But in this case, had it been clearer that the value 
could be considerably lower than the market value of the car, I find it likely Mr B would have 
changed the information and not have experienced the trouble and inconvenience he did 
with his insurer.
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Inspop.com Ltd to pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused as explained above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Inspop.com Ltd. To put 
things right Inspop.com should:Pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman