DRN-3958271
The complaint
Mr S complains about Advantages Insurance Company Limiteds response to a third party 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr S had car insurance underwritten by Advantage. 
In June 2021, Advantage contacted him to advise that a third party had made a claim with 
their insurer alleging that Mr S had been involved in an accident and had driven away from 
the scene.
Mr S told Advantage he hadnt used his car on the day in question and certainly hadnt been 
involved in an accident.
Advantage said theyd be in touch with the third partys insurer. And theyd send an engineer 
to inspect Mr Ss car to show it hadnt suffered any damage from a recent collision.
In short, Advantage failed to send an engineer to inspect the car, although they did have 
photographs from Mr S which appeared to show the car entirely undamaged.
Mr S believes the failure to inspect the car in a timely manner may, in effect, have weakened 
his defence of the third party claim. 
Mr S complained to Advantage. They admitted theyd promised to inspect the car and had 
failed to do so. And they paid Mr S £145 in compensation for the trouble and upset that had 
caused him. They also advised Mr S that the claim remained open whilst they awaited 
contact from the third partys insurer.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth setting out exactly what Mr S is unhappy about in the way Advantage have 
handled this matter.
He thinks the £145 compensation Advantage offered is inadequate, given that his defence 
against any court proceedings may be compromised by their failure to inspect his car 
immediately after the alleged accident.
He believes Advantage have not collected any evidence to defend him against this claim 
other than a report provided some eight months or so later by the leasing company to which 
the car had been returned.
He says Advantage have not been proactive in progressing the claim and/or chasing the 
third party insurer. And theyve failed to answer his queries about the matter in a timely 
fashion or do anything in response to information hes provided.
Finally, hes also unhappy that his premiums are higher than they might otherwise have 
been because the claim is still open. At the time Mr S brought to his complaint to us, in 
August 2022, around 13 months had passed since Advantage had been notified of the third 
party claim. 
I should stress that this case has not yet been to court to determine liability. Its likely, if it 
does, that the failure to inspect the car immediately will not be fatal to Mr Ss case. The 
photographs Mr S provided are very clear and show no damage to his vehicle. And the court 
would consider other evidence provided by both parties.
Mr S will understand that I cant tell Advantage to increase the compensation in this case on 
the basis of what might hypothetically happen in future, particularly when I think that its 
inherently unlikely to happen.
Advantage recognised that failing to inspect Mr Ss car after theyd promised to do so was 
extremely poor customer service. But Im satisfied the compensation theyve offered is 
sufficient given the degree of frustration and stress Mr S was caused by Advantages 
failings.
I dont believe its true that Advantage have collected no evidence other than the report from 
the leasing company. They have Mr Ss statements about the claim. They are also aware 
that the Police took no further action when the alleged incident was reported to them. If they 
need a Police report to provide to the court in future, they will no doubt be able to obtain it.
I can see from Advantages own contemporaneous claim records that they have been active 
in asking the third party insurer to provide any evidence they might have to substantiate their 
policyholders version of events.
Indeed, the third party insurer has provided a statement which purports to be from an 
independent witness who was close to the scene of the accident when it allegedly occurred.
Advantage  very much in Mr Ss interests  have not backed down and accepted Mr Ss 
liability in the face of this supposed evidence but have asked the third party insurer to 
provide any further evidence or information they have. Advantage have, in essence, said 
that the witness statement is not sufficient to make them concede liability in this case.
I can also see that Advantage have, from time to time, chased the third party insurer to 
establish whether they have any more evidence and/or to ask them what their position on 
the claim now is.
Any delays then are primarily the responsibility of the third partys insurer in this case. And it 
would be unfair to hold Advantage responsible for the fact that the claim remains open.
It is inevitable that if a customer has an open claim on record at the time they renew their 
policy or switch insurers, the premium demanded will go up, all other things being equal. 
However, insurers may refund part of the premium if a previously open claim is eventually 
resolved in their customers favour. As I understand it, Mr S is now with another insurer. 
They will no doubt be happy to consider the position once the claim is resolved.Assuming what Mr S tells us is true  and I have no reason at all to doubt it  then he has 
been put in a very unfortunate position by someone who is either attempting to scam him 
(and Advantage) or because there has been a case of mistaken identity or misreading of a 
licence plate.
Im very sorry Mr S has been put in this position. And I understand how frustrating and 
upsetting that must be.
However, I cant reasonably conclude that Mr S is in that position because of any errors or 
omissions on Advantages part. There is an open claim made against Mr S (and Advantage) 
and it would be inappropriate in all the circumstances for Advantage to close that claim at 
this stage. 
To close the claim, they would usually want the matter to be resolved  either by the third 
party withdrawing it or through an agreed settlement or a court decision. And thats not 
unreasonable at this point in time. 
That position may change over time, particularly if the third partys insurer continues to fail to 
communicate on the matter and/or cant or wont produce evidence theyve alluded to or 
promised to provide. But Im satisfied were not yet in that position in this case.
So, Im not going to uphold this complaint. However, I would say that Mr S has every right to 
expect that Advantage will now take any and all reasonable steps  in a timely manner  to 
resolve this claim with the third partys insurer as soon as practically possible. It would 
clearly be unfair to Mr S if this claim were allowed to remain open indefinitely - or indeed for 
any prolonged period from here onwards.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman