DRN-3387834
The complaint
This complaint is about advice Mr M received from a broker, The Mortgage Store 
(Ian Wilson) Limited (Ian Wilson), when applying for a mortgage in 2020.
What happened
Ian Wilson recommended Mr M take out a mortgage with a lender and an application was 
completed. The lender placed a condition on the application that required Mr M to have a 
valuation survey completed. The surveyor who completed the report noted that damp was 
present and recommended a specialist report to look into this further  they said that any 
necessary work should then be completed. The surveyor also recommended a specialist 
structural report be completed having found evidence of possible structural movement.
Mr M didnt agree that further reports were required, but after some discussions, went 
ahead. The additional timber and damp report suggested repairs which Mr M felt were 
unnecessary. He says he wanted to instruct a new surveyor that he felt would be better 
suited to undertaking the timber and damp report for the property. But that Ian Wilson didnt 
inform him he could obtain reports from other companies and ultimately cancelled his 
application.
Mr M says he lost out financially and had to find a new lender because of the incorrect 
advice given by Ian Wilson. He says that a new broker recommended a mortgage with 
another lender and that the repair work was not necessary for him to obtain that mortgage. 
Ian Wilson didnt agree that it should have handled anything differently, in summary, it said 
that it only passed on the conditions set out by the lender. I understand it refunded the fee it 
charged for the initial advice as the mortgage didnt go ahead.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ms concerns, but they didnt think that Ian Wilson had done 
anything wrong. As Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint and necessary to explain my findings. I say this because any further detail 
could reduce Mr Ms anonymity when the decision is published.
For me to uphold this complaint, I would have to find that Ian Wilson gave incorrect advice to 
Mr M. 
Looking at the initial fact find Ian Wilson completed, the advice given was based on the 
mortgage products available to Mr M at the time of the application. And I dont think 
Ian Wilson could reasonably have anticipated the conditions the chosen lender would apply 
to Mr Ms mortgage application. It follows I dont think Ian Wilson could have predicted the 
additional costs or delays associated with those conditions.
Mr M has provided internet screenshots to show that the lenders website suggests it would 
have accepted reports from other surveyors and says that Ian Wilson didnt communicate 
this to him. He says the problems obtaining the mortgage could have been prevented had he 
been advised to do this. But from what Ive seen, the lender confirmed it was relying on the 
reports conducted by its own surveyors and that in this particular case it was not willing to 
accept anything less than the recommendations made by those surveyors. 
Ian Wilson communicated with both parties to try and resolve the matter but had no ability to 
influence the conditions set out by the lender. And evidence of communications between 
Ian Wilson and the lender show the lender made it clear it would not reconsider the 
application until the remedial works recommended by its own surveyors had been 
completed.
I appreciate Mr M feels this wasnt correct because another lender proceeded without 
requiring the same conditions. But a lender is entitled to decide what conditions it places on 
mortgage offers and Ian Wilson only communicated those conditions. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Ian Wilson handled the lenders conditions inappropriately. Ian Wilson 
has refunded the fee it charged on the basis that the mortgage didnt go ahead and I dont 
think Ian Wilson needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman