DRN-3492618
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, agreed to a payment holiday 
on his mortgage without his consent.
 
What happened
Mr S has a joint mortgage account with his ex-partner. Hes explained it has been agreed 
that no changes can be made to the account without both parties giving their consent. 
On 28 March 2020, Mr Ss ex-partner applied for a Covid-19 payment holiday through 
Halifaxs online application process. The online application indicated that both Mr S and his 
ex-partner had agreed to the request, so a payment holiday was granted for April, May and 
June 2020.
Halifax sent a letter to Mr S confirming the payment holiday. Following receipt of this letter, 
Mr S contacted Halifax on 6 April 2020 and explained he hadnt agreed to the payment 
holiday. He asked for the payment holiday to be removed and Halifax confirmed the full 
three-month payment holiday would be reversed. 
On 3 June 2020, Mr S contacted Halifax to enquire about the payment holiday. He advised 
he had requested to cancel the payment holiday and Halifax confirmed it had been. Mr S 
also asked whether Halifax could make his ex-partner pay for the missed monthly payments. 
Halifax confirmed that as the mortgage account was in credit it wouldnt contact either him or 
his ex-partner for payment. Mr S later found out that Halifax hadnt reversed the entire 
payment holiday. It had only reversed the months of May and June 2020, leaving April 2020 
still being recorded as a payment holiday. Unhappy, Mr S raised a complaint. 
Halifax responded to the complaint on 6 August 2021. It explained that in response to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, it had set up an online facility to offer payment holidays more efficiently. 
It said the submitted application indicated both parties had given their consent to the 
payment holiday but recognised the facility didnt take into account dispute indicators. Halifax 
apologised that Mr S had been informed the entire payment holiday had been reversed and 
confirmed April 2020 remained as a payment holiday. It said that it wouldnt now reverse the 
April 2020 payment holiday as to do so would put the mortgage into arrears. Halifax also 
apologised for voiding Mr Ss complaint in July 2021 and paid him £150 for any 
inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Halifax needed to do anything 
further. They explained that Halifax had correctly followed the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
guidance on Covid-19 payment holidays. They said that removing the April 2020 payment 
holiday would now put the account in arrears potentially impacting both parties, so didnt 
think this would be fair. The Investigator agreed that Halifax had made some errors with 
regards to customer service but felt the offer of £150 compensation was fair.  
Mr S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said that Halifax were aware 
that no changes to the account should be made without his permission, but they have still 
allowed a payment holiday for April 2020. He said they told him all three months would be 
reversed which hasnt happened. He also explained that his ex-partners financial 
circumstances actually improved during the pandemic and the payment holiday wasnt 
needed. He says because of the payment holiday three payments were missed and interest 
was added to the account impacting him financially  so he didnt feel the £150 paid fairly 
compensated him for this.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published specific guidance for 
lenders with regards to mortgages. The guidance was aimed to help mortgage customers 
whose financial circumstances had been, or were expected to be, affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic. The guidance made clear that lenders should offer a payment holiday to 
borrowers without the need to make detailed enquiries into their circumstances  and that 
there was no need to assess affordability.
This meant that Halifax, like many other businesses, had to quickly put in place processes 
that would allow its customers affected by Covid-19 to obtain a payment holiday under the 
FCA guidance. Understandably, due to how quickly these processes were put in place, 
mistakes occurred, such as not taking into account dispute indicators  as Halifax has 
indicated happened in this case. However, even taking into account there was a dispute 
marker on Mr Ss account, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when it put in place the 
payment holiday. Ill explain why. 
Mr S has explained that in order for his ex-partner to remain living in the property they need 
to make the monthly mortgage payments. As Mr Ss ex-partner is making the monthly 
mortgage payments, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Halifax to provide them with a 
payment holiday if they requested one. I say this because by not doing so, it would have 
firstly gone against the FCAs guidance at the time, and secondly, could have potentially put 
the account into arrears if Mr Ss ex-partner couldnt make the monthly payments, adversely 
impacting both Mr S and his ex-partner  going against Halifaxs duty to act as a responsible 
lender. 
I understand that Mr S has argued that his ex-partner didnt necessarily need the payment 
holiday and that her financial circumstances actually improved during the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, I dont think this is relevant because as explained the guidance 
required Halifax to offer a payment holiday without the need to make detailed enquiries into 
an individuals circumstances.
In any event, Halifax agreed to reverse the payment holiday as Mr S requested, but only did 
this for the months of May and June 2020. Halifax has explained this happened because it 
was too late to cancel the April 2020 payment holiday, due to the payment for April having 
already been processed when Mr S called on 6 April 2020 to reverse the payment holiday. 
This explanation doesnt seem unreasonable, but I think this could have been explained to 
Mr S when he called to reverse the payment holiday  and because it wasnt, he has 
experienced some distress and inconvenience. 
I understand that Mr S would like for Halifax to reverse the April 2020 payment holiday as it 
initially said it had. However, I wont be asking Halifax to do this because as explained, I 
think Halifax acted fairly by putting in place the payment holiday which was requested by 
Mr Ss ex-partner  especially considering they were the ones responsible for maintaining 
the monthly payments. Halifax has also explained that if it were to reverse the April 2020 payment holiday it would now put the mortgage account into arrears, adversely impacting 
both account holders credit files, which I dont think is in anyones best interests. 
Mr S has said that because the three payments have been missed between April and 
June 2020 he has been financially impacted  as interest has been added to the mortgage 
because of this. Ive reviewed the transaction history for Mr Ss and his ex-partners 
mortgage account and the only payment which wasnt collected was the April 2020 monthly 
payment. The May and June 2020 monthly payments were covered by the credit on the 
account  which Halifax has said has accrued due to previous overpayments  so no 
additional interest was charged for these months as Mr S has suggested. 
As for the April 2020 payment, interest would continue to be charged during the payment 
holiday. I think it should also be noted that the interest charged, is interest Mr S and his ex-
partner would have always incurred if they had continued with their monthly payment. The 
only difference is that because the interest hasnt been paid, its been added to the 
outstanding balance where it will accrue a small amount of additional interest.
I wont be directing Halifax to refund this additional interest as I think it has acted fairly when 
agreeing to the payment holiday. However, if Mr S is concerned about the payment holiday 
and the additional interest charged, as a joint account holder he is free to make the 
April 2020 monthly mortgage payment himself. 
I understand that Mr S has also raised concerns about Halifax not logging his complaint in 
the April 2020 call. Ive listened to the call and Im satisfied that Mr S didnt make a 
complaint. He had called to have the payment holiday reversed and mentioned his concerns 
over his ex-partner being able to make changes without his consent. However, following 
Halifaxs explanation and confirmation that the payment holiday would be removed, Mr Ss 
concerns were resolved. In addition to this, Halifax did incorrectly void Mr Ss complaint in 
July 2021 which I think would have caused him further distress and inconvenience. 
Halifax has paid Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience. I think this 
fairly reflects the misinformation he was given with regards to the entire payment holiday 
being reversed and Halifax incorrectly voiding his complaint in July 2021.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman