DRN-2127273
The complaint
AXA France IARD has now taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to AXA France as the seller in my decision.
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2001.
Miss W says AXA France mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AXA France had to make Miss W aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent 
before adding it to her card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Miss W applied for 
her card and PPI. AXA France has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Miss Ws 
store card application form had a separate section for PPI which was signed separately from 
agreeing to the card itself. Miss W then signed the application again in agreement with the 
selections that were made on it. Miss W has told us she didnt complete the form herself and 
was just told where to sign. But Miss W was agreeing to an important financial commitment, 
so I would still have expected her to have checked over the form before signing. With the 
information available I think Miss W would have known she didnt have to take the PPI and 
she chose to have it.
AXA France didnt recommend the policy to Miss W so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about the policy so she 
could decide if she wanted to take it out.
Miss W says she would have received statutory sick pay and had no savings. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to Miss Ws sick pay, and for longer. Based on what Ive 
seen of Miss Ws circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. So, I think it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking out the cover.
Miss W has also explained she had reason to claim under the policy and didnt, which shows 
she didnt know about it. But I dont think this means the policy was mis-sold. As Ive 
explained above the evidence shows Miss W agreed to take the policy when she applied for 
the card.
Which means AXA France doesnt have to pay back to Miss W the cost of the policy.
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman