DRN-4005639
The complaint
Miss T complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted her a hire 
purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2018, Miss T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage. Miss T was required to make 53 monthly repayments of £120.59, with a final 
payment of £295.59 at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement 
was £6,686.86.
Miss T says that Advantage didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included credit and affordability checks.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Advantage didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss T didnt agree and said we hadnt properly taken account of her circumstances at the 
time. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss T about her ability to repay. I say this because Advantage carried 
out checks that included reviewing the information in her application and verifying her 
income. Advantage was able to identify Miss Ts occupation and her monthly income and 
also her residential status as a tenant. It also carried an affordability check, showing Miss Ts 
bank account and details about various credit commitments. Advantage found no evidence 
of Miss T having been in recent financial difficulties with any of these. However, just because 
I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Advantage gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Miss T. I say this because the checks assessed her total credit indebtedness  
as being around £3,500 and that her finances at that point were generally in good order such 
that she was managing her bank account and other credit reasonably well. And whilst Ive 
seen that Advantage found out as part of its checks that Miss T had defaulted on some 
accounts in the past, these were sufficiently old so as not to affect its decision to provide the 
credit. The fact that Miss T may have agreed repayment plans to help reduce some of these 
outstanding debts doesnt necessarily show that the new credit agreement would be 
unaffordable. 
I have also seen some details about Miss Ts spending before the agreement and note that it 
included making regular use of gambling sites. But there isnt enough evidence or 
information to show or suggest that the lending approved by Advantage was unaffordable. 
Miss T has also told us about the difficult personal and financial circumstances she has been 
experiencing in recent years. Whilst Im sorry to learn of these issues and have kept them in 
mind, they dont change my view. 
For the reasons Ive given, I therefore dont think Advantage acted unfairly when approving 
Miss Ts finance application. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman