DRN-3504344
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
from what he says were two investment scams.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr B complains that he was the victim of two separate scams. The first involved five debit 
card payments totalling £928.45 from his current account between 2 September 2021 and 
21 September 2021 to two different cryptocurrency exchange companies. The second 
involved two bank transfers from his current account to what he believed was a loan 
company.
Mr B was contacted on his social media account by someone claiming to be an investment 
broker who told him he could make money from investing in cryptocurrency. The broker gave 
Mr B a link to a website which showed how the investment would operate.
The broker persuaded Mr B that he would make a profit. He was told to pay money to two 
cryptocurrency exchange companies which were then used to fund his trading account. He 
was also given login details so he could view his trading portfolio online. 
When Mr B tried to make a withdrawal from his trading account, he was told hed need to 
pay a withdrawal fee of £2,000, so he applied for a loan. During the loan application process, 
he was told he would need to pay a series of upfront fees. He made two payments to the 
loan company before realising hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr Bs representative contacted Halifax in October 2021 to complain about the scams. 
Regarding the payments Mr B had made to the cryptocurrency exchange companies, Halifax 
said it didnt accept there were any bank errors and as the payments were to legitimate 
exchange companies and, as the companies had provided the goods/services theyd 
described, no chargeback rights were available. It also said Mr B hadnt carried out due 
diligence on the investment broker.
Regarding the payments to the loan company, Halifax said it had tried to contact the 
receiving bank, but the money had already left the account. It explained the faster payments 
Mr B had made werent classified as suspicious and werent flagged as unusual and the 
receiving bank wasnt covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. It 
said Mr B hadnt received a copy of the loan agreement and it commented that genuine loan 
companies wouldnt ask for money in advance or prior to the loan being set up.
Mr B wasnt satisfied and so he brought his complaint to this service. He believes Halifax 
shouldve done more to protect him from being scammed or to help him get his money back. 
He wants Halifax to refund his losses.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He accepted Mr B had been the 
victim of two scams, but he explained the payments were paid to legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange companies and as those companies had provided their services to Mr B, Halifaxs 
decision not to attempt the chargeback process was reasonable. He commented that there 
was an FCA warning about regulated services from a merchant with a similar name to one of 
the cryptocurrency exchange companies but he was satisfied the company Mr B had paid 
money to was a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company.
He also said that, based on Mr Bs normal payment and account activity, he didnt think 
either of the payments to the loan company were particularly unusual or suspicious. He 
commented that a few weeks before, Mr B had made an international payment for £359.89 
(plus £11.26 non-sterling fees) and the disputed payments were of similarly low value. 
Mr Bs representative has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Theyve argued Mr B was able to send multiple large payments to high risk cryptocurrency 
exchanges, some of which were made on the same day. Theyve said Halifax shouldve 
known the cryptocurrency exchanges were recognised for high levels of fraud and that the 
sudden change in the operation of the account was unusual and required questioning, and 
had they done so the fraud would have been prevented.
Mr Bs representative also commented that the international payment our investigator had 
referred to was a lone payment as opposed to multiple payments to multiple cryptocurrency 
exchanges by bank transfer which represented a drastic change in the operation of the 
account compared to the account activity prior to the scam.
Regarding the payments Mr B had made in respect of the loan application, Mr Bs 
representative said he had made two bank transfers on two consecutive days, which was 
unusual. They also explained the loan company had convincing branding and appeared to 
be a legitimate lender, especially as Mr B was young and had never taken out any finance 
before, so was not aware of what to expect or how the process worked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the debit card payments
Mr B has lost £928.45 in payments that he made using his debit card to two cryptocurrency 
exchange companies. From the evidence Ive seen, the payments went to genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange firms. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and therefore 
the extent of what we would expect Halifax to have done to protect Mr B is restricted to 
triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual that Halifax 
ought to have intervened to warn Mr B when he tried to make the payments. 
Halifax, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be 
on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Halifax has confirmed the 
payments didnt flag as suspicious on its system. Ive considered the nature of the payments 
in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr B normally ran his 
account and I dont think they were. I appreciate there were five separate payments but 
given the amounts were not unusually large and were made to legitimate companies, Im not 
persuaded there was any obligation on Halifax to intervene or prevent the payments.Mr Bs representative has said the fact Mr B had made payments to cryptocurrency 
exchange companies was unusual, but those companies were legitimate merchants, 
payments to which wouldnt, in isolation, trigger fraud alerts.
Mr B says Halifax should have intervened in his debit card spending and that they didnt do 
enough to protect him. Ive considered this, but Im not persuaded Halifax was wrong to 
process the payments at the times they were made. 
Cryptocurrency exchange companies offer to exchange pound sterling into cryptocurrency 
and then transfer it into an e-wallet. When Mr B approached Halifax, it considered the 
chargeback process but it concluded the payments Mr B had made were to legitimate 
exchange companies which had provided the goods/services theyd described, and so no 
chargeback rights were available. I think this decision was fair because there wasnt a 
reasonable chance of a successful chargeback and the companies had provided the service 
they were required to provide, namely, to convert the money into cryptocurrency. 
the bank transfers
When Mr B applied for a loan, he was sent a text message to confirm the loan was approved 
but that, before the funds could be transferred, he would need to make a number of 
payments to the loan company. Unfortunately, Mr B made two payments before he realised 
it was a scam.
Responding to Mr Bs complaint, Halifax said it had contacted the receiving bank but by that 
time the money was no longer in the account. It also explained that neither of the two 
payments had been flagged up as unusual or suspicious. While the payments were made to 
a new payee and resulted in Mr B going into his overdraft, the transactions were not for 
particularly large amounts, they were sent to the same domestic payee and Mr B was using 
funds from his approved overdraft that he was entitled to use. As above, Ive considered the 
nature of the payments in the context of whether they were of how Mr B normally ran his 
account and I dont think they were unusual or uncharacteristic.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr B lost 
such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax 
is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman