DRN-2039153
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, trading as RSA,
has declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
I wont detail everything thats happened. Ill focus on the points which I think are key to 
understanding and resolving this complaint fairly.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs W bought a house and took out home insurance with RSA. Later, they 
noticed damage to their conservatory and patio. They took advice from a structural engineer, 
who thought the damage had been caused by subsidence.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to RSA in September 2018. RSA appointed a loss adjuster who 
inspected the damage and arranged for further investigations to be carried out. In June 2019 
the loss adjuster said the claim was declined. It agreed the damage had been caused by 
subsidence. But it thought this was a result of an inadequate foundation and said poor 
design or faulty workmanship wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said the conservatory had been built by the previous 
owner. And when buying the house, they hadnt been made aware of any structural issues. 
So it was unfair to hold them responsible for the work that had been carried out. They were 
also unhappy with the way RSA had handled the claim, including the time it had taken.
RSA accepted there had been delays. It apologised to Mr and Mrs W and gave them £200 
compensation. But it maintained the claim had been declined fairly because the foundations 
were inadequate.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service and an investigator considered it. He 
initially thought it should be upheld. But after further points were raised and more information 
was provided, he was satisfied RSA had acted fairly when declining the claim for inadequate 
foundations. He said the evidence showed the foundation depth hadnt taken into account 
the relevant factors when it was built, such as a nearby oak tree.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They thought the foundation exceeded the requirements of 
Building Regulations. They also considered the evidence showed why the foundation wasnt 
built deeper. And they still felt it unfair for the claim to be declined for something which 
happened prior to them owning the house. They noted theyd taken professional advice from 
a number of parties, such as solicitors and surveyors, and they said none had raised 
concerns about the conservatory or the oak tree.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not damage caused by faulty 
workmanship, poor design or the use of defective materials.
RSA accepts the damage has been caused by subsidence and says this was a result of clay 
shrinkage due to the oak tree. But RSA says the foundation design was poor because it 
wasnt deep enough and didnt take into account all the requirements of Building 
Regulations. And where a structure isnt subject to these regulations, RSA says it should be 
built to take into account the specific ground conditions and external factors, such as trees. It 
says the construction professional is responsible for considering this, alongside relevant 
guidelines and regulations.
Most conservatories are exempt from Building Regulations, but not all. Its not clear whether 
RSA thinks Mr and Mrs Ws conservatory is exempt from, or subject to, the regulations. But I 
dont think that matters. Even if the conservatory wasnt subject to Building Regulations, they 
still provide a guide about good industry practice and the kinds of thing a builder ought to 
take into account. And like RSA, Im satisfied a builder should take into consideration 
relevant regulations and guidelines, as well as the specific circumstances of the site, when 
building a conservatory  including the foundation design.
The conservatory was built in 2005 and, at that time, had a foundation depth of 750mm. 
I understand the conservatory suffered damage due to foundation movement and, in 2011, 
the previous owner took engineering advice about it. To take into account the nearby oak 
tree and its likely future height, the engineer recommended the foundation be extended to 
2,100  2,300mm depending on the exact ground conditions encountered at those depths. 
Ground investigations carried out in 2019 revealed the foundation to be at most 1,500mm 
deep and founded on a highly shrinkable clay soil.
From 2004 to 2013, Building Regulations recommended a minimum depth of 750mm in all 
clay soils, noting that depth would commonly need to be increased. In 2013 the 
recommendations changed, requiring a minimum of 1,000mm in highly shrinkable clay. Its 
not clear exactly when the conservatory foundation was extended, but it appears to be 2012 
at the latest. So Im satisfied the earlier regulations were the ones in force at the time the 
conservatory was built and when it was underpinned.
I agree with Mr and Mrs W that, at both times, the foundation met the minimum requirement 
of Building Regulations  it was at least 750mm deep. But the regulations call for 
consideration of an increased depth. They dont specify what that depth should be  only 
that an increase may be needed to transfer the weight of the structure satisfactorily. Such an 
increase may not be needed in all cases. It will depend on the individual circumstances of 
the site. And even if the regulations didnt apply, Im satisfied a builder should consider those 
circumstances and whether the foundation depth is likely to be suitable.
Here, the evidence shows a building engineer took into account the regulations and other 
relevant information, such as the characteristics of the soil and the likely impact on the 
building of the tree and its roots  as it stood and as it grew in the future. Based on those 
site-specific variables, he made a recommendation to extend the foundation to at least 
2,100mm. Im persuaded this recommendation considered an increased depth, in line with 
the requirement of the regulations. And I havent seen any other engineering 
recommendations or opinions which challenge it.
The foundation was actually extended to 1,500mm. Roots from the oak tree were found to a 
depth of 1,900mm. RSA says this means that if the foundation had been extended beyond 
2,000mm  in line with the recommendations  its unlikely there would have been subsidence. I havent seen any engineering opinion to counter this opinion and Im satisfied 
its a logical conclusion.
I understand Mr and Mrs W have shared all the relevant information they have with us. But 
theres little evidence to explain why the recommendation wasnt followed. An invoice 
provided from the contractor who carried out the work simply says 1.5m deep underpinning. 
And an engineering report from 2018 says the depth was governed by the excavator used to 
carry out the works. I havent seen anything to suggest the engineering advice changed. 
Instead it seems it was the equipment used that limited the depth that could be reached.
Overall, Im not persuaded the engineering advice was followed. And theres no evidence of 
the advice changing, or alternative advice being followed. So Im not satisfied all the relevant 
regulations, guidelines and the specific circumstances were taken into account and followed 
when the foundation was designed and built. The evidence persuades me that the 
subsidence wouldnt have occurred if those things had been done. For that reason, Im 
satisfied it was fair for RSA to rely on the exclusion for poor design when declining the claim.
I recognise Mr and Mrs W feel strongly that its unfair for their claim to be declined. They 
point out they didnt own the property when the conservatory was built, or when the 
foundation extended. They consider theyre being held responsible for the work carried out 
for the previous owner  and losing out as a result.
Mr and Mrs W say they took advice from professionals when they bought their house, 
including guidance from solicitors and surveyors, and none of them thought there was a 
problem. Mr and Mrs W say theyre not building professionals and feel they had no way of 
knowing there was a problem.
The exclusion relied upon is simply for damage caused by poor design. It doesnt require the 
policyholder to have prior knowledge of the problem, or to have owned the property when 
the poor design was carried out. Where a policyholder has bought the property with the 
structure in place and has received something to show the structure has been built to the 
relevant standards, such as a Building Control certificate, I may find it unfair for the insurer to 
rely on such an exclusion. Here, the only information provided from the time Mr and Mrs W 
bought their house is the engineering advice and the builders invoice  which together show 
a discrepancy between the advice and what was carried out. I recognise Mr and Mrs W may 
not be expected to notice this discrepancy themselves. But Im not persuaded it would be fair 
to ask RSA to accept the claim in these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W also say RSA were aware the property had previously suffered a subsidence 
problem  but didnt make further enquiries about it. RSA initially indicated it was aware of 
the earlier problem but has since clarified that it wasnt  and has provided evidence to 
support that. The policy documents from 2017 say:
Does the property have signs of, or has it ever had damage to it, by landslip, subsidence or 
heave?  No
I understand Mr and Mrs W took out the policy through a broker. This complaint is against 
RSA so I cant consider how the broker sold the policy. But Im satisfied RSA wasnt made 
aware about a previous subsidence problem at the property. As a result, I wouldnt have 
expected it to make any further enquiries about this point.
Ive considered the way the claim was handled, including the time it took. RSA has accepted 
there were delays and I agree. The loss adjuster carried out its inspection in October and it 
took until June for the investigations to be completed and reviewed. In the meantime, Mr and 
Mrs W described the upset and inconvenience of chasing for progress and receiving mixed messages  all whilst the damage worsened. RSA also acknowledged similar problems 
around the time Mr and Mrs W made their complaint.
I note during the claim investigation, the loss adjuster sent Mr and Mrs W a letter saying the 
damage wasnt consistent with subsidence  which wasnt in line with any of the other 
information the loss adjuster had given about the claim. It appears to have been an error, 
which added to the upset and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs W.
RSA has a duty to handle claims fairly and promptly and Im satisfied it didnt meet that. It 
apologised and gave Mr and Mrs W £200 compensation. Im satisfied thats reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W have asked that RSA compensate them for the damage worsening during the 
periods of delay. I havent seen any evidence to show how much extra damage occurred 
during the delays  and whether that extra damage has had an impact on the cost of repairs. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to ask RSA to make an additional payment of 
compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman