DRN-3152754
The complaint
Mr L feels that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt notify him of interest and 
charges that were due to be applied to his overdraft, as a result he feels the interest and 
charges were applied unfairly.
What happened
Mr L complained to NatWest about overdraft interest and charges applied to his account. He 
says he was not aware the charges and interest would be applied until the bank contacted 
him in October 2019 to say his account was over his overdraft limit.
NatWest looked at Mr Ls complaint, it felt the charges applied to his account were fair and 
explained that they had been set out in the terms and conditions of the account. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, NatWest refunded £150 of charges. NatWest sent Mr L its letter setting 
this out in November 2019, but it appears Mr L may not have received it as he went on to 
contact NatWest again, saying his complaint had not been addressed.
NatWest agreed that its telephone communication with him about his complaint could have 
been better, and paid him £100 compensation and £10.80 for call costs, but confirmed it had 
written to him regarding his complaint about the charges in November 2019 and still felt that 
its response was fair. Mr L remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us. In his 
referral, Mr L also noted that he had asked NatWest for a settlement figure so he could close 
his account, but that despite making this payment his account remained open as more 
overdraft interest had been applied.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns, he explained that he didnt think 
NatWest had acted unfairly in applying the charges and interest to Mr Ls account. Mr L 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint, Ill 
explain why.
I understand that Mr L says he didnt know about the interest and charges that would be 
applied to his account. But Im satisfied that NatWest did what it was required to do to here.  
The charges and interest that would apply to any overdraft facility on the account were set 
out in the terms and conditions that Mr L agreed to when he opened his account. I 
appreciate that Mr L says he wasnt specifically told of the interest and charges as they were 
being applied, but from my experience these would have been set out on Mr Ls monthly 
bank statements. And I can see that all the contact details NatWest held for Mr L were 
correct, so theres nothing to suggest these statements wouldnt have been sent to Mr L as 
normal. 
In any case, it was still Mr Ls responsibility to monitor his account, even if he wasnt using it 
regularly, particularly as it wasnt in credit. And I also note that up until May 2019, although 
Mr L hadnt been using his account for day-to-day transactions for some time, he was 
regularly making small payments into the account to apparently cover the charges and 
interest that were due, so its not clear why he would have assumed these charges and 
interest wouldnt continue when his account remained overdrawn.
And when Mr L contacted NatWest about his account it refunded £150 of the charges and 
interest that had been applied, which I think was a reasonable step for it to take to try and 
help Mr L with his account. I also think that the payment of £100 (plus around £10 for call 
costs) that NatWest made to Mr L for its failure to keep him fully updated about his complaint 
is fair in the circumstances. Lastly, I note what Mr L has said about the remaining balance on 
his account, but NatWest has confirmed that its intention is to write off this amount and 
close Mr Ls account, so I dont think it needs to do anything more in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr L, but Im satisfied that NatWest hasnt 
treated him unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman