DRN-1811581
 
The complaint
Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs W made a credit card application to Littlewoods by phone in 2005. She took out PPI at 
the same time. It gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover, and protection for 
some of her purchases. Barclays is now responsible for the PPI sale, so Ive referred to 
Barclays throughout this decision. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W so it had to make sure it was right for her. It also 
had to provide enough clear information, so she could make an informed decision before 
agreeing to take it out.   
I dont think the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the cost and benefit of the policy 
was as clear as it should have been. I have seen a copy of the sales script that the adviser 
would have followed. This told Mrs W the policy would cost £1.22 for every £100 of her 
monthly balance, but it wasnt made clear that the cost of the premium would be added to 
what Mrs W owed on her credit card, and that she would be charged interest on that. 
And I think this would have mattered to Mrs W as given her circumstances at the time of the 
sale and the level of benefit the policy gave her, I dont think she would have thought the 
policy gave her good enough value. Our adjudicator reached the same conclusion and 
Barclays responded in detail disagreeing with this view. It also provided a copy of a phone 
call it had with Mrs W in May 2019 when it rang to check her circumstances at the time of the 
sale. I have considered its comments carefully and listened to the call in full.   
Mrs W told us she was entitled to between three and six months sick pay and had savings 
worth six to 12 months salary. Barclays argues her testimony has been inconsistent so cannot be relied on. She gave it different information in a questionnaire completed in July 
2019. And on the call in May 2019 she said she couldnt recall her sick pay from 2005, but it 
was 90 days now. She also said then she thought she would have had some savings, but 
not more than £1000. 
I accept that Mrs W has been inconsistent in her recollection of her circumstances in 2005. 
But thats not unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. We have asked why her 
evidence has varied, she points to how long ago the sale was, and how she was unsure 
when the bank called. I think that comes across on the call and I dont think thats surprising 
given shes being asked to recollect details from 15 years ago. I can understand shes been 
honestly mistaken at times. Mrs W is unable to provide any supporting documentation. So I 
have to make a decision based on what I think is most likely. 
Given her role and length of employment I think its credible she wouldve received at least 
three months sick pay and could have had at least three months salary in savings. Based on 
this being her likely circumstances, Im still satisfied that it is a fair conclusion that had she 
been better advised and informed its likely Mrs W would not have thought the PPI offered 
her good value. So I think she would most likely not have decided to take it out.
This means Mrs W has lost out as a result of the problems with this sale. So I think Barclays 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A - Barclays should find out how much Mrs W would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, it can deduct any commission refund 
already paid to Mrs W.
B - If  when Barclays works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mrs W wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
C - Barclays should tell Mrs W what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold Mrs Ws complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman