DRN-4326489
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) unfairly turned down his claims under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) relating to a loan 
provided to him to purchase a timeshare product.  
What happened
Mr R has been a holder of timeshare products provided and sold by a company (who Ill refer 
to as A) since 2004. Over that time, he purchased various timeshare products and 
upgrades from A, many of which were funded by loans provided by various different 
businesses.
In or around November 2021, Mr R wrote to Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) to complain 
and submit a claim under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. Although I havent found a copy 
of the actual complaint submitted to VFL, it appears it related to the purchase of additional 
membership points in a product provided by A and financed under a fixed-sum loan 
agreement with VFL in June 2019.
Having not received a substantive response from VFL, Mr R referred his complaint to this 
service. In doing so, he included several reasons for his claim supported by references to 
other similar claims, complaints, rulings and published findings that either involved A as the 
supplier or where similar circumstances and allegations were involved. It isnt practical for 
me to repeat everything that Mr R said in his claim. However, I would summarise the main 
aspects briefly as follows:
the product purchased was fraudulently represented as an investment in real 
property which could be sold at a profit;
A wasnt authorised or licensed under the Office of Fair Trading to broker finance;
he was coerced into signing the credit agreement after hours of high pressure selling 
involving aggressive and oppressive practices;
he wasnt provided with copies of the agreements or given time to read and 
understand them;
the purchase agreement was unfair as ongoing maintenance fees were unclear with 
no right to challenge their calculation; and
no checks were completed to ensure the loan was affordable.
Mr R believes the various allegations point to breaches of various regulations and legislation 
that applies to the sale of timeshare products and any associated finance rendering the loan 
with VFL as unenforceable.
Having referred his complaint to this service, VFL subsequently provided a written response 
to Mr R. They summarised Mr Rs claim as alleging that:
he was drawn into an agreement which he believes to be a financial scam;
VFL was an unauthorised company, so shouldnt have been able to provide the 
associated loan in question; and
he is not in a position to pay back the loan.
VFL didnt uphold the various allegation pointing out that Mr R had made use of the various 
timeshare products over the years on multiple occasions and continued to do so. They said 
there was evidence Mr R was happy to complete the purchase of membership points and in 
any event, was very much aware of the statutory 14-day cooling off period in which he 
couldve elected to cancel the agreements.
VFL said Mr R had continued to meet repayments to his loan and theyd not been informed 
of any financial struggles. So, they had no reason to believe the loan wasnt affordable for 
him.
Finally, VFL didnt agree they hadnt acted in line with their authorisation or the relevant 
associated regulations.
One of our investigators considered everything Mr R said and provided together with any 
other evidence available from the time of the sale. Having done so, they didnt believe VFL 
had acted unfairly or unreasonable in rejecting Mr Rs claim. In particular, our investigator 
didnt think there was any evidence to support the allegation that the timeshare product had 
been misrepresented. Or that there was anything that might suggest a court was likely to find 
the relationship between Mr R and VFL was unfair.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman. In doing so, he made various comments and observations including:
thered been a failure to compare his complaint to similar complaints about A and 
VFL;
the relevant rules regulations and principles hadnt been adequately considered; and
our investigator had failed to consider findings relating to another business that had 
financed purchases from A.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further. In the interim period, Mr R has continued to provide further information and 
evidence that he feels is relevant to his complaint.
Having considered the relevant information about Mr Rs complaint, I reached a similar 
outcome to that of our investigator. But in doing so, I addressed various aspects that I felt 
werent fully considered previously. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 3 
August 2023, giving both Mr R and Vacation Finance Limited the opportunity to respond to 
my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides consumers with protection for goods or 
services bought using credit. Where Mr R paid for his timeshare product having 
financed it with a restricted use regulated loan from VFL, he is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. So, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 140A of the CCA (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between 
Mr R and VFL arising out of any credit agreement (taken together with any related 
agreements). And where the product purchased was funded under a credit 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authorityagreement, its deemed to be a related agreement. Only a court has the power to 
make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when 
deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe VFLs treatment of Mr Rs claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial 
products and services and provides rules and guidance about what this service is 
able to consider. It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines 
on any business. Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their procedures or 
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. 
These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the FCA. 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and 
reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Rs experience with them. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr Rs timeshare product experience
Based upon the information available, it appears Mr R has a long association with A 
and the products they offer. In particular relating to a holiday destination he regularly 
attends. Mr R has confirmed that association started in July 2004 when he purchased 
his first timeshare product from A. It appears later purchases and upgrades were 
agreed and completed in or around March 2013, June 2014, June 2015, June 2018 
and June 2019.
Over time, Mr Rs product holding varied in terms of the allocated accommodation, 
time period and flexibility according to the product purchased on each occasion. And 
I understand many, if not all, of the purchases were completed utilising finance 
provided by different businesses (including VFL).
So, based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr R had a 
reasonably strong awareness about the products hed purchased, how they operated 
and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that Mr R was 
familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales presentations given by them. 
Particularly as the presentations hes referred to in 2018 and 2019 werent his first 
experience.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75Its not entirely clear which purchase is actually the subject of Mr Rs claim. Having 
read all the claims and comments submitted  including a letter Mr R sent to the 
FCA, there seems to be reference to multiple purchases and loans. As the claim was 
raised with VFL, I can only consider that in relation to any purchase funded under 
loan agreements with them  subject to any limitations. VFLs response to Mr Rs 
claim specifically references a loan and purchase that took place in June 2019. So, 
for the purpose of this decision, that is the one I shall focus on.
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr R something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr R to enter the contract. This means I would need to be 
persuaded that Mr R reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr R was specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product he purchased. It was, however, 
indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the 
other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen 
any documentation which supports Mr Rs assertions, like marketing material or 
documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what he says he was told. In 
particular that the product purchased was represented as a financial investment.
I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary 
to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent value to Mr 
Rs membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the limited evidence 
provided to suggest A provided any assurances or guarantees about the future value 
of the product purchased. A would had to have presented the membership in such a 
way that used its investment element to persuade Mr R to contract. Only then would 
it have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products 
as an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3). 
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentation. 
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr R) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
As Ive said previously, its important to acknowledge that only a court can make a 
determination under S140A. But as this is relevant law, I need to take it into account 
in reaching my decision  where appropriate.
The pressured sale and process
The claim and subsequent submissions set out several allegations that Mr R was 
pressured into completing the purchase to the point of being made uncomfortable. I acknowledge what he says about the length of the sales presentations he attended. 
So, I can understand why its argued that the prolonged nature of any presentation 
might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as he approached the closing 
stages, he was going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing 
out on an offer that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr R agreed to the purchase in 2019 when he simply didnt want 
to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to 
A, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to it when he didnt want to. And he 
hasnt provided a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek to cancel 
the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period usually permitted here. I 
acknowledge that he says the cooling off period wasnt highlighted to him. However, 
given his long experience and dealings with A, Im not persuaded he wouldnt have 
been aware of it.
If he only agreed to the purchase because he felt he was pressured, I find this aspect 
difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr R was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate he 
made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise choice was  or was 
likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor [A] 
and matters relating to the debtor [Mr R]).
Mr R already held an existing timeshare product hed purchased previously from A. 
Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade of his existing 
timeshare product holding. So, it doesnt appear it was a new product purchase. And 
Mr R wasnt a new customer. So, its likely he wouldve benefitted from his previous 
experience and what might be expected from the meeting and sales presentation in 
2019.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mr Rs overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
Ive seen very limited documentation from the time of the sale. But having previously 
seen similar documents relating to As product sales, Im aware they normally include 
a period of 14 days from the date of agreeing to the purchase within which to cancel 
the agreement without giving any reason  as required under the TRs. 
So, even if I were to find that Mr R wasnt given adequate opportunity to read, 
consider and understand the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I 
make no such finding - I would expect him to have had sufficient time in which to 
consider his decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise 
any questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. 
Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr R did raise any questions or concerns 
prior to the sale being completed. Or that he had any intention of cancelling the 
agreement.Ive already acknowledged that Mr R says he wasnt given copies of the agreements. 
And he also suggests these were posted to him at a later date  but not received. If 
that were the case, Id expect to see evidence that hed requested copies of these 
documents sooner. But I havent seen anything suggesting that happened. And as 
Ive already said, given his experience with A goes back to 2004, I think its 
reasonable to conclude he wouldve been aware of As processes and of any 
regulatory cooling off period available to him.
Regulatory breaches
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are 
put in a position to make an informed decision. If As disclosure and/or the terms of 
the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr R ultimately lost out or 
almost certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract, the financial 
implications of which he didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may 
amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, given the limited documentation provided, I havent seen any evidence to 
support the breaches alleged here. And as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin3 
makes clear, it doesnt automatically follow that regulatory breaches create 
unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if 
there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical 
way. In other words, if I were to find thered been regulatory breaches  and I make 
no such finding - they are only likely to lead to unfairness where theres evidence Mr 
R suffered loss as a consequence.
I havent seen any evidence that A enforced any of the terms within the product 
agreement to such an extent that they caused loss or resulted in unfairness. 
Are the agreements null and void?
Various arguments have been made to support a belief that the timeshare and 
lending agreements here are null and void as a result of various alleged regulatory 
breaches. 
Specifically:
The authorised status of A  This services records show that A was 
registered as a representative of VFL from 25 April 2016. And VFL was 
authorised under this services compulsory jurisdiction from 31 March 2016 
which means they held the required authorisation from the FCA. And as their 
representative, A was able to introduce credit business to them. So, I dont 
agree that A didnt hold the required authorisation to introduce business to 
VFL under section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA).
Canvassing off trade premises - Section 154 of the CCA says, It is an 
offence to canvass off trade premises the services of a person carrying on a 
business of credit-brokerage []. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook defines canvassing off trade premises as:
(a) an activity by an individual (the canvasser) of soliciting the entry of 
another individual ("B") into an agreement by making oral representations 
to B during a visit by the canvasser to any place (other than a place in (b)) 
where B is, being a visit made by the canvasser for the purpose of making 
such oral representations. 
3 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)(b) a place where a business is carried on (whether on a permanent or 
temporary basis) by:
(i) the lender or owner; or
(ii) a supplier; or
(iii) the canvasser; or
(iv) a person who employs the canvasser or has appointed the 
canvasser as an agent; or
(v) B;
is excluded from (a).
Its my understanding that the sale, and resultant credit application, was completed at 
As offices/premises at the resort Mr R was visiting. And given Ive established that A 
was a registered representative of VFL at the time of the sale, I think they were 
entitled to do that. So, I cant reasonably say there was a regulatory breach in doing 
so. 
Having considered the arguments put forward by Mr R, I dont think there appears to 
be any circumstances, based upon the evidence available, that would likely lead to 
the agreement(s) being determined as null and void.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr Rs claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. Mr Rs allegation suggests the loan was provided irresponsibly. In 
particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by A or VFL.
VFL havent provided specific details of the checks they undertook. So, If I were to 
find that they hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, 
they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for 
Mr R in order to uphold his complaint here. 
At our investigators request, Mr R has provided copies of personal bank account 
statements covering periods before and after the product sale here. Ive considered 
that information carefully. Unfortunately, its not entirely clear what Mr Rs complete 
financial situation was at the time. That said, the personal bank account statements 
appear to show that the accounts were well managed with no obvious sign of 
financial difficulty or distress.
Mr R has also provided a copy of his personal credit report. But there doesnt appear 
to be anything included within it that would give any cause for concern  whether by 
way of missed or late payments or any other adverse public information.
Accepting that the amount borrowed wasnt insubstantial, I havent seen any 
evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable or unsuitable for him. And Ive not 
seen anything that supports any suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. So, 
with no other specific information about Mr Rs actual financial situation at the time 
and no supporting evidence that suggests he struggled to maintain loan repayments, 
I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for him or that he suffered loss 
as a consequence.
Summary
I acknowledge that Mr R feels very strongly that the circumstances relating to other 
similar complaints should be considered when deciding his own. While Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr R has said about these, together with the associated information and reports hes provided, much of the information is generic and not 
specific to the facts of Mr Rs own purchase or recollections. So, I ultimately dont 
think they offered much help in making factual findings about what specifically 
happened in Mr Rs case.
I do appreciate he will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive explained, I havent 
found anything that persuades me that VFLs handling and response to his claim was 
unreasonable or unfair. And for that reason, I dont currently intend to ask VFL to do 
anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VFL havent provided any additional comment or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision. However, following a request from this service, they did provide a copy of what 
they believe, was Mr Rs original claim to them.
Mr R didnt agree with my provisional findings. In doing so, he raised various objections and 
observations about aspects of my provisional findings that he felt were either wrong or 
inaccurate. I dont propose to refer to all of these. Only those comments I feel may be 
particularly relevant to my decision here. That isnt to say that Ive not considered all of Mr 
Rs comments and observations. As Ive stated above, Ive considered everything thats 
been provided in reaching my decision.
Mr R has consistently argued that I should take into consideration the circumstances, facts, 
witness statements and experience of other consumers whove had reason to complain 
about their timeshare purchases. While I understand Mr Rs stance here, I should remind 
him Im unable to decide his claim, or that of other timeshare owners. Only a court can do 
that. 
So, while I have considered the relevant laws and regulations and their impact, this service 
is only afforded powers to consider the specific facts and evidence so far as they relate 
directly to his own experience and set of circumstances. And in doing so, decide whether 
VFLs response to his claim was fair and reasonable. Im aware of the existence of other 
claims and complaints. But I dont believe the individual circumstances of others is helpful in 
establishing the facts of what actually happened in Mr Rs specific case.
Mr R has also provided a copy of his original email complaint to VFL from May 2021. I would 
like to thank him for that as I hadnt previously seen it. Having considered it, Im content that 
all the relevant points raised in that complaint have been considered in reaching my 
decision.
Mr R seeks to clarify that he didnt say VFL hadnt completed checks to ensure his loan was 
affordable. Rather that the checks were inappropriate. While Ive considered this, it doesnt 
persuade me to vary from my provisional findings. Ultimately, whether or not the checks 
completed were adequate or appropriate, I would need to see evidence that the loan was 
ultimately unaffordable or unsuitable for me to consider upholding his complaint. And more 
importantly, that VFLs checks shouldve made them aware of that. And I still havent seen 
anything that persuades me thats the case here.
Mr R has provided copies of email exchanges with VFL in which he requests copies of loan 
agreements from 2018 and 2019. However, these exchanges appear to date from around 
2022  almost three years after the purchase in 2019. Theres no evidence Mr R requested 
these immediately following the sales meeting or in the period just after completion of the 
purchase. And with no evidence to demonstrate he had any desire or intention to cancel the 
purchase or the associated loan at that time, Im not persuaded Mr R wouldve done 
anything differently, even if the loan agreements had been received.Mr R remains insistent the product was sold to him as an investment with the ability to sell 
points later on at a profit. But as Ive said in my provisional decision, I found no evidence to 
support that allegation. And despite Mr Rs response, I still havent seen anything that 
persuades me to vary from my provisional findings.
But I will address Mr Rs comments around his ability to resell points. In particular as hes 
now provided copies of exchanges he had with A and the subsequent membership 
management company on this very subject.
It appears Mr R was given the ability to list his points for sale. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest the timeshare management company (or A before them) had any contractual 
obligation to provide that service, or to provide any guarantees or warranties regarding the 
price that could be achieved or the timescales a sale could be achieved in.
Even if I were to find that the management company were obliged to offer a resale service  
and I make no such finding - I cant reasonably say that Mr R suffered any loss that VFL 
would be liable to reimburse. With no guarantees of achieving either a successful sale or 
minimum sale price, it isnt possible to establish whether a loss has actually been incurred.
Mr R has also indicated his willingness to consider a compromise over settlement of his 
claim and the related complaint. However, as I havent seen anything that persuades me to 
vary from my provisional findings, I dont think this is something Im able to consider here. 
Summary
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not persuaded to vary from the findings 
in my provisional decision. I do understand Mr Rs frustrations and strength of feeling. But 
ultimately, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask VFL to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman