DRN-2916932
The complaint
 Mr C complains Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) have made mistakes when applying 
interest and charges to his credit card account with them.
 
What happened
Mr C came to us as he was unhappy with Sainsburys response to the four complaints -that 
hes been incorrectly charged both interest and charges on this account - hes brought to 
them since March 2018.
Although four separate complaints have been made - and Final Response Letters (FRLs) 
for the first three issued - the central issue to all those complaints is the same, incorrect 
charging when hes been told they wouldnt charge him. Mr C said in August 2017 his 
personal circumstances changed and he informed Sainsburys of this. But despite this and 
ongoing contact the information hes received is contradictory and he continues to be 
charged whilst repayment plans to assist him have been in place. He also hasnt received 
compensation promised in one of the four complaints. To resolve things Mr C asked for 
Sainsburys to pay back all the interest and late fee charges incurred. Hed also like them to 
compensate him for the calls hes made.
Mr Cs also unhappy that his card expired in 2018 but he hasnt received a replacement 
even though Sainsburys tell him the account is still active. Our investigator found this was 
something Sainsburys havent had time to investigate so couldnt be considered as part of 
this complaint. 
In the first FRL on 7 March 2018 Sainsburys confirmed the account charges had been 
applied correctly and they would continue to apply until Mr C was in a position to give them 
details of his income and expenditure - which he said he wasnt at that time - so they could 
consider any payment arrangement. But they made a goodwill refund of interest from August 
2017 to January 2018. In the second FRL on 14 January 2020 they apologised for the delay 
with both setting up the payment plan and dealing the complaint. Mr C raised it in November 
2019 and it wasnt applied to the account until January 2020. And Sainsburys said theyd 
pay £50 as compensation for the delay. 
In the third FRL on 20 May 2020 Sainsburys recognized the payment plan agreed in 
January 2020 hadnt been applied to the account, instead Mr C had been charged standard 
interest and charges. They apologised and to put things right refunded all charges from 
December 2019 to March 2020 and refunded April's fees and charges for April 2020. They 
also added a three month waiver to the account which stopped interest and charges until 
July 2020, to match the plan that should have been put in place. They also offered to make 
an additional payment of £50 to the account. 
Our investigator issued two views in this matter. In both he partly upheld the complaint. He 
was unable to find Sainsburys had made an error in applying charges of interest to Mr Cs 
account both in the first three complaints where a FRL was issued and in respect of the 
fourth and final compliant. So, he wasnt going to ask them to refund charges as Mr C asked. 
In respect of the final complaint, as the statements showed no monthly payments for 
September and October 2020, he didnt think it was wrong for these to be reported as 
missed payments on Mr Cs credit file.  The investigator thought where delays or errors were 
made Sainsburys had attempted to resolve this. But, he didnt think theyd acted fairly as he 
couldnt see theyd paid the compensation of £50 from January 2020. So, to put this right, he 
recommended this compensation should be paid along with a further £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience this had caused.
Sainsburys told us their records showed the £50 compensation from January 2020 was 
marked as paid but they were unable to find any records to support this. So they agreed with 
the findings. Mr C didnt and repeated his complaint points. After the second view he asked 
for an ombudsman to re assess his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear Im not looking at the complaint about the replacement card  that will need to be 
part of a separate complaint for reasons the investigator has already explained.
Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already told Mr C. I 
think hes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with his analysis and the overall 
outcome hes recommended for these reasons: 
The underlying terms and condition Sainsburys have provided satisfy me theyre 
entitled to charge interest on this account balance, even when the account is no 
longer actively being used. 
On respect of Mr Cs change of circumstances and financial difficulties, where its 
been possible to do so, I think Sainsburys have agreed payments plans with Mr C. I 
think thats in line with their duty to act positively and sympathetically.
When they delayed or made mistakes in implementing with the payment plans, 
Sainsburys corrected them and offered fair and reasonable compensation.  
So, I think Sainsburys have done nothing wrong in applying interest and charges in 
line with those terms and conditions. Their response to Mr C when hes reported 
being in financial difficulties was appropriate as were their offers of remedial steps 
when there were delays or failures in implementing plans. And I cant see theyve 
reported the Mr Cs payment history for September and October 2020 incorrectly to 
credit reference agencies.
Overall, I think their response has been fair and reasonable. But Sainsburys didnt 
pay the compensation of £50 promised in the second FRL in January 2020. So, like 
the investigator, I think they now must do this and should also pay an additional £50 
compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Given how strongly Mr C feels about whats happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Sainsburys informally  can do for him. 
Putting things right
Sainsburys must now pay the compensation of £50 promised in the second FRL in January 
2020 along with an additional £50 compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience 
the delay in paying this has causedMy final decision
 My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay Mr C a further £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to refund £50 to his account on 14 
January 2020 as they said they would. They should also ensure that £50 compensation 
payment offered on 14 January 2020 is paid to Mr C.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman