DRN-2971155
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd made several increases to his credit limit on his Aqua 
credit card without following the rules of responsible lending. This led to him suffering 
financial hardship.
What happened
Mr S opened an Aqua credit card account with NewDay in February 2019. It was opened 
with a credit limit of £900. NewDay increased this credit limit three times within the first year, 
to £1500, £3500 and finally to £5000 in February 2020.
In October 2020 Mr S complained to NewDay that it had been irresponsible in increasing the 
credit limit too often and by too much. This had resulted in him struggling to make the 
minimum payments required causing financial and emotional hardship.
In its final response letter, NewDay didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had regularly 
reviewed his account along with how he was managing his other credit commitments. And 
that each time it had offered a credit increase it had evaluated both its records, and records 
held by credit reference agencies to ensure it felt the increase was manageable. And Mr S 
had been given the opportunity to refuse the increases if he hadnt wanted them.
Mr S didnt agree so complained to our service. Having looked at all the evidence our 
investigator didnt think that NewDay had treated him unfairly in increasing his credit limit. He 
thought the increases provided by NewDay were not irresponsible and were made after 
making reasonable creditworthiness assessments. He also thought it was unlikely that 
NewDay would have known or suspected that Mr S may be in financial difficulties, as it was 
satisfied he was managing his account well, making every payment required and not 
exceeding his credit limit.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In coming to my decision I have taken into account the regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time the credit increases were offered, and what I can see NewDay has done 
in this case and whether this was fair in Mr Ss circumstances.
I agree with the investigators view in that I do not consider the credit increases provided 
were irresponsible. I think they were offered with sufficient consideration of their affordability, 
in accordance with the rules and good practice, and that NewDay had no reason to know or 
suspect Mr S was suffering financial hardship.
The rules concerning lenders obligations when it comes to providing credit are set out in the 
FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook rules (CONC). It follows these general principles: 
A lender must carry out proportionate checks to determine whether credit (and significant 
increases to credit limits) was, as far as the lender could tell, affordable and sustainable and 
would not adversely affect the customer. A proportionate check will depend on many things, 
such as what a lender knows about the customer, size of credit, term for repayment, and 
their lending history. The detail sought while considering a rise would be expected to be 
more in-depth the more significant the increase is. 
NewDay have shared their internal process and what they bear in mind when considering 
increasing credit limits. Having examined these, I think they comply with the FCA rules 
(CONC 5.2A) which says the business must consider how the increase may adversely 
impact the customers financial situation. It should do this, as I can see NewDay did, by 
taking into account things like: 
the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase. 
the lending history of the customer and how they have previously managed their 
account. 
information obtained from a credit reference agency
In Mr Ss case, NewDay has also shown how, when considering offering the credit 
increases, this process was applied to ensure affordability.
I can see NewDay has not only looked at how Mr S managed his credit account (he had not 
missed a payment and regularly made more than the minimum payment), but has taken into 
account information shown on his credit file, his regular income, that he had no outstanding 
court judgments or debt defaults, and his level of borrowing across other lenders. I think 
these checks were reasonable in the circumstances.
I need to consider whether NewDay either knew or suspected that Mr S may be suffering 
financial hardship. Only making the minimum payments on a credit card account can be an 
indication of this, however Mr S didnt always follow this pattern - as Ive said above, he 
made payments which were considerably more than the minimum required on several 
occasions. And the balance on the account never exceeded, and regularly went significantly 
below, the credit limit.
All this information satisfies me that NewDay could not reasonably be expected to have 
known or suspected he was in financial hardship until he mentions it in his complaint in 
October 2020. 
When it comes to communicating with a customer regarding credit increases, the UK Cards 
Association best practice gives the following guidance: 
the card issuer should give 30 days notice of the increase. 
it should offer the customer the option to reject the increase in writing, online or by 
telephone.
Having looked at the customer contact notes I can see NewDay wrote to Mr S on each 
occasion it offered the credit limit increases and told him he could reject them if he wished.
Mr S has told us that he is suffering financial hardship at this time, and I can understand the 
stress that this must cause him. I would urge him to speak to NewDay if he feels he is unable to manage the debt, or to get advice from www.moneyhelper.org.uk who can provide 
impartial debt advice. 
That said, when looking at the process that NewDay followed when raising his credit limits, 
its considerations, and how it applied these to Mr Ss circumstances at that time, I cannot 
conclude NewDay acted irresponsibly.
My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman