DRN-1227040
 
The complaint
This complaints about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1996. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my 
decision, Ill just refer to AXA as the PPI seller. Ms S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was added to Ms S store card account and was intended to help protect her 
monthly repayments if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. As Ms S didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms S case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
No recording of the call in which Ms S was sold PPIs available, which is 
understandable given the time thats passed. But, in the absence of enough evidence 
to suggest otherwise, and bearing in mind the store card account had been running 
for more than two years before the PPI was added, I think it likely Ms S was aware 
she had a choice about buying the PPI and that she chose to take it before it was 
added. I can understand if she doesnt remember that now, after all this time.
I dont think AXA recommended the PPI to Ms S. So, it didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for her. But AXA should have given her the information she needed to 
decide for herself if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think she probably chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And I can see why as the PPI benefits were 
considerable and would have paid out for a significant time. On the other hand, Ms S 
cant recall what, if any, sick or redundancy pay she was entitled to in 1996, or 
whether she had any other means of making the repayments if she wasnt working. I 
also think its likely Ms S realised there was a cost for the cover.
Based on what I know of Ms S circumstances at the time, and on what I know of the 
policies AXA typically sold, it doesnt look like shed have been significantly affected 
by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it would have been useful 
to her if something went wrong. 
 Overall, I dont find that Ms S has lost out because of how AXA sold her the PPI. I realise 
how strongly Ms S feels about her complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman