DRN-3481777
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy National Westminster Bank PLC ( NatWest) declined to process a £300,000 
payment until he visited a second branch with a different form of identification. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The key facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers 
accounts safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. They have developed 
sophisticated systems and procedures to help them do so. Sometimes they block 
legitimate payments that a customer wants to take place. They can also ask 
customers to provide additional documentation if they remain concerned. This can 
cause distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean 
theyve acted incorrectly. Their terms and conditions also allow for security 
procedures of this nature to take place.
I understand the reasons Mr S was frustrated he couldnt make the payment when he 
visited the first branch. Hed gone out of his way to complete the visit and was happy 
the transaction was genuine. Hes also explained that due to his career, he has a 
good understanding of the financial industry and therefore doesnt think hed fall 
victim to a scam. The second branch also processed the transaction after he 
provided his passport instead of his driving licence.
However, I wouldnt expect a bank to treat their customers differently based on their 
careers. As mentioned above, they take protecting their customers accounts and 
money very seriously. Due to the size of the transaction, the potential loss to Mr S 
would have been significant had it not been genuine. So, I think it was reasonable for 
the first branch to be cautious and ask questions to try and protect Mr Ss account.
NatWest have explained that when the first branch staff carried out their security 
checks, based on the details Mr S gave them, the name of the business receiving the 
money and their own research, they werent prepared to complete the transaction 
unless further information was provided. Specifically, they wanted to see additional 
evidence he was sending the money to a genuine investment company. I understand 
why Mr S believes the branch staff were overzealous, this is especially because a 
different branch agreed to complete the transaction later the same day. However, as 
their decision was ultimately made to protect Mr S, and the money in his account, I 
dont think they acted unreasonably by requesting further information. Ive also seen 
no evidence which suggest this decision was based on anything other than genuine 
security concerns.
That said, the DVLAs website explains that any driving licence that expired between 
1 February and 31 December 2020 were automatically extended for 11 months from 
the expiry date. Its my understanding that Mr Ss licence expired during that 
timeframe. So, while I note the branch manager followed company guidance and said 
she couldnt accept the licence as a valid form of identification. I dont think she 
should reasonably have done so on the basis that it had expired.
As NatWest have now offered to pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused him, I think this is a fair resolution to the complaint. 
I know Mr S feels strongly that this isnt good enough. However, having carefully 
considered everything thats happened, and the timeframe involved, I see no 
reasonable grounds for directing NatWest to do anything more. I dont agree that a 
personal apology would be appropriate from the branch staff, and our service doesnt 
punish or regulate banks either. As Mr S was able to make the payment later the 
same day, this also suggests he didnt experience a financial loss. 
Lastly, Mr S has said hes unhappy the staff in the first branch threatened to call the 
police. Based on the camera footage hes provided, I dont think this was 
unreasonable as while the conversation was tense on both sides, it suggests he was 
asked to leave on a few occasions and didnt do so. I also wouldnt reasonably 
expect branch staff to continue a conversation once it is no longer productive. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc have offered Mr S £100 compensation to resolve this 
complaint. I think this amount is fair and reasonable. So, I direct them to pay Mr S £100 
compensation  if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman