DRN-4302197
The complaint
Mr P and Miss S complain about a chargeback claim they raised through Nationwide 
Building Society, who Ill call Nationwide.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P and Miss S, but I dont think Nationwide have been 
unreasonable here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as was the case 
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim. A chargeback isnt a legal right and 
Nationwide didnt have to raise one, but Id think it reasonable for them to do so where there 
was a reasonable chance of success.
The chargeback claim isnt administered by Nationwide, it is the chargeback administrators 
(VISA in this instance) that set the rules.
I dont think Nationwide were unreasonable not to pursue the claim any further when the 
merchant defended it. I say that because the merchant provided evidence that the goods 
were delivered and that the weight was as expected. Mr P and Miss S hadnt provided any 
evidence of tampering, and while I understand their assertion that the box didnt contain the 
items they required, and that theyve never been provided, I think the evidence provided by 
the merchant was stronger.
Nationwide did provide some compensation to Mr P and Miss S in respect of the mistakes 
they said theyd made in processing their chargeback. In the circumstances, I think the £25 
offered was reasonable and, ultimately, Im not asking Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr P and 
Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman