DRN-2791897
The complaint
Mr M complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) have unfairly turned down his claim under 
his travel insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as IPA are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr M was on holiday on 4 March 2020 when unfortunately, he was robbed. All of his claim 
was paid, except for his claim for a phone. Mr M said he sent IPA all the paperwork on two 
occasions and both times was told itd been lost. He said after months IPA found the 
paperwork, but then said they wouldnt pay the claim because they needed proof of usage  
specifically to show itd been connected to his network provider. Mr M said he had another 
phone for that, and the stolen phone was only used on the internet while he was abroad. So, 
unhappy his claim wasnt being met, he complained. 
IPA replied on 21 October 2020 and provided a history of the claim as part of their response 
to the complaint. They said Mr M had registered his claim on 9 March 2020 and asked him to 
email documents. Mr M said he couldnt email them, so he wanted to post them. IPA said 
they didnt receive anything from Mr M so on 3 April 2020 contacted him and asked for the 
paperwork. Mr M said hed sent the paperwork by recorded delivery on 11 March 2020  but 
IPA couldnt locate them despite him providing the tracking number. 
After spending some time looking on 5 May 2020 IPA called Mr M to say they couldnt find 
the paperwork, and during this call explained they needed the phone to be blacklisted before 
they could proceed with the claim. Mr M said during the call he didnt know the IMEI number 
(which would be needed to blacklist the phone), and in a follow up email on 7 June 2020 
hed told them the phone was stolen with the box so he couldnt get it. He added the phone 
was bought new from a private seller and was only used for the internet while he was 
abroad.
IPA replied asking for confirmation of where Mr M had bought the phone from, and he 
explained it was bought new from a private seller. The seller came to his house, and he paid 
cash for the phone. IPA asked for a receipt  which Mr M then posted along with his other 
paperwork again. This time IPA did receive the documents and said it was end of July when 
they got them. 
IPA said on receipt of the documents theyd emailed Mr M to say they couldnt accept a 
handwritten receipt and the document didnt confirm where the phone was bought originally. 
IPA told Mr M they still needed proof of usage from his network provider, and none of the 
documents theyd been given confirmed the IMEI number as they needed.
Mr M replied to reiterate hed given them a receipt which does show where he bought the 
phone from and that it was only used for the internet while abroad. 
IPA replied to this, quoting a policy term that said proof of usage needs to be provided, and 
as they said Mr M hadnt provided proof of usage, theyd turned down his claim. 
Later on, IPA said Mr M got in touch registering a complaint, and they said in this response 
they thought the claim had been turned down fairly. As well as referring to the proof of usage 
term, they also explained the claim wouldnt be met because the phone was bought second 
hand which was excluded in the policy terms. So although Mr M said hed bought the phone 
new from a private seller, that seller had to buy the phone first, so it was a second-hand 
phone as far as they were concerned. Because of that, they didnt uphold Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and didnt uphold his 
complaint. In summary, he felt IPA had applied the terms of the policy correctly, so had fairly 
turned down Mr Ms claim.
But Mr M didnt accept that, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say how sorry I am for Mr Ms experience. Its clear from reading the 
information hes provided it was very unpleasant for him.
I do though think its important to explain I can only require IPA to settle Mr Ms claim if I 
think they should do so under the terms of the policy  or if theyve done something wrong to 
lead to a loss for Mr M. And, while I understand Mr M will be disappointed, I wont be telling 
IPA to meet his claim.
IPA have relied primarily on the policy terms for proof of usage in turning down the claim and 
have also said theyd class the phone as second-hand which would be excluded. 
IPAs terms do say that they wont meet any claims when proof of usage cant be provided. 
And these terms explain proof of usage for a mobile phone can be provided by the network 
provider.
But Mr M has said he never put a SIM card in to his phone  meaning it was never 
connected to the network provider. So, he cant provide evidence this way.
Another way potentially would have been to provide the IMEI number, so IPA had 
confirmation the phone itself was effectively cancelled. But Mr M cant provide that 
information either.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration  because the policy terms dont say you have to 
connect your phone to a network in order for them to meet a claim. But from my review I do 
think IPA have been clear in asking for information to satisfy themselves they should meet 
Mr Ms claim. But Mr M hasnt been able to provide due to the way he used the phone and 
how it was bought. I think thats unfortunate for Mr M, but I cant hold IPA responsible for 
that. Because of that, I think IPA have acted fairly in applying this term to turn down Mr Ms 
claim.I can understand why Mr M would also think his phone should have been classed as new. 
As he bought it new as far as hes concerned and provided proof of ownership from the 
private sale. IPA have said because Mr M bought the phone from a private seller then it must 
have been purchased before by that person  therefore its a second-hand phone. I can see 
both points of view, but as I dont think the complaint should be upheld on the proof of usage 
element of the policy, I dont need to decide this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman