The complaint
Mr I complain National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund a disputed transaction.  He also 
complains it blocked a payment from leaving his account and that it allowed his three debit 
cards to be compromised.
What happened
Mr I complained about some transactions on his account made in October 2019.  He first 
became aware of them when he tried to withdraw some money from an ATM and realised 
there were no available funds  including his overdraft.
NatWest investigated his complaint about the disputed transactions  and then Mr I further 
complained when he tried to transfer money out of his NatWest account into another account 
he held with another bank.  Mr I was required to attend a branch with identity in order to 
confirm he was authorising the transfer.
Mr I then complained about the security of his card and account.  He said this was the third 
debit card he had been sent by NatWest which had been compromised.  On two previous 
occasions, NatWest had contacted him to query some transactions.  Mr I had said he hadnt 
made them  so on both occasions, the transactions were refunded, and Mr Is cards had 
been cancelled and replaced.  He said this was a fault on the part of NatWest as he had 
never compromised his security details.
In its final response to Mr I, NatWest said it was holding him liable for the transactions and it 
said it was allowed to apply the block as a fraud prevention measure.  
By the time Mr I brought his complaint to this service, the retailers involved in the disputed 
transactions had refunded all but one transaction  amounting to £52.12.  Mr I said this last 
payment could not be refunded because he had since closed his NatWest account.  
NatWest was unable to assist in how else the refund could be provided.
Our investigator didnt think she could ask NatWest to do anymore.  She thought the 
evidence suggested Mr I had consented to the transactions.  She also explained how the 
terms and conditions of Mr Is account allowed NatWest to place a block on transactions in 
some circumstances.
Mr I made further submissions and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  In summary he 
said there must be a fault in NatWests systems because he had not allowed his card to be 
used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1886690reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
disputed transactions
I know Mr I is now only owed a refund from one of the disputed transactions.  In the first 
instance, if that is due back to him from the retailer, then the onus is on the retailer to enable 
that payment.  I dont think NatWest can be said to have behaved unfairly in not being able 
to assist  especially as Mr Is account is now closed.
Turning to NatWests liability for the payment, it is only obliged to refund Mr I if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he did not authorise it.  NatWest needs to show the 
payment was authenticated as well as Mr I consenting to the payment.
From the evidence I have seen, the payment was authenticated  in that Mr Is card details 
were used to make the payment.  I therefore need to decide whether, on balance, I think he 
consented to them too  and I think that he did.
All three cards were issued to Mr I at his home address.  Mr I received all three and 
confirmed he lives alone.  There was no evidence (provided by Mr I) that the cards had been 
tampered with before he opened them.
Mr I says he has never shared his card or details with anyone else and so it must be 
NatWest who is at fault is allowing his cards to become compromised.
But that cant be right  that he has not shared his card with anyone and yet three separate 
cards have been used by fraudsters.  I cant make a finding on cards one and two as that is 
not a complaint before me  but I need to decide whether NatWest has been fair and 
reasonable in refusing to refund this disputed transaction on card three.
Based on the circumstances of the case, I have seen nothing to suggest it has been 
unreasonable in its response.  I think its more likely than not that Mr I has consented to 
these payments in that he has made them himself or has allowed someone else to make 
them. They were carried out over a four-day period and at different times during the day.  I 
think its more likely a fraudster would have used up the funds in Mr Is account as soon as 
they had access to it.
For those reasons, I dont think Mr Is account is a plausible one.
And whilst I note that most of the payments have been refunded  I have seen no 
explanation or basis for this.
block on transfer
I can see the investigator has referred Mr I to the relevant section in the terms and 
conditions of his account which allow NatWest to place a block in certain circumstances.  Mr 
Is submissions in response to the investigators view appear to accept her comments on this 
point so I will take it no further other than to re-iterate what has already been said.  In certain 
circumstances, as a fraud prevention method, NatWest is entitled to block transactions until 
they are verified by the account holder.  In the circumstances of Mr Is case, I would expect 
NatWest to monitor his account in order to safeguard his money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman