DRN-2733452
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Stonebridge International Insurance Ltds decision to decline his 
claim under his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K was employed as a diver. He took out a personal accident insurance policy with 
Stonebridge. The policy, subject to certain conditions and exclusions, would pay a benefit of 
£350 for every day that Mr K were to spend in hospital as a result of an accident.
In February 2013, Mr K was working offshore as a diver when he began suffering from pain 
in his lower back and hip. His employer arranged for him to receive pain-killing injections. 
Mr K was later found to have developed septicaemia. He was admitted to hospital on 
3 March 2013 and was found to have suffered an epidural abscess.
While he was in hospital, Mr K made a claim to Stonebridge.
In June 2013, Stonebridge declined the claim on the grounds that, based on the information 
available, Mr K had been hospitalised as a result of a medical condition and not because of 
an accident.
Following Stonebridges declinature, Mr K stopped paying for the policy and his cover 
therefore ended on 8 July 2013.
On 30 July 2013, Mr K was discharged from hospital.
Mr K later complained to Stonebridge about its decision. He provided a report produced in 
October 2013 by Dr R, a consultant physician and rheumatologist. Dr R concluded that on, 
the balance of probabilities, the source of infection resulting in the epidural abscess was the 
injection site. This was based on the fact that a yellow head could be observed at the 
injection spot indicating an infection at this site, and also the time course of events. He said 
he thought it was less likely that lesions on Mr Ks left lower leg were the source of infection 
because the descriptor terms did not suggest that these lesions were infected and 
furthermore this site wasnt mentioned in the hospital bacteriology sheet.
Stonebridge wouldnt change its decision. It said the injections had been required to treat hip 
pain and there was no evidence to show this pain was caused by an accident. It said that the 
cause of the infection and subsequent epidural abscess was therefore medical treatment of 
a disease for which no cover was available under the policy. It furthermore said the incident 
and subsequent injury occurred while Mr K was working as a commercial diver and 
participating in a dangerous pursuit requiring the use of artificial breathing apparatus. It said 
that the policy had relevant exclusions which would apply in these circumstances which was 
an additional reason for declining the claim.
Mr K was unhappy at Stonebridges decision. He referred his complaint to us.
In April 2016, our investigator issued a view recommending that the complaint should not be 
upheld. The investigator was satisfied that Stonebridge had acted fairly in declining the 
claim.
Mr K did not challenge our investigators findings and our file was closed.
In February 2019, Mr K obtained a report from Dr C, a consultant microbiologist. Dr C 
concluded it was likely that the epidural abscess was the cause of the pain symptoms which 
Mr K experienced in February 2013 and that on the balance of probability the original source 
of infection which led to this was a lesion which Mr K sustained to his lower left leg over two 
weeks earlier when he bumped it against a bolt on the bed in his hotel bedroom.
In August 2019, Mr K submitted Dr Cs report to Stonebridge and asked it to reconsider his 
claim.
Stonebridge continued to decline Mr Ks claim. It pointed out that Dr Cs opinion was 
contrary to that of Dr R who had concluded it was the injection site, rather than the lesion on 
Mr Ks left lower leg, which was the most likely source of the infection. It further pointed out 
that the medical documentation contained no evidence of a lesion sustained in a hotel in 
February 2013 and that Mr K himself had advised that the incident happened while he was 
working as a diver. It therefore considered that Mr K hadnt shown his claim was eligible.
Mr K again referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
After weighing up all the evidence, I consider it was fair for Stonebridge to decline the claim. 
I recognise this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr K who clearly suffered from a 
serious condition which has had a significant and lasting impact. I extend my sympathies to 
Mr K but unfortunately for him I dont consider his claim is eligible under the policy. I shall 
explain why.
The policy states:
We will pay [benefit] for each day a Covered Person is Confined to a Hospital for at 
least twenty-four (24) consecutive hours due to a covered Injury.
The policy defines an injury as:
bodily injury that occurs from a Covered Accident resulting directly from external, 
violent and visible means and is independent of all other causes, while the insurance 
is in force.
The policy defines a covered accident as:
a sudden, unforeseen, and fortuitous event that occurs while the insurance is in 
force and requires Hospital Confinement.
The policy further states:
No benefit shall be paid for Injury that:
 Is due to disease Occurs while the Covered Person is working as a  commercial diver
I am minded to accept on the basis of the available evidence that Mr K suffered the injury to 
his leg as he described and that furthermore this was what led to the infection which in turn 
led to the epidural abscess. However, I dont propose going into this evidence in detail. This 
is because, even if this was the process by which the epidural abscess developed, and even 
assuming that the fact his symptoms manifested themselves while he was on a dive had no 
impact on the development of his condition, I would still say it was fair for Stonebridge to 
decline the claim.
This is because the policy states quite clearly that cover is for hospitalisation due to 
accidental injury independent of all other causes. The accidental injury suffered by Mr K was 
trivial and did not require hospitalisation. He was in hospital not for the treatment of his injury 
but for treatment of the infection and the epidural abscess caused by the infection. The 
infection is a disease and hospitalisation due to the infection is therefore excluded from 
cover.
I recognise that if it were not for the accidental injury, there would have been no infection. 
I have given careful consideration to whether the line of causation should mean the claim is 
payable but in the end have concluded that it does not. I consider that the policy was not 
designed to pay benefit in this type of situation, particularly given that the injury itself was so 
trivial and the time lag between the injury and the need for hospitalisation was over two 
weeks. The explanation of cover and the policy exclusions are clear and in these 
circumstances I dont find that Stonebridge International Insurance Ltd has treated Mr K 
unfairly in declining his claim.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr K didnt accept my provisional decision. He provided further evidence and argument to 
support that the injury to his left lower leg was the source of the infection. Mr K considered 
that this injury was an accidental bodily injury and while there was a time lag before this led 
to him needing hospitalisation he didnt see why this should cause his claim to be ineligible. 
He disputed that the injury was trivial. He furthermore disputed that the infection should be 
seen as a disease and said that this argument hadnt been raised by Stonebridge. He said 
the accident was the trigger for the infection and so his claim should be regarded as eligible. 
He referred to an ombudsmans decision on another case which he considered supported 
his position.
Stonebridge accepted my provisional decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has provided further evidence to support that the injury to his left lower leg was the 
source of the infection. However, Ive already accepted that this was likely the case. He has 
also questioned my description of the injury as trivial. I should clarify that I mean it was 
relatively trivial in that, were it not for the infection, it would not have required expert medical 
attention. And this is the crux of the complaint. The need for hospitalisation was due, not to 
the injury itself, but to the infection arising from the injury. 
Mr K says that Stonebridge hadnt raised this as an issue. I agree that Stonebridge primarily 
raised other grounds for declining the claim but it has also consistently referred to the policys exclusion for hospitalisation due to disease and in its arguments to us has pointed 
out that the injury itself did not require hospital treatment.
I remain of the view that the infection was a disease, albeit it stemmed from the injury. And 
while I accept that the policy does not put a time limit on the period between the accidental 
injury occurring and hospitalisation, it does say that benefit is payable only if the injury leads 
to hospitalisation independent of other causes and is not payable if the hospitalisation is due 
to disease. I consider that Mr Ks hospitalisation was due to the infection, a disease, rather 
than due entirely to the injury. On this basis, I consider it was reasonable for Stonebridge to 
decline the claim.
Mr K has referred to a decision by an ombudsman on another case. This other case 
concerned a claim under a personal accident insurance policy when the consumer became 
paralysed fairly suddenly due to the triggering of a previously undetected congenital 
abnormality. The ombudsman ruled that the insurer should accept the consumers claim 
even though there had been no accident in the ordinary, everyday sense. I have considered 
this earlier decision but it doesnt cause me to change my mind on Mr Ks complaint. I dont 
consider that the circumstances of the two complaints are the same and in the end each 
case is judged on its own merits, bearing in mind the wording of the particular policy.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr K, I consider it was fair for Stonebridge to decline his 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman