DRN-3634555
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has declined a claim made under 
his laptop breakdown and accidental damage insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E has an insurance policy with D&G which covers mechanical and electrical breakdown, 
and accidental damage. In February 2022 Mr Es laptop wouldnt turn on, so he contacted 
D&G to make a claim.
The laptop was inspected by D&Gs specialist. They concluded there was a fault with the 
battery, which wasnt covered under Mr Es policy, so his laptop was returned to him.
Shortly after, Mr E contacted D&G about the issue. He also mentioned the camera and 
microphone werent working either. The laptop was again taken in for an inspection. The 
battery was again determined to have a fault, which wasnt covered under the policy, and the 
specialist said the camera and microphone were working. Mr E subsequently paid to have 
the battery replaced.
Mr E was unhappy with D&G declining his claim and he approached this service. Mr E would 
like D&G to cover the laptop repairs and refund the insurance premiums hes paid.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold it. The investigator 
said there were no issues with the microphone or camera identified, and battery faults were 
excluded under the terms of Mr Es policy.
Mr E didnt agree an asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that during both inspections, D&Gs specialist determined there was a fault with 
the battery, and this was the reason that the laptop wouldnt turn on. However, Mr Es policy 
terms explain:
Exclusions
We shall not be liable for:
The cost of replacing any consumables (such asbatteries, rechargeable batteries, 
power cells)
Therefore, faults or issues with the battery arent covered under the terms of Mr Es policy. 
So, on this basis, I dont think D&G have acted unfairly by declining the battery part of Mr Es 
claim. Whilst I recognise Mr E disputes the battery is external, as you need a screwdriver to 
remove it, the policy terms above explain that batteries, more generally, arent covered.
Mr E also reported that the camera and microphone werent working. However, D&Gs 
specialist confirmed they were working when the laptop was inspected. They said there was 
no hardware fault. And software issues arent covered under Mr Es policy. Therefore, as this 
was inspected and checked to be working, and the policy doesnt cover software issues, I 
dont think D&G have acted unfairly in the circumstances.
Mr E has said he may obtain an independent inspection report on his laptop. If he chooses 
to do so, he should send the report to D&G for consideration in the first instance. But at this 
stage, based on what Ive seen, I dont think D&G have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances. 
As I havent concluded D&G has acted unfairly, and Mr E has a policy with D&G which he 
could claim under if an insured event occurs, Im not going to direct D&G to return the 
premiums hes paid for the policy.
I also note that Mr E wanted to receive technical assistance with his laptop. But on a 
previous occasion, the department he called and the person he spoke to was unable to 
provide this, as they could only arrange for the laptop to be sent off for repair (but Mr E didnt 
want that to happen), or pass him onto the manufacturer. 
Mr Es policy terms have a separate section in the policy documents outlining the cover 
available for tech support. Therefore, if Mr E needs future tech support he may wish to call 
the number in his policy and choose the option for tech support rather than repairs, and they 
may be able to assist him further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman