DRN-3936077
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr T applied for a loan with Lendable. The amount of the loan was £6500 
repayable over a term on 60 months, with monthly repayments of around £201.
Mr T complains that Lendable lent to him irresponsibly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said the checks carried out by Lendable 
were reasonable and proportionate and that there was no indication that Mr T wouldnt be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
Mr T didnt agree. He said his income was variable because of overtime and performance 
related bonus and said that affordability should have been assessed on his basic income. Mr 
T said he was responsible for all of the mortgage payment and that the payments on his 
credit was higher than the figure used in the affordability assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out on our website. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ts complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr T could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. The checks could take into 
account a number of things, such as the amount being lent, the length of the agreement, the 
frequency and amount of repayment, the total amount repayable and what Lendable knew 
about Mr T at the time he applied for the loan.
When Mr T applied for the loan, he stated that his monthly income was £1518. Lendable 
verified this income using a credit bureau tool to check that the amount stated by Mr 
matched the income paid into his bank account. 
This service was provided with Mr Ts bank statements for the period prior to the loan 
application. The bank statements showed that Mr T was paid £1722 in September 2020, 
£1672 in October 2020 and £1481 in November 2020. The amounts paid into Mr Ts bank 
account were broadly in line with the income he declared at the point of application. 
As part of its checks, Lendable looked at Mr Ts monthly expenditure. It took into account Mr 
Ts mortgage payment and carried out a credit search, which showed that Mr T had a credit 
card, two unsecured loans and a car finance agreement. 
These checks showed that Mr T had a balance of around £1900 on his credit card and 
around £4494 on the loans. The monthly repayments on the loans and car finance totalled 
around £340. Lendable calculated that Mr Ts monthly credit card payment (based on a 3% 
minimum monthly payment) was around £57 per month.
Lendable also looked at Mr Ts credit report. It found no missed payments or arrears and no 
recent defaults or CCJs.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Lendable were reasonable and 
proportionate. I cant see anything in the information gathered by Lendable which wouldve 
given cause for concern or warranted further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. In doing so, Ive thought 
about whether the information gathered by Lendable showed any risk that Mr T was 
experiencing financial difficulties or that he was unlikely to be able to afford the loan. Ive 
also taken into account what Mr T has said about his credit card payment being more than 
the sum estimated by Lendable. Having considered all of the information, and taking into 
account what Mr T has said, I still think Mr T had sufficient monthly disposable income to 
sustainably repay the loan. I dont think Lendable did anything wrong when it lent to Mr T. 
I understand that Mr T wants Lendable to allow him to repay the loan at £40 per month. This 
is less than the contractual monthly payment. Where a customer is experiencing financial 
difficulties, Id expect a lender to treat them positively and sympathetically. However, Im 
unable to require Lendable to accept a lower payment. And Im unable to ask Lendable not 
to report the arrears on Mt Ts credit file, because the business is under an obligation to 
accurately report a customers account.
In conclusion, and for the reasons Ive explained above, I think the checks carried out by 
Lendable were reasonable and proportionate and I dont think it lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman