DRN-2313122
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds bank PLC closed his account and logged information about him with 
CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service. 
What happened
Mr K had an account with Lloyds. Mr K hadnt used the account much. But in May 2019, an 
international payment of £10,100 was paid into the account. Mr K transferred £5,000 onto a 
currency card, for a holiday he said he planned to take. But when he went into branch to 
take out the remaining £5,100 Lloyds blocked his account. 
Lloyds contacted the sending bank. It said its customer had been the victim of fraud and 
hadnt authorised the payment to Mr K. Lloyds investigated what had happened and asked 
Mr K for information about the payment of £10,100.
Mr K initially told bank the payment was from his international business account. He then 
explained that payment was for a mini excavator hed sold on line to a company based in 
Poland. He said he and his brother in law were doing their drives and thought it would be 
cheaper to buy a mini digger rather than hire one. So, he bought a mini excavator in 2017 for 
£10,650 to use. 
Mr K told the bank that hed taken pictures of the excavator and posted an advert on a well-
known online shopping/selling site. Mr K says he was contacted by a man, who I will refer Ill 
refer to as Mr N, called him about the advert, they exchanged messages and agreed a sale. 
He says Mr N then came to his address with a loader to collect the machine. And he handed 
over all the paperwork relating to the excavator. Mr K told the bank he was able to provide 
the bank with evidence to support everything hed said about the transaction. But he never 
did. 
Lloyds didnt accept Mr Ks explanation and gave him notice that it would close his account. 
It also logged information about Mr K with CIFAS. Unhappy with this response, Mr K brought 
his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
The investigator asked Mr K for some more information about the sale and for evidence that 
hed actually owned and then sold a mini excavator. Mr K told the investigator that he 
couldnt remember where hed bought the machine from, but thought it was from a friend and 
he d paid cash. He couldnt provide any invoice or bank statement showing the payment or 
purchase.
 
The investigator asked Mr K about the advert he said hed placed to sell the excavator. Mr K 
said he had used pictures hed taken of the excavator in the advert. And that he no longer 
had any messages, emails or text message between him and Mr N. He said he hadnt 
reported anything to the police or the online website. And that he was now only concerned 
with getting the CIFAS marker removed. 
The investigator thought that Lloyds had been justified in taking the action that it did when it 
logged information about Mr K with CIFAS, blocked and closed his account. On balance, she 
considered Mr K hadnt shown he had sold any machinery. Mr K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied first of all that the money Mr K received was transferred as a result of a fraud or 
scam on the holder of the account from which it was sent. But that doesnt mean it was 
appropriate for Lloyds to place a CIFAS marker against Mr K. The bank needed to have a 
reasonable belief the matter could be reported to the police. A suspicion or concern isnt 
enough. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had and the investigation it carried out and what the rules say about applying 
such markers.
Having looked at all the evidence Lloyds has provided and reviewed what Mr K has said 
about what happened, Im satisfied that the bank had enough evidence to record a CIFAS 
marker against him.  I say this for the following reasons:
Lloyds has evidence that the credit of £10,100 received into Mr Ks account on 
22 May 2019 was fraudulent.
When Lloyds first spoke to Mr K about the payment, he told the bank that it was a 
payment he was expecting from his international business account.
It was only when the bank challenged Mr K that he said hed sold some plant 
machinery and the payment related to the sale.
The paperwork Mr K subsequently provided which includes an invoice from a Polish 
company does not show that any goods were actually supplied by Mr K.
Mr K hasnt been able to provide any proof that he bought or owned a mini excavator 
such as a receipt, invoice or insurance certificate as well as a bank statement 
showing the initial purchase payment being made despite being asked to do at the 
time by Lloyds and more recently by the investigator.
Mr K cant recall exactly where or from who he bought the excavator, which given the 
cost and nature of the item I think its unlikely that Mr K wouldnt remember such an 
unusual transaction in detail.
The image used in the online advert Mr K says he placed to sell the excavator is 
actually taken from an unrelated business website (dated 2018) which sells plant 
machinery and isnt a photo taken by Mr K as he told the investigator.
Mr K has been unable to provide any evidence of correspondence between him and 
the alleged buyer of the excavator, Mr N, such as arranging payment and pick up of 
the machine.
Mr K hasnt reported the matter to the police or the online sales platform, which I 
dont think would be an unreasonable course of action to take given Mr K says he 
sold an expensive piece of equipment and received only half of the money he was 
expecting.
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Lloyds was justified in placing a CIFAS 
marker against Mr K. I believe too that there is a strong possibility that he knew or suspected 
that the funds were not legitimate and that he knows rather more about the £10,100 than he 
is prepared to us or Lloyds. Having looked at all the evidence, Im also satisfied that Lloyds was within its rights to review 
Mr Ks account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
Lloyds was entitled to close Mr Ks account at any time on giving two months notice. I can 
see Lloyds wrote to Mr K on 24 May 2019 to let him know it would be closing his account in 
60 days. So, I cant say Lloyds has treated Mr K unfairly when it closed his account. 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, I simply dont find Mr Ks explanation plausible. 
And Im satisfied that Lloyds met the burden to proof required in placing the CIFAS marker 
against Mr K. On that basis, Im not going to ask Lloyds to remove the marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman