DRN-2497811
The complaint
Miss C has complained about Unum Ltds handling of a claim she made under her 
employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C was a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
Unum. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay benefit if Miss C was 
prevented from performing her occupation due to illness or injury.
In February 2018, Miss C stopped working due to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 
This was due to the emergence during psychotherapy of memories of childhood trauma 
which had previously been suppressed.
She remained off work and her employer made a claim under the policy on her behalf.
Unum decided it needed more information to make a decision on the claim. It arranged for 
Miss C in December 2018 to undergo an independent medical examination (IME) with Dr B, 
a consultant psychiatrist.
In March 2019, having received Dr Bs report, Unum declined the claim. It accepted that 
Miss C was experiencing symptoms which were increased in the days following each 
treatment session she was undergoing with her psychotherapist. However, it considered 
there was no medical evidence to support that she was experiencing functional impairment 
that would require prolonged absence from the workplace.
In June 2019, Miss C complained to Unum about its decision and the way it handled her 
claim.
In September 2019, Unum issued a final response letter in which it reversed its decision and 
agreed to accept the claim. It offered £250 compensation for any trouble and upset caused 
by it not accepting the claim initially.
Miss C was unhappy at Unums response and offer of compensation. She referred her 
complaint to us. She also raised concerns that Unums delay in accepting her claim had 
meant shed ended up paying more in tax, and that Unum hadnt always conducted its 
communication through her representative as she had requested. 
Our investigator issued a view upholding the complaint. She considered that Unum should 
have accepted the claim initially. She considered its failure to do so, and the resultant delay 
in Miss C receiving benefit (exacerbated by avoidable delays in Unums claims handling), 
had had a significant adverse effect on Miss Cs mental health. She therefore recommended 
that Unum should pay Miss C £2,000 in compensation (in other words, £1,750 on top of the 
£250 it had already offered). She also recommended that Unum should compensate Miss C 
for the extra tax shed had to pay as a result of the delay in acceptance of her claim. 
However, the investigator considered that Unums claim handling had not been at fault in 
other ways as suggested by Miss C. 
Miss C didnt accept the investigators findings. She reiterated some of the concerns she had 
raised about how she felt Unum had failed to comply with various regulations and thus had 
treated her unfairly. She considered this had caused an extreme and long-term impact which 
warranted higher compensation. She also drew attention to the financial distress which had 
been caused by Unums late acceptance of her claim.
Unum also didnt accept the investigators findings. It considered that the £2,000 
compensation was excessive given the circumstances of the case. It pointed out that one 
reason for the delay in Miss C receiving benefit was because she waited three months 
before submitting an appeal/complaint against the decision to decline the claim.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has now accepted the claim. It acknowledged that it should have accepted the claim 
initially but it has suggested that this simply shows its appeal system operated successfully.
If Miss C had appealed and provided additional evidence which on review caused Unum to 
reverse its decision to decline the claim, I would agree that this showed a properly operating 
appeal system. In this case, however, Unum reversed its decision on the basis of the 
evidence which had previously been available. I consider this simply shows the original 
decision was wrong.
Furthermore, I consider that Unum had virtually no grounds for coming to its original 
decision. I agree it was reasonable for Unum, having looked at the available evidence, to ask 
Miss C to undergo the IME with Dr B. However, Dr Bs report concluded very clearly that 
Miss C was unfit to work due to her symptoms of PTSD. Unum didnt accept this and asked 
Dr B further questions. I consider that his answers reinforced what he had said in his initial 
report. Yet Unum still disregarded his opinion in favour of the opinion of its company medical 
officer even though he had never met Miss C. This calls into question why it bothered 
arranging the IME in the first place.
Unums unfair decision to decline the claim would have been upsetting to any claimant. But 
in this case, Miss C was in an extremely vulnerable state as she was dealing with 
suppressed memories of childhood trauma. Her treating psychotherapist said that the 
declinature of the claim led to a significant deterioration in her mental and physical health. 
Her treatment had to be placed on hold and she self-harmed for the first time in many years. 
I consider that this would not have happened if Unum had dealt with her claim fairly.
There were also certain avoidable delays in Unums assessment of the claim which 
contributed towards the extended period for which she was forced to go without any income. 
It was thirteen months beyond the end of the deferred period before Unum eventually 
accepted her claim. While I acknowledge that Miss C also contributed towards this by taking 
three months to lodge an appeal against Unums decision, I nonetheless consider that the 
primary fault lay with Unum. And I consider the financial pressure of having no income for 
such a long time would have added to Miss Cs distress.
After taking everything into account, particularly the harm caused to Miss Cs mental health, 
I consider that the £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience offered by Unum was 
insufficient and it should increase this to £2,000.Miss C has provided evidence from an accountant confirming that Unums late acceptance 
of her claim resulted in her paying a net additional amount of £3,883 in tax and national 
insurance over the tax years 2018/19 and 2019/20. I consider that since it is Unums fault 
that she incurred this extra cost, it should compensate her accordingly, with interest. I further 
consider it should compensate her for the cost of employing the accountant to do the 
calculation, plus interest. Im satisfied, given that Unum has now accepted the claim and 
paid outstanding benefit plus interest, that this is adequate compensation for any financial 
loss suffered by Miss C. 
Mis C has raised various other points about Unums claim handling. I have explained above 
how I consider that Unum was wrong to decline Miss Cs claim and what it needs to do to 
compensate her for its failing. However, I dont consider that it was otherwise at fault in the 
way it handled her claim. In particular, I consider that it made adequate effort to conduct 
communication through Miss Cs representative where possible. I also consider that Unum is 
entitled to review the claim on a periodic basis to ensure that Miss C is still eligible to receive 
benefit.
Miss C has gone into great detail about how she believes Unum failed to comply with various 
regulations. We are an informal complaints resolution body, not a financial regulator. Im 
satisfied that I have adequately addressed Miss Cs complaint in this decision. I therefore 
dont propose to address all of her other points in detail. If Miss C considers that Unum is in 
breach of regulations, she may of course raise this with the appropriate regulator.
Miss C made a further complaint to Unum in January 2020 about the way it handled a review 
of her claim. Unum issued a final response to that complaint in March 2020. The investigator 
didnt consider this further complaint in her investigation and so I havent done so either in 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Unum Ltd to do the following:
pay Miss C £2,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience (it may deduct the £250 
it previously offered if this has already been paid);
pay Miss C £3,883 in compensation for the extra tax and national insurance costs she 
incurred and add interest to this sum at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the 
date she paid her 2019/20 tax and national insurance to the date of settlement;*
subject to Miss C providing necessary evidence, reimburse her the amount she had to 
pay her accountant to produce confirmation of her tax and national insurance loss and 
add interest to this sum at the annual simple rate of 8% calculated from the date she 
paid her accountants invoice to the date of settlement.* 
* If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman