DRN-2304772
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skipton Building Society didnt allow him to port his mortgage when he 
applied with his husband to buy a new house some distance away. Mr K paid an early 
repayment charge (ERC) and would like this refunded.  
What happened
Mr K had a mortgage with Skipton. He wanted to move with his husband from the south of 
Scotland where he had a house back home to the north of England where he intended to 
settle with his husband and children which they hoped to adopt. Mr K got an agreement in 
principle, but the application process was aborted when the adviser asked for a relocation 
package for Mr K and his husband and said that Skipton couldnt process the application 
without it.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that Skipton 
shouldnt have rejected Mr Ks application to port based on not being able to provide 
confirmation that they had a new role as their income would remain the same. But as no 
application was made, she was unable to say whether a new mortgage application would be 
successful and whether Mr K would be able to port. So, she didnt feel that the ERC should 
be refunded but that Skipton pay Mr K compensation of £400 for Mr Ks inconvenience.  
Both Skipton and Mr K disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition to the documents already on file, Ive considered the further submissions by Mr K 
and Skipton and asked for further information before coming to my decision. There are a 
number of recorded phone calls on the file from 29 and 31 January 2020 which Ive listened 
to clarify certain matters. As I understand it, Mr K and his husband both had houses in 
Scotland and their intention was to move home to the north of England. Mr K was selling his 
house and they had found a house that they liked and told the Skipton adviser that they 
should be able to relocate their jobs within the organisation they worked for and would be on 
the same income when they moved. At the first interview their application was processed 
using their joint incomes. The second interview for their application came to a standstill when 
the adviser asked for their relocation package. Although Mr P indicated he could provide it, 
his next call an hour later was to complain about this request. 
I found this puzzling, but I believe that there was some confusion possibly because the 
circumstances were a bit unusual. Although Mr K was selling his property for £83,000.00 and 
buying with his husband a new property for £125,000.00, they werent yet relocating. 
Although there was an intention to do this in the future and a new house was being bought 
the relocation depended on when they could adopt and when it would be reasonable for 
them to leave the area from where they were adopting. This meant that when Skipton asked 
for a relocation package there wasnt one and the application didnt progress. In the last 
phone call Mr K made a complaint and the person taking the call said she would email the 
adviser to contact them, but the application seems to have stopped there.
Skipton then issued a letter on 6 February saying that as Mr K and his husband had been 
unable to identify their income and expenditure based on their future plans and that the 
Society would need to consider the impact of their adoption plans on their income and 
expenditure, so the Society couldnt proceed with the application.
As I say this was an unusual application. Although Ive access to a number of calls, Ive 
some difficulty following the sequence. It does seem in the first call that Mr K said they were 
adopting, but this doesnt appear to have caused an issue at that time. I suspect thats 
because the adviser didnt pursue the mechanics of the process which would have indicated 
that there wouldnt have been an immediate relocation as Mr K and his husband had to stay 
in Scotland for an, as yet, undetermined period to complete the process. In the second call 
with the mortgage adviser, the adviser asked for a relocation package which of course Mr K 
couldnt provide. My impression was that this adviser was processing the application without 
having the background of the potential adoption. 
I noted that both advisers that spoke to Mr K were both pleasant efficient and helpful  but my 
view is that the failure to consider the implications of the potential adoption at an early stage 
unfortunately raised Mr Ks expectations that a new mortgage wouldnt be a problem and 
that is why I believe he felt very let down and had cause to complain after the mortgage 
application interview. In my view Skipton hadnt managed Mr Ks expectations well which left 
a very unsatisfactory conclusion to the second interview leading to a complaint and I agree 
with our investigator that the compliant should be upheld an award of £400 compensation is 
appropriate.
I know Mr K would like me to go further and ask Skipton to refund the ERC. But Im unsure if 
Mr K was likely to get a mortgage with Skipton in any case. He was looking for a substantial 
increase in his mortgage. I appreciate that his husband would be jointly responsible but for 
an indefinite period - whilst they waited to formalise the adoption  its likely that they would 
have housing costs in both Scotland and England which is an issue that I didnt see factored 
in during the first interview. So, Im not convinced that a mortgage would in any case have 
been offered and so I cant fairly award a refund of the ERC.
Putting things right
Skipton Building Society should pay Mr K £400. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman