DRN-2924870
The complaint
Miss B and Mr M have complained that Everyday Lending Limited (EDL or the lender) 
was irresponsible to have agreed credit for them. Miss B also complains about EDLs 
actions after the agreement started.
 
What happened
EDL provided Miss B and Mr M with a joint loan of £12,500 in August 2016. The total 
amount of £22,013, including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £367.(Ive rounded all figures in this document for simplicity).
I understand that £4,655 out of the £12,500 capital was used to settle an existing loan 
from EDL along with £2,000 for two revolving credit accounts, all of which were in Mr Ms 
sole name. The balance of £5,845 was paid to Miss B and Mr M.
In early 2017, Miss B and Mr M missed repayments and Miss B advised EDL in May that 
she and Mr M were no longer together and that the loan would be settled when their 
house was sold. This didnt happen (though the arrears were paid) and in December of 
that year all parties agreed that Miss B and Mr M would each pay half of an early 
settlement figure of over £11,000.
However, it seems no agreement was reached about how this would happen until May 
2018, when all parties agreed that Mr M would pay a lump sum of £5,517 and Miss B 
would repay her half in monthly instalments. I understand Mr M then paid a lump sum that 
month and Miss B was left owing an amount of £5,487 with the understanding that no 
further interest would be charged and she would repay this in monthly instalments of 
£100. The agreement also meant Mr M would have no further liability or involvement with 
the loan.
Miss B didnt make her monthly repayments as arranged and it seems because of this 
EDL charged her interest on the balance shed agreed to pay. I understand that up to 
April of this year Miss B had paid an amount of £2,300, with monthly payments of £100 
and lump sum payments to make up for missed payments. EDL now says that Miss B 
owes it a balance of £5,310. Miss B disputes this amount and says that she is liable for 
less than this, as had been agreed. 
Miss B has explained to EDL and to this Service that she was, and is, in a vulnerable 
position because the relationship between her and Mr M was abusive to the point that 
she put a restraining order in place in November 2017. She also explained that she 
worked in financial services and that any negative information on her credit file could 
have resulted in her losing her job. Miss B says that the loan is not showing 
accurately on her credit file because the monthly payments are shown as nil and the 
capital owed each month is increasing although she has made payments and 
reduced the debt.
Miss B says the matter has caused her extreme distress and anxiety. In order to resolve 
the matter, she would like the outstanding balance to be written off and any negative 
information on her credit file to be removed.
Our investigator looked into whether or not EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend 
to Miss B and Mr M in the first instance, as well as whether EDL treated Miss B unfairly. 
They found that EDL didnt lend irresponsibly and hadnt treated Miss B unfairly and so 
didnt recommend that any aspect of her complaint be upheld. Miss B didnt agree with 
this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the 17 June 2021 explaining why I thought Miss B and 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. I didnt conclude that EDL was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for Miss B and Mr M but I did conclude that everything didnt go as it should 
have later on. I provisionally found that EDL failed to treat Miss B fairly, that shed 
suffered a financial loss and had been impacted practially and emotionally as a result.
Miss B agreed with my provisional decision but EDL didnt, and said that 
it didnt decline Miss Bs offer of £20 payments [made in or before April 2018] but 
couldnt accept them under her terms of not reporting her credit file correctly;
part of the reason we allowed Mr M to pay off his loan part and relinquish his 
responsibilities from this loan was because of how desperate Miss B was for this to 
not affect her credit file as she was concerned about this impacting her employment 
in the financial services. We therefore made an unprecedented decision to remove 
Mr M from the loan as Miss B felt that he would deliberately affect her credit file. She 
then agree to make the payments of £100 which she did not keep. We advised her 
that her [income and expenditure] review showed that she couldnt afford this but she 
insisted that she would juggle things around and payments would be made. Given 
the complexity of her circumstances, we allowed her time to do this, although we 
wouldnt do this under standard procedures. 
Miss B was informed about changes to her account, for example, via a letter on the 
30 October 2019 which advised her of the informal arrangement with £100 payments 
and a letter on the 31 May 2020 which said her arrangement was reverting to the 
original terms and she needed to pay £3,151 within seven days to avoid default 
procedures.  
any rescheduling is done without prejudice and does not alter the terms of the legal 
agreement. Therefore if a customer defaults on an agreed arrangement it will chase 
the whole debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. And Ive carefully considered what EDL has said in response to 
my provisional decision. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for the lender but I 
am continuing to uphold Miss B and Mr Ms complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. (Ive included an extract from this at the end of this document as it 
explains how I came to my provisional conclusions and so it forms part of this final 
decision.) 
Let me start by saying that I can understand EDLs perspective on this matter. The lender 
says that it dealt with Miss B outside of its standard procedures because of the complexity 
of her circumstances. Id said in my provisional decision that I thought  EDL were at a loss 
as to how to best help Miss B manage the debt. I provisionally found that it hadnt treated Miss B unfairly up to the point at which it agreed to remove Mr M from the loan and 
agreed a repayment plan of £100 a month with her (May 2018).
However, I also found that things didnt go as they should have after that. I appreciate that 
EDL sent letters to Miss B at various times  Id set out a timeline in my provisional 
decision which included the two communications it mentions  but I provisionally 
concluded that this felt short of what Miss B needed in her particular circumstances. EDL 
hasnt provided any new information on this point and so I remain of the view that its 
communication with Miss B about how it was dealing with her account wasnt clear and it 
didnt treat her fairly in this regard.
EDL hasnt clarified what its response was to Miss Bs offers of lump sum payments in 
December 2018 and June 2020. I didnt suggest that EDL ought to have accepted these 
offers but I wasnt clear what its response had been and so I thought the lender potentially 
prolonged Miss Bs indebtedesness and compounded her distress by not considering 
these. I can only conclude that it didnt respond to these offers and so my view remains.
EDL said in response to my provisional decision that the terms of the original agreement 
with Miss B still stand because if a customer defaults on an agreed arrangement it will 
chase the whole debt. This might not be an unfair approach in some circumstances 
however, in this case, it doesnt seem to me that EDL can fairly hold Miss B solely 
responsible for the remaining debt if it considers that the informal arrangement made is no 
longer valid because the original agreement was a joint one. 
Miss B says The whole situation and lack of help or compassion with Everyday Lending 
had a domino effect and created a financial mess from every single angle. They were 
adding interest and could never tell me how much interest as their systems did not 
calculate that information. They said the interest was mounting up and scaring me 
constantly. There never seemed to be a way out. I made numerous complaints, all of 
which were never upheld.  I was in such a financial mess I hit deep depression and lost 
my job. Miss B says that she experienced distress, stress, anxiety and sleepless nights 
caused by the firm creating a financial mess without offering any help to resolve the 
situation and for not sticking to an agreement to restructure the loan throughout all of 
the trauma [EDL] never once treated me as a vulnerable client.
To reiterate what Id said in my provisional decision - I can see that individuals attempted 
to be helpful to Miss B and Mr M in finding a way forward and that I suspect that the above 
failings stem from EDLs difficulty to reflect the current state of a formal agreement that 
has been superceeded by an informal arrangement. However, EDL was aware of the 
serious circumstances surrounding the end of Miss B and Mr Ms relationship and the 
strong concerns Miss B had about her credit file and should have considered that in her 
circumstances its actions were likely to have a substantial and sustained adverse impact 
on her. I remain of the view that a substantial compensation award is fair in this case.
In summary, I am continuing to uphold Miss Bs complaint for the reasons Ive set out 
above and in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
EDL should not pursue Miss B for more than the amount agreed informally with her 
and Mr M in May 2018. I understand this to be an amount of £5,487 and that Miss B 
has paid £2,300 so far towards this.
There isnt a formula for working out what fair compensation is for non-financial loss. 
This Service sets out guidelines about this on its website and I have borne these in mind. I have also considered that EDL has recovered the loan capital as more than 
£14,000 has been repaid and that this matter has been ongoing for Miss B for over four 
years.
I think EDL should:
Cap the amount Miss B needs to pay at £5,487; and
Treat all payments she made as payments towards this amount; and
Reduce the remaining balance by £2,000 to reflect the considerable 
distress and inconvenience its actions have caused her; and
Agree an affordable arrangement plan with Miss B for the remaining 
balance or accept a lump sum in full repayment; and
Amend Miss Bs credit file to reflect her correct level of liability and remove any 
adverse information about the loan, by which I mean defaults or late payment 
markers. It may be simpler to remove any record of the loan from her credit file, 
once settled.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Miss B and 
Mr Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into 
account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time.
The regulations at the time covered what EDL needed to do before and after entering 
into a credit agreement. These are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys consumer 
credit handbook (CONC) which incorporates guidance from the previous regulator, the 
Office of Fair Trading, as set out in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) document.
Before agreeing credit for Miss B and Mr M EDL needed to check that they could afford to 
meet their repayments sustainably, in other words out of their usual means without having 
to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and 
Miss B and Mr Ms circumstances, and EDL needed to take proper account of the 
information it gathered.
This included taking a proportionate and considered approach to a borrowers arrears 
difficulties. So when Miss B and Mr M fell into arrears, EDL should have given them the 
opportunity to repay these, potentially deferring payment or accepting token payments 
for a time. And it needed to clearly communicate what was happening at all times, 
including with regard to setting up a repayment plan. The overarching requirement here 
is that EDL needed to pay due regard to Miss B and Mr Ms interests and treat them 
fairly.
In coming to a decision on this case, I have thought about the following questions:
- did EDL make a fair lending decision, in other words did it complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss B and Mr Ms 
loan application to satisfy itself that they would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did EDL provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the loan 
before and during the loan term?
- did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example 
when Miss B and Mr M had difficulty meeting repayments?
What happened before the loan was agreed
EDL provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included Miss B and Mr Ms payslips, bank statements and credit file records. I think 
the checks EDL carried out here were proportionate and I havent seen anything in the 
information it gathered to suggest that Miss B and Mr M wouldnt be able to meet their 
repayments sustainably.
Miss B says that at the time she was still in a probationary period with her employer and, 
given her income level and the relatively large mortgage she was jointly responsible for, 
EDL ought to have been concerned that she wouldnt have been able to meet the 
repayments should it happen that she ended up being solely responsible for the loan.
I can understand Miss Bs perspective that, with hindsight, it was a relatively large loan to 
take on, along with their mortgage and other lending. However, it seems from the 
information EDL gathered that Miss B and Mr Ms disposable income would comfortably cover the repayments and their credit file record didnt show any problems managing their 
current financial commitments. There are some overdraft charges on their bank 
statements but, considering everything, I dont think EDL was irresponsible to lend to 
Miss B and Mr M on the basis of the information it had. And so I dont plan to uphold this 
aspect of their complaint.
What happened after the loan had been agreed and before an informal arrangement was 
put in place
Let me start by saying that there has been a considerable level of contact between EDL 
and Miss B about the loan. EDL has provided its customer contact records and account 
statements and Ive relied on these and what Miss B has said directly to this Service to 
understand what has happened. Ive set out some of this below.
Miss B and Mr M missed repayments in 2017 and, as mentioned, Miss B told the lender 
that they were no longer together in May 2017, less than a year into the agreement. The 
notes show that Miss B gave permission for sensitive data to be recorded and I can see 
that by February 2018 Miss B had explained to EDL that she and Mr M were going 
through the courts to put in place a financial settlement, that Mr M was not contributing to 
their joint debt and that a restraining order was in place. In March 2018 Miss B wrote to 
EDL explaining fully the nature of the relationship she and Mr M had and asking for, in her 
words, serious help in resolving her situation.
The customer notes of 28 March 2018 record that Miss B said  I have sent the income 
and expenditure and still no suggestion on what I should pay, its the 28th now and I guess 
there will be more interest added today, still none the wiser as to what that rate actually is. 
I sent an email querying how I can be helped and passed on to a complaints department 
because its probably the closest procedure I fit in to, can anybody please think outside of 
the box with this situation to help because I am ill because of this. The past year has been 
difficult enough and this is really dragging me down in to a depressed state and having an 
effect on every aspect of life, being under this financial pressure and strain is just 
horrendous.
Responses from EDL in April 2018 include the following:
 As previously advised, unless the account is maintained up to date, either on the current 
contractual amount, or an arrangement is made to restructure the account, then the 
account will proceed through our normal collection procedure. This will involve a default 
being registered and the account will be issued to our solicitors who may then issue a 
CCJ and take the necessary steps to recover our balance. This may involve an 
attachment of earnings or bailiffs. Both of these courses of action would incur a cost to 
you which will increase the amount you owe. The account will currently be showing in 
arrears on your credit file and will continue to do so until the situation is either resolved, of 
the above default occurs. The collection action that is taken will be both for yourself and 
[Mr M].
Please remember that we even considered writing a new loan in your own name interest 
free but this would require a new application and affordability checks being carried out. We 
are happy to receive your payment of £20 if you wish to pay this however, under ICO 
(Information Commission Office) guidance, we need to accurately report your debt.
Therefore, if we were to accept your £20 and reschedule your account, this would show 
as under arrangement, which you do not want. We cannot accept the £20 and show your 
loan payments being met in full as this would breach ICO guidance. You will be aware 
that under Data Protection regulation, the data we hold and report must be accurate and 
relevant. If an informal arrangement cannot be agreed between two parties i.e. you and Everyday Loans, then we must report the relevant arrears and default the account. 
Defaulting the account will freeze further interest and whilst it remains on a customers 
credit file for six years, it is often seen as the more appropriate option as less debt is 
owed.
Its clear from the contact record that Miss B was under great stress trying to deal with 
this loan and her wider financial situation. Its also clear that Miss B was very concerned 
about the impact of this debt on her credit record and she made EDL aware that she 
didnt want to have any arrears or arrangement to pay reported. However, it seems she 
was given no option but to accept that there would be some impact on her credit file 
because she could not afford to meet the original repayments of £367 a month and a new 
arrangement was needed if she was to continue to repay the loan and not default.
By May 2018, Mr M had agreed to pay half the settlement figure of £11,034 with a lump 
sum payment and Miss B had accepted that she would have a repayment plan reported 
on her credit file. EDL didnt accept a repayment amount of £20 a month for the balance 
from Miss B but it did accept a figure of £100. So Mr M paid a lump sum of £5,517 and 
Miss B, informally, took sole responsibility for the balance of £5,487 at £100 a month.
Miss B now says this arrangement was unaffordable for her and that EDL should have 
been aware of this from the information she gave it about her income and expenditure at 
the time. I dont know what information EDL relied on to assess the affordability of this 
arrangement for Miss B so I currently cant say whether or not it treated her unfairly by 
agreeing to it and not, for example, deferring payments or accepting token or reduced 
payments for a time.
Miss B refers to herself as vulnerable. The relevant regulations (CONC 7.2.1R ref ILG 7.2, 
CONC 7.3.4R ref. ILG 7.3 and 7.4) state that a vulnerable consumer could be someone 
who lacks the mental capacity to make relevant financial decisions at a particular time, 
including being unable to engage with debt repayment and being in need of reasonable 
adjustments to policies and proceedures for recovering debts. I think Miss B was indeed 
in a vulnerable position and struggled to manage this debt.
I have thought about whether EDL ought to have shown more flexibility and efficiency in 
its dealings with Miss B and her attempts to come to an arrangement regarding payment 
of the loan. EDL had been made aware of the breakdown of Miss B and Mr Ms 
relationship for a year before this arrangement was put in place and by early 2018 at the 
latest knew the extent of the difficulties Miss B was experiencing. That said, given Miss 
Bs reluctance to have any adverse information (as she saw it) recorded on her credit file, 
I think EDL were at a loss as to how to best help her manage the debt.
Altogether, I am not currently of the view that EDL treated Miss B and Mr M unfairly up to 
this point. I do, however, think everything didnt go as it should have later on.
What happened after an informal arrangement was put in place
Ill start by setting out a brief outline of events as I understand them.
In June 2018 Miss B told EDL that shed lost her job, but she was about to start 
with a new employer and that she would be able to make a lump sum payment 
soon with a gift from a family member. Miss Bs direct debit payments of £100 
were returned unpaid for May, June and July. The account history shows she 
made a £100 payment in September and again in November.
11 December 2018  Miss B offered an amount of £4,000 to settle the account. This was not accepted and she was informed that the settlement figure was now 
£6,326. I assume this is due to EDL charging interest on the informally agreed 
amount Miss B was liable to pay.
On 24 December 2018 EDL wrote to Miss B to say: Dear [Miss B] My head 
office have advised that they will allow settlement without any interest being 
charged. That would make the current settlement figure £5,316.50 (which was 
your half plus the
£200 you have already paid). When the £600 has been paid as advised in your 
email it will bring it down to £4716.50. The reschedule has not completed at this 
stage...
Miss B made a lump sum payment of £600 in December 2018 to bring the 
account up to date and pre-pay the amount owed for January 2019. She 
continued to meet her monthly repayments of £100 in 2019.
An email from EDL on 14 August 2019 says: The account is showing in front by
£112.48 at the minute, your due date is 28th of each month, the current monthly 
payment is £366.89 so on the 28th it will charge the account leaving £254.41 
arrears. The account is in front at the minute due to the large payment from your 
ex-partner last year. I believe you agreed £100 a month for 3 months with [-] and 
then we would put the remainder of the balance into a 0% int loan. Can you 
please confirm if this was agreed?...
In October 2019, EDL confirmed in writing to Miss B that the reschedule of the 
loan at £100 a month at 0% interest had gone ahead.
On 20 January 2020, Miss B said the repayments werent affordable for her and 
EDL undertook a full income and expenditure assessment and agreed to freeze 
the account for 90 days.
On 30 May 2020 EDL sent Miss B a letter asking for payment of the full 
amount of the debt, which it stated as £3,151. The letter said It appears you 
have not kept to the terms of our without prejudice arrangement and, as 
advised, we are now reverting to the original contractual terms that we agreed 
with you. Therefore, the payment of £3,151.40 is overdue and we request 
your payment of this amount in the next seven days. Please note there may 
be additional interest which has accrued which is not included in this amount 
and which will continue to attract additional interest which is not required to 
bring your account up-to-date. We will have no alternative but to proceed with 
our default procedures if this payment is not received.
Miss B queried the balance and offered a lump sum payment of £2,500 in full 
and final settlement. EDL responded in June to say  I have forwarded your 
email on to our complaints team to check the information is correct. However 
due to non- payment of the account we are set to lose your account on the 
30th June to a third party debt company. Many Thanks.
Firstly, looking at the customer records, its clear that EDL has struggled to give Miss B 
clear and fair information about her loan account. She was told on a number of occasions 
that the loan had reverted to the orginal agreement, without being told what that actually 
meant in terms of what she owed. She was given a settlement figure in December 2018 
which didnt reflect the informal arrangment that had been agreed in May 2018. 
Correspondence in 2020 referred to possible additional interest which has accrued which is not included in this amount and which will continue to attract additional interest which is 
not required to bring your account up-to-date. I am not actually sure what this means. It 
seems to indicate that Miss owed more than this amount because further interest was yet 
to be added. And so Miss B was told that her account would be passed to a third party 
debt collector due to non- payment without actually being told how much she ought to pay 
to prevent that happening.
Miss B says that she has made payments of £2,500. The statement of account shows that 
two payments of £100 were returned so I currently think she has paid £2,300 since May 
2018. This seems to approximately tally with the figure of £3,151 EDL quoted as the 
account balance in May 2020. As mentioned, Miss B says that the loan is not showing 
accurately on her credit file because the monthly payments are shown as nil and the 
capital owed each month is increasing although she has made payments and reduced the 
debt. I have not seen a recent copy of Miss Bs credit file but I have no reason to doubt 
what she says about this. Given that I currently think the lender struggled to provide Miss 
B with clear and fair information about her account, I think its unlikely that its credit 
reporting is a clear or fair reflection of her account.
I understand that Miss B offered to pay a lump sum on two occasions to settle the debt  
once in December 2018 and again in June 2020. I havent seen correspondence from 
EDL explaining that it would not accept these offers and why. EDL potentially prolonged 
Miss Bs indebtedness without clear reason and caused distress to her over a 
considerable period of time. To be clear, I am not suggesting the lender ought to have 
accepted either of these offers, but I am unclear as to what its response was on these 
occasions.
I can see that over the course of the considerable communications that individuals 
attempted to be helpful to Miss B and Mr M in finding a way forward. I suspect that the 
above failings stem from EDLs difficulty to reflect the current state of a formal agreement 
that has been superceeded by an informal arrangement. However, EDL was aware of the 
serious circumstances surrounding the end of Miss B and Mr Ms relationship and the 
strong concerns Miss B had about her credit file and should have considered that in her 
circumstances its actions were likely to have a substantial and sustained adverse impact 
on her.
In summary, I currently think that EDL failed to treat Miss B fairly and that shes 
suffered a financial loss and been impacted practially and emotionally as a result. EDL 
needs to take steps to put this right, which Ive set out below.
What EDL should do to put things right
EDL should not pursue Miss B for more than the amount agreed informally with her 
and Mr M in May 2018. I understand this to be an amount of £5,487 and that Miss B 
has paid £2,300 so far towards this.
There isnt a formula for working out what fair compensation is for non-financial loss. 
This Service sets out guidelines about this on its website and I have borne these in 
mind. I have also considered that EDL has recovered the loan capital as more than 
£14,000 has been repaid and that this matter has been ongoing for Miss B for over four 
years.
I currently think EDL should:
Cap the amount Miss B needs to pay at £5,487; and
Treat all payments she made as payments towards this amount; and
Reduce the remaining balance by £2,000 to reflect the considerable distress and inconvenience its actions have caused her; and
Agree an affordable arrangement plan with Miss B for the remaining 
balance or accept a lump sum in full repayment; and
Amend Miss Bs credit file to reflect her correct level of liability and remove any 
adverse information about the loan, by which I mean defaults or late payment 
markers. It may be simpler to remove any record of the loan from her credit file, 
once settled.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I intend to uphold Miss B and Mr Ms complaint and 
direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.
Ill wait two weeks at most to see if either party has anything further to add before 
considering my decision on this complaint once more.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman