DRN-4209883
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited acted unfairly when 
handling a claim she made under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs G got in touch with LV in 2022 about water damage to her garage and shed as a 
result of alterations a neighbour had made on their property.
LV appointed a company, H. They sent a representative who they described as a 
surveyor to inspect the damage. H told Mrs G the damage had been caused by 
wear and tear and wasnt covered by the policy.
Mrs G complained. She said Hs representative had told her at the inspection that 
repairs to the garage and shed were covered, but it wouldnt deal with the water 
ingress problem. Now it was saying nothing was covered. Shed also been in touch 
with the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) and Chartered Institute of 
Loss Adjusters (CILA) and found the representative wasnt a member of either 
organisation. LVs position remained unchanged.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied the claim 
had been declined fairly as the cause of damage wasnt covered by the policy. But 
she didnt think LV had been clear with Mrs G during the claim. She asked it to pay 
£100 compensation.
LV accepted what our investigator said. Mrs G asked for her complaint to be referred 
to an Ombudsman. She said LV had told her the claim would be covered when she 
initially reported it. And she thought LV would help her to identify the source of the 
water and put a stop to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the buildings, which includes garages, outbuildings and 
driveways, as a result of a number of specific causes. It doesnt cover finding and 
resolving the source of incoming water, unless its leaking from a pipe or similar.
The causes relevant to this claim are: escape of water, flood and accidental damage. 
Ive thought about the circumstances to decide if the damage has been caused by 
any of them.
Mrs G says she noticed water was reaching her driveway from her neighbours 
property in 2014. By 2019, it was reaching her garage. At that time, her neighbour 
agreed to pay for a drain to redirect the water away. But in 2021, water was pooling 
on her driveway and her neighbour didnt agree to engage with the problem any 
further. In 2022, she noticed water pooling around her shed. Both shed and garage 
were suffering water and crack damage at this time.
Mrs G arranged for the local water company to visit. They found no evidence of pipe 
leaks and were satisfied the water was coming from the neighbours property due to 
a lack of an effective drainage solution. The company gave advice to the neighbour, 
but I understand theyve taken no action to change things.
Hs notes say the water problem has been ongoing for a number of years, so the 
damage has been happening gradually. They thought some of the damage 
amounted to wear and tear. Whilst the representative doesnt seem to be a member 
of RICS or CILA, I dont think they need to be in order to make these kinds of 
judgements about the damage. And what theyve said is closely aligned to the 
circumstances Mrs G has described, so I have no reason to doubt their opinion.
Taking these circumstances into account, Im not persuaded the damage has been 
caused in any of the ways covered by the policy. Escape of water cover only applies 
where the water leaks from a pipe or similar  and that doesnt seem to be the case 
here. Im not satisfied the gradual movement of water in the manner seen here 
amounts to a flood. And for damage to be accidental, the policy requires it to have 
been caused suddenly  which isnt the case.
Even if the damage was caused in a way covered by the policy, the policy says it 
doesnt cover: claims arising from wear and tear or gradual deterioration. Its 
questionable whether the water damage can fairly be described as wear and tear 
because its not happening through the normal usage of the buildings  the water is 
intervening to cause the damage. But without doubt, its a gradual process.
Overall, Im satisfied it was fair for LV to decline the claim under the home insurance 
policy.
I understand Mrs G is aware of this, but, for completeness, her policy does include 
additional legal expenses cover, including a legal advice helpline. Shes entitled to 
explore these options if she wishes.
LV has accepted that it was unclear with Mrs G at times. For example:
oLV initially gave Mrs G the impression the claim was covered and it would ask 
her neighbour to resolve the water problem. LV didnt seem to explain that the 
purpose of the visit by H was to decide if the claim was covered or not. Or 
that it would only get in touch with the neighbour if the claim was covered.
oMrs G says H told her it would cover the damage  but its notes say 
otherwise. I dont know what was said at the visit but clearly a 
misunderstanding has arisen somehow.
oHs notes mainly refer to gradual damage, but LV focused more on wear and 
tear when explaining why it had declined the claim.
oLV referred to Hs representative as a surveyor, but its unclear what 
qualifications, if any, they have to justify this title.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think its clear Mrs G was caused avoidable 
inconvenience by the way LV dealt with the claim. It should have been clearer with her about the claim position, the likely steps involved, and the status of the 
representative involved. Im satisfied £100 is reasonable compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman