DRN-3728630
The complaint
Mr W says Wealthmasters gave him unsuitable advice in 2015 to invest in two high risk 
investments through his Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), namely Dolphin Trust 
(Dolphin) and Greyfriars Portfolio Six (P6). He also complains about a recommendation in 
2017 to make a cash investment into Dolphin.
Mr W is represented by TWL Solicitors (TWL).
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W sought advice from Wealthmasters. Mr W was approaching retirement, 
they were also looking to review their existing Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and 
consider using monies held on account for a lump sum investment.
Information about Mr and Mrs Ws objectives, circumstances and attitude to risk started to be 
gathered from December 2014. For example, its recorded that:
- They had no financial dependents. Mr W was employed as a director and Mrs W 
worked part-time as a teacher. Their gross annual income was around £103,000. 
They had a net monthly disposable income of around £2,100.
- They owned their own home which was valued at £750,000. Mrs W had a rental 
property valued at around £120,000 which was also unencumbered. They had 
account deposits of around £68,000 and around £37,000 in stocks and shares ISAs.
- Mr W had personal pensions with Abbey Life (AL) and Old Mutual Wealth (OMW). At 
the time these were said to have transfer values of about £134,000 and £58,000 
respectively. He was also a member of a group personal pension with Standard Life 
(SL), which his employer contributed to. This was said to be worth around £30,000. 
Mrs W was a member of an occupation pension scheme (OPS).
- Their general financial objectives were similar. Both prioritized maintaining their 
standard of living in retirement, investment planning, long-term savings and 
mitigating inheritance tax liabilities. 
- Neither were regarded by Wealthmasters as high net worth individuals or self-
certified sophisticated investors.
Mr and Mrs W were assessed by Wealthmasters as having a moderate attitude to risk. It 
summarised this as meaning:
The Moderate Investor is somewhat concerned with short-term losses and may shift to a 
more stable option in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and return 
are typically of equal importance to the Moderate investor.
For Mr W this was translated into an investment strategy he was said to have agreed where 
20% of his funds would be invested at below average risk; 60% at average risk and 20% at 
above average risk. No funds would be earmarked for adventurous investments. 
Wealthmasters produced three separate suitability reports over a relatively short period. The 
first and second in February and March 2015 were focussed on Mr Ws pension 
arrangements, their ISA provider and how to utilise available cash deposits. The second 
report was issued because of significant changes to their circumstances. These were 
recorded in the following terms:
You have sold your house and have an offer being considered on another which you intend 
to live in whilst you improve its current state with the view to selling the house in 
approximately four years for a projected profit. This will initially increase your funds held on 
deposit as your current property is valued at £750,000 whereas the proposed purchase is 
less. Having said that, you have confirmed the new house will require considerable 
improvements.
However, [Mr W aims] to do much of the home improvements [himself] as [he] handed in 
[his] notice with [his] current employer on Friday (6'* March 2015) and intend to become 
self-employed with a view to working no more than two days a week. As a result your 
earnings are due to decrease meaning you may need to draw on your pension income 
sooner than you had anticipated. Also, your employer will no longer contribute into your 
Standard Life pension meaning you now wish to have a review of this plan as it was initially 
discounted in the original report whilst your employer was paying in.
Mr W also informed Wealthmasters that rather than retiring at 60 as hed initially intended, 
he now expected to continue to work self-employed but on reduced hours until he was 67, at 
which point he would be solely dependent on his pension arrangements.
Wealthmasters third suitability report was issued in May 2015. This was focussed on how Mr 
W should invest his pension funds.
As these three suitability reports are essentially connected Ive considered them together. 
The main recommendations Wealthmasters made were that:
- Mr W should switch his AL, OMW and SL pensions to a Greyfriars SIPP in order to 
consolidate administration and to provide more investment possibilities both pre and 
post retirement. And to enable his phased approach to retirement.
- Mr W pension fund should invest: £100,000 in a portfolio managed by a Brewin 
Dolphin Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), following a moderate risk strategy;  
£100,000 in a portfolio managed by a Sanlam DFM, following a moderate risk 
strategy; £36,000 in P6; £36,000 in a Structured Capital at Risk Product (SCARP) 
with a maximum term of six years; £36,000 in a 5-year Dolphin loan note, providing 
fixed income of 12%pa; and £2,000 left in cash to pay SIPP fees.
- As this would be Mr Ws last year as an employed person, he should make a 
substantial pension contribution for the tax-year to maximise the tax-relief this would 
attract. Also, that Mr and Mrs W should change the provider for their ISAs and 
maximise their contributions for the tax-year. It noted the effect of these 
recommendations was utilize the bulk of their available cash deposits.
Ultimately Mr W accepted Wealthmasters recommendations. His new SIPP was opened on 
27 March 2015 with a net personal contribution of £32,000. In April 2015 about £90,500 was 
switched from OMW and around £144,500 from AL. In May 2015 his SIPP account was 
credited with £8,000 tax relief for his pension contribution. In June 2015 about £44,500 was 
received from his former SL pension. 
Wealthmasters took its initial advice fees amounting to about £6230 in May and June 2015. 
And by August 2015 the bulk of his available funds had been invested in accordance with 
the recommendations set out.Wealthmasters issued a further suitability report on 29 June 2017. It recommended Mr W 
withdraw the proceeds of a Novia ISA valued at about £18,500 and invest directly in a 5-year 
Dolphin loan note for £20,000. Its reasoning was Mr W required additional income to 
maintain his standard of living in retirement and preferred fixed income so he could predict 
his income from year to year. It said the Novia ISA didnt include alternative investment 
strategies that would provide a steady quantifiable income stream. It also noted Mr W had 
been very happy with his previous Dolphin investment.
On 21 October 2020, TLW raised several concerns with Wealthmasters about its advice to 
Mr W to invest in the Greyfriars P6 and Dolphin holdings. It wasnt satisfied that it had 
adhered to the appropriate regulations in providing him with advice. And it considered these 
recommendations had been unsuitable. 
On 29 January 2021 Wealthmasters provided Mr Ws representative with its final response. 
It refuted his complaint and summarised its position saying:
We stand by the advice given to Mr W as suitable at that time and the documentation 
provided to you proves that the advice was suitable in line with regulation and his own 
objectives and requirements. Wealthmasters followed the correct processes, we provided Mr 
W with all the relevant information via face to face discussions, detailed written 
recommendation reports and product explanations (and the appropriate risk warnings). For 
these reasons Wealthmasters do not uphold Mr W's complaint.
The Investigator reviewed Mr Ws complaint and upheld it. He considered that the Dolphin 
and P6 investments had been unsuitable for someone with a moderate risk appetite and the 
strategic spread of risk hed agreed. Wealthmasters didnt respond to the Investigators 
findings.
Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to review the case afresh and to issue a decision. 
This is the final part of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Wealthmasters for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Wealthmasters. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?  
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Further, when considering the use of a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement, 
the regulator has made clear that amongst other matters, firms need to take into account 
issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were actually 
explained to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. They were recommending DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet. 
Did Wealthmasters meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr W?
I dont think Wealthmasters met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to Wealthmasters transaction with Mr W that are 
important to my consideration, these include the fact-finds, risk appetite questionnaire, and 
the suitability report.
I can see that Wealtmasters has raised an argument that Mr W is only complaining because 
some of his investments didnt work out. Hes not brought a complaint about the switch of his 
pensions into a SIPP because hes satisfied with how everything else worked out. This is an 
important argument to consider because it wouldnt be fair if this Service essentially enabled 
customers to pick winners after the event.
My starting point then was the broader transaction Wealthmasters undertook with Mr W. The 
advice to switch all three of his personal pensions into a SIPP and utilise the services of 
DFMs. Like the Investigator, I dont think its recommendation was unreasonable.
I note initially Wealthmasters was only advising Mr W to switch his OMW and AL plans 
because he was still receiving employer contributions to his group personal pension with SL. 
I think that position was sound, as was its later recommendation for him to switch all three 
pensions when it was confirmed hed soon be leaving his employer and pension 
contributions would cease.
Wealthmasters found a significant element of Mr Ws personal pension funds were over-
exposed in terms of his assessed risk appetite, or were otherwise under-performing. So 
changes to his existing arrangements were required. And bearing in mind his pot exceeded 
£320,000, arguments in favour of a SIPP around consolidation, the flexibility offered by 
drawdown arrangements with his new provider and the ability to invest his total funds across 
a broader range of offers are satisfactory. In switching I cant see he lost any material 
guarantees or protections, or suffered such penalty.
The Greyfriars SIPP offered investment opportunities such as a DFM and structured 
products his previous pensions would be unlikely to accept and it offered simplified 
administration. The DFMs selected were well established. It seems Mr W wanted his funds 
actively managed to ensure they remained within his risk appetite. And while DFM 
arrangements often carry higher charges, returns to clients with larger portfolios can 
outweigh the additional charges.
Im satisfied the advice to invest in the Brewin Dolphin and Sanlam portfolios was suitable in 
this case. And the SCARP appears to have been a suitable investment for Mr Ws portfolio 
because it represented a modest portion of his funds; he had no immediate need for the 
funds at the time of the advice; the counterparties were four large UK financial services 
institutions; and he was prepared to accept some risk with his investments.
From Wealthmasters 2015 advice, that leaves the investments Mr W is complaining about. 
Firstly I note that on the P6 application form from May 2015, it described Mr Ws investment 
experience in the following terms:Help design and build structured products, years of experience in funds, unit trusts and 
financial services in general.
And then, in answering a question as to why unregulated investments would be suitable for 
Mr W, Wealthmasters recorded:
He has dealt with financial service firms on marketing products and understands risk v 
reward and knows this is not a fund but a high risk investment.
But the Investigator found:
[Mr Ws] previous investments were unit linked funds and although he may have previously 
dealt with financial services firms during his career, I dont agree this meant he was in a 
position to understand the risks involved. Ive also seen no evidence of [his] supposed 
previous experience of designing and building structured products, but in any case, the P6 
and Dolphin investments were completely different investments to these.
Ive already noted that Wealthmasters failed to respond to the Investigators view. It follows 
Ive no evidence to substantiate what was included in the P6 application, and therefore 
based on the other evidence I do have such as the fact-find, I agree with the Investigators 
findings on this point. 
The Greyfriars P6 application form shows the portfolio consisted of five bonds where the 
underlying investments ranged from car parks to overseas hotel developments. These 
investments were unregulated, esoteric, difficult to value, lacked liquidity and were reliant on 
third parties. The Dolphin investment shared the same traits.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. This contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments.
Further, Wealthmasters will have been aware that in June 2013 the FCA published an alert 
notifying firms it was to ban the promotion of UCIS to the vast majority of retail investors in 
the UK. The alert stated that the promotion of these riskier and complex fund structures 
would generally be restricted to sophisticated investors and high net worth individuals, for 
whom those products were more likely to be suitable.
And on 28 April 2014 the FCA published another alert which stated it believed:
pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream propositions are 
unlikely to be suitable options for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms operating in this 
market need to be particularly careful to ensure their advice is suitable.
In the cases we have seen, customers existing arrangements were invariably traditional 
pension plans invested in mainstream funds or final salary schemes, with the customer 
generally having no experience of non-mainstream propositions and many having very 
limited experience of standard investments.
The new arrangements firms proposed were to transfer or switch the customers pension 
funds to a SIPP, with a view to investment in non-mainstream propositions, which were 
typically unregulated, high risk and highly illiquid investments. Some examples of these 
investments are overseas property developments, store pods and forestry. Such transfers or 
switches are unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail customers.The P6 and Dolphin investments should only form a small part of an adventurous, 
experienced investors portfolio with the capacity to take risks with their funds. 
Wealthmasters had recommended Mr W place 23% of his pension provision in such. But he 
was assessed by it as a moderate risk investor who was approaching retirement. Theres no 
evidence to show he had any experience of these types of investments. It had also noted he 
was neither a sophisticated investor nor high net worth individual.
The risk appetite strategy agreed with Mr W indicated he was only prepared to invest 20% of 
his pension funds in above average risk funds  the P6 and Dolphin investments exceeded 
that level of risk. His previous investments were unit linked funds and although he may have 
previously dealt with financial services firms during his career, I dont think this meant he 
was in a position to understand the risks involved.
So, Ive concluded that Wealthmasters advice in 2015 for Mr W to invest in Greyfriars P6 
and Dolphin was unsuitable. While it did provide risk warnings about the investments this 
doesnt provide it with cover for making inappropriate recommendations. It had a duty of care 
to Mr W and had to treat him fairly.
The 2017 Dolphin recommendation
I dont find it surprising that customers ATR evolves over time. This will usually relate to their 
circumstances, including their life stages. Wealtmasters conducted regular ATR 
assessments with Mr W and these suggested he was becoming less cautious with his funds:
- May 2015  moderate (19/34)
- July 2017  moderately adventurous (36/50)
- June 2018  moderately adventurous (38/50)
Mr Ws assessed ATR appears to have been on an upward drift. But theres little information 
about what drove this. And given this was a period when he was entering retirement, its 
arguable this was a time when he should be reducing his exposure, or at least maintaining 
his initial stance. Theres little by way of explanation for this evolution of Mr Ws ATR on file. 
Another important aspect of assessing a clients risk outlook is to consider their capacity for 
loss. Wealtmasters did so for Mr W and concluded in the following terms:
Your overall wealth is such that losing some of your investments and pensions will not affect 
your standard of living and therefore I am comfortable your agreed risk profiles and my 
recommendations are aligned with your circumstances and indeed capacity for loss.
I find this statement too general, ambiguous and unhelpful. What is the scale of loss that Mr 
W and his wife could afford to take without any impact on their standard of living in 
retirement? I do think Mr W and his wife had some capacity for loss, but I find 
Wealthmasters failed to effectively quantify this to help guide his decision making.
So, even if I take Mr Ws apparently increasing appetite for risk at face value when 
considering Wealthmasters advice for him to invest a further £20,000 into Dolphin in 2017, I 
find this justification fails for several reasons. For example, he already had a significant 
exposure to this non-standard investment. And even with his supposed increased appetite 
for risk, its arguable the Dolphin holding exceeded his newly assessed risk level. This is 
especially the case when taking into account his capacity for loss.
So, Ive concluded that Wealthmasters recommendation for Mr W to invest into Dolphin in 
2017 was also unsuitable. Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ws case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd responsible for.
If Wealthmasters had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mr W wouldve invested in 
Greyfriars P6 or Dolphin. So, subject to Mr W cooperating with Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd to provide any information it requires to assess his loss fairly, it needs to 
provide redress to him using the following framework.
For the 2015 recommendations about the Greyfriars P6 and Dolphin Investments, 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must:
- Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
- If there is a loss, Wealthmasters should pay into Mr W's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
- If Wealthmasters is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it 
should pay the amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income. So, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure compensation is fair  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr 
W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
- The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume he is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. But if he wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, this 
would apply to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
- Provide the details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
- Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wealthmasters considers its 
required by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Wealthmasters should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Wealthmasters is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may require that Mr W provides an undertaking to 
pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Wealthmasters will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the 
investments should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually 
paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a 
large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wealthmasters 
total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end.
For the 2017 recommendation about the Dolphin investment Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd must:
- Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
- Provide the details of the calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it couldnt be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual value should be 
assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr W agrees to Wealthmasters taking ownership of the 
investment, if it wishes to. If its not possible for it to take ownership, then it may request an 
undertaking from Mr W that he repays Wealthmasters any amount he may receive from the 
investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal from the Dolphin investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wealthmasters total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why are these remedies suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
- Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
- The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
- Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ws circumstances and risk attitude.
Award for distress and inconvenience 
In addition, Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd should pay Mr W £250 to recognise 
the inconvenience its failings have caused him.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and I require 
Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman