DRN-3172065
The complaint
Mr L and Miss S have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined their 
mortgage application. To settle the complaint, they would like Barclays to reimburse the 
early repayment charge (ERC) they had to pay, and to compensate them for distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr L and Miss S took out a mortgage with Barclays, on the advice of their 
own independent mortgage broker. They borrowed £267,025 over a term of 33 years. The 
loan was at a fixed rate of 1.55% until 30 April 2022. If the mortgage was repaid in whole or 
in part during that period, 2% of the amount repaid would be charged as an ERC.
The mortgage offer also said that there was the possibility of porting (transferring) the 
outstanding balance of the loan onto another property, provided this met lending criteria.
Six months after taking out the mortgage Mr L and Miss S found their forever home and 
decided to move house. Through their broker, they applied again to Barclays to port their 
existing mortgage onto the new property. They also wanted to borrow an additional 
£113,475, bringing their total borrowing to £380,025.
An application was submitted via their broker on 27 August 2020. A valuation was booked. 
However, on Friday, 4 September 2020  before the valuation was carried out  Barclays 
lending criteria changed, specifically in relation to the Loan-to-Income criteria (usually 
referred to as the income multiplier). As a result, the maximum loan Barclays would be able 
to offer was £341,554. 
The valuation was cancelled but it wasnt until the following Tuesday, 9 September 2020, 
that Barclays emailed the broker to explain that the valuation had been cancelled due to the 
change in its lending criteria.
Mr L and Miss S didnt have the additional £40,000 theyd need to continue with the 
mortgage with Barclays, and so their broker arranged a new mortgage with a different lender 
so they could go ahead with their purchase. As a result, they paid an ERC of approximately 
£5,300 on repayment of their Barclays mortgage.
Mr L and Miss S complained to Barclays, because they wanted the ERC refunded. The bank 
acknowledged it should have told them on 4 September 2020 about the change in its lending 
criteria, rather than telling the broker a few days later. Barclays paid Mr L and Miss S £400 
compensation for this. But Barclays didnt agree to refund the ERC.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr L and Miss S brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. They said theyd been looking at properties based on the 
maximum lending they thought theyd be able to get from Barclays. The additional £5,300 
they had to pay for the ERC wasnt money theyd budgeted for. They also told us that a 
staycation they were going on was ruined because they had to spend time on the phone with 
their mortgage broker sorting out another mortgage, and they had to cut short experiences 
theyd planned in order to take these calls. Mr L and Miss S said that finding their forever 
home was one of the few positive things to have happened in 2020, but their mental health 
suffered because of the stress caused to them by Barclays change in its lending policy.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She was satisfied Barclays was entitled to change 
its lending criteria. As a result, the ERC had been fairly charged. For the customer service 
issues, the investigator thought the £400 Barclays had paid was fair and reasonable and 
didnt think the bank needed to pay any more compensation.
Mr L and Miss S disagreed with the investigators findings. They said that due to Barclays 
mistake, they are out of pocket by over £5,000 for the ERC, as well as the cost of their 
ruined weekend away. They also believe that its unacceptable to say that Barclays has 
acted fairly just because thats what the contract says and that Barclays has more to answer 
for.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain first that Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that 
Barclays makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this 
particular lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms, are 
clearly discretionary matters for Barclayss own commercial judgement that I would not 
interfere with. 
Barclays is also entitled to change its lending criteria from time to time, and, as in this case, 
it can affect applications that are already being considered, but where an offer has not yet 
been made. This is what happened in relation to Mr L and Miss Ss application. Generally 
mortgage lenders dont give advance warning of changes to lending criteria. 
Ive taken note of what Mr L and Miss S have said about Barclays having made a mistake. 
The bank has, in fact, acknowledged that it made an error. But the error isnt that the bank 
changed the amount it was prepared to lend Mr L and Miss S. This was a decision the bank 
was entitled to make, in line with the changes it had made in its lending criteria.
The mistake made by Barclays is that it didnt tell Mr L and Miss S of the change in its 
lending criteria on the date it came in, Friday, 4 September 2020. It wasnt until two working 
days later on Tuesday, 9 September 2020 that Barclays let Mr L and Miss Ss broker know 
that it wasnt able to lend them the full amount they wanted to borrow.
Once they were made aware of this, Mr L and Miss S could either have decided not to move, 
they could have looked for a different property that fit within the amount Barclays was able to 
lend and port the mortgage onto that property or, as they decided to do, find a new mortgage 
lender so they could buy the property they had set their hearts on. 
Because Mr L and Miss S decided to go ahead with a new lender, they had to pay the ERC 
on redemption of their Barclays mortgage. As this was a contractual term to which theyd agreed, Im not persuaded it was unfair of Barclays to charge the ERC. Im satisfied there 
was no error on the part of Barclays in applying the contract terms when the mortgage was 
repaid. This means that there is no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
Barclays to refund the ERC.
Whilst I appreciate the ERC was an expense Mr L and Miss S hadnt originally budgeted for, 
I  note they didnt, in fact, complete on their sale and purchase until 9 December 2020, and 
so had time to consider their options before deciding to go ahead with their purchase.
Barclays has acknowledged that the short delay in informing Mr L and Miss S (through their 
broker) of the change in lending policy resulted in some distress and inconvenience. 
Barclays has paid £400 compensation for this, which I think is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the mistake made and the timescale involved. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded Barclays is required to pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman