DRN-2968881
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Sabre Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor 
insurance policy due to a misrepresentation of its year of manufacture.
What happened
Miss T bought a new car in 2019 and took ownership of it in February 2020. She then took 
out a motor insurance policy with Sabre through an online price comparison site. When 
Sabre verified the policy details, it found that the car was a 2020 model rather than a 2019 
model as stated in Miss Ts application. It said the risk was unacceptable and it cancelled 
her policy and returned her unused premiums. 
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He 
didnt think there had been a misrepresentation. And so he thought it was unfair for Sabre to 
cancel Miss Ts policy. It wasnt able to reinstate it, but he thought it should remove any 
records of the cancellation and pay Miss T £100 compensation for the trouble and upset the 
cancellation caused her. 
Sabre didnt respond to the investigator and so the complaint has come to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
Sabre thinks Miss T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application via a comparison site that her car was a 2019 model. I 
understand that Miss T was told this by the dealership where she bought the car new. But 
the car was registered with the DVLA, presumably by the dealership, as a 2020 model. 
So Ive looked to see whether Miss T was asked a clear question about the cars year of 
manufacture when she took out her policy. 
Sabre said that customers usually enter their car registration into the online application form 
and then the relevant details are populated automatically. It said Miss T told it that she had 
to enter the individual details about the car, including the year of manufacture, as the 
registration number could not be found. 
Ive seen a screenshot of the page where Miss T would have had to input the cars make, 
model and year. But I havent seen the questions she was asked or any prompts or guidance 
that may have been provided. And I cant see what Miss T actually entered herself and what 
was populated automatically. 
So Im not satisfied that Miss T was asked a clear question about her cars model year. In 
any case, if Miss T inputted the information she was provided by the dealership, as Sabre 
has told us, then I think she took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And in 
that case I cant say that Miss T made a misrepresentation and I think I was unfair for Sabre 
to then cancel her policy. 
Sabre has provided evidence from its underwriters to show that it wouldnt have offered 
cover to Miss T if her car was a 2020 model. But I also note that there is a dispute between 
the dealership and the DVLA about the cars year of manufacture. And Miss T has been 
unable to obtain insurance elsewhere for the car with the details on the DVLA database. 
While I think Sabre unfairly cancelled the policy as, under CIDRA, no misrepresentation took 
place, I dont think Sabre is responsible for Miss T being unable to obtain cover elsewhere. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied Sabre was entitled to cancel Miss Ts policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I think not allowing Sabre to rely on it to cancel Miss Ts policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Sabre cant offer Miss T a policy, but I think to restore her position, it should remove records 
of the unfair cancellation. And I think it should pay her £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset the unfair cancellation has caused.
Putting things right
I require Sabre Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the policys cancellation from any internal and external databases 
where its been recorded.
2. Pay Miss T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
cancellation of her policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sabre 
Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman