DRN-3921395
The complaint
Mr R complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) disposed of the salvage 
of his car resulting in a financial loss for him.  
What happened
Mr Rs car was stolen and subject to an arson attack. A separate complaint has been 
considered by our service regarding Mr Rs declined claim and the avoidance of his policy. I 
wont be considering that here. 
Mr R says Accredited disposed of his car as a category A total loss. Whereas he says it was 
actually a category B total loss. This meant undamaged parts could be salvaged and sold 
on. Mr R says he wanted to retain the salvage but was denied the opportunity due to errors 
and poor communication by Accredited. 
Accredited acknowledges that it incorrectly disposed of Mr Rs car as a category A total loss. 
It says this should have been a category B total loss. It says its salvage provider would have 
paid £560 for the salvage of Mr Rs car  had it been categorised correctly. It offered this 
amount to Mr R. He didnt think this was fair. He says there are parts of the car that arent 
damaged, and he could get a lot more for the salvage of these parts. 
Mr R says he rents a unit in a yard that has a breakers licence. He also says he has a trailer 
and knowledge of cars. He says he wouldve been able to use some of the parts on the car 
hes currently building. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says 
that based on the evidence Mr R had supplied he thought a payment of £1,000 was closer to 
the salvage Mr R couldve received for the usable parts of his salvaged car.
Mr R didnt think this was a fair outcome either. He sent screenshots showing second-hand 
car parts and their selling prices from an online platform in support of his argument. Our 
investigator didnt change his mind, so Mr R asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I wont be adding to the award our 
investigator set out, which I understand will be a disappointment to him. But I will explain 
why I think my decision is fair.
In its final response to Mr Rs complaint Accredited identified the salvage of Mr Rs car 
incorrectly as a category A total loss. It says this is defined as, All unrepairable fire  smoke 
damaged vehicles with no useable parts.  
Accredited says Mr Rs car was actually disposed of as a category B total loss. It explains 
the salvage was cleared as a category A total loss, but this was done in error. 
Usable parts from a category B total loss can be recycled. Mr R says there were many parts 
that could be used from the salvage of his car. He explains that hed worked on the car over 
the past six years and couldve used the parts in another car he is working on or sold them. I 
acknowledge his comments that he has lost out financially as a result of Accredited 
disposing of the salvage instead of returning it to him. 
Accredited offered Mr R the salvage payment it wouldve received had the salvage been 
disposed of correctly as a category B  but this is significantly less than Mr Rs estimate of 
what the salvaged parts were worth. 
Mr R has provided screen shots of numerous car parts for sale online. I acknowledge his 
view that the salvageable parts of his car are worth between £3,000 and £5,000. And his 
view that the information he provided supports this. 
Mr R told us that he had located the salvage yard that now owns the car. I asked if he could 
contact it and ask for details of the parts that are salvageable. As well as the value it placed 
on these parts. Ive seen information confirming the salvage yard has ownership of Mr Rs 
car. It has provided a list of some parts that are salvageable and others that it thinks might 
be. I asked Mr R if he could obtain a full list of salvageable parts to support his claim. 
Unfortunately, he hasnt been able to provide any further information for me to consider. 
We asked Accredited to comment on the information Mr R provided. It says that unless he 
owns a salvage recovery business, hed need to employ an agent to deem the parts legally 
safe for resale. It didnt think Mr R had shown that the salvage of his car was worth what he 
said it was. 
Ive thought about whether Accredited treated Mr R fairly when disposing of his car. I dont 
think it did. From the information Ive seen the business disposed of Mr Rs car under the 
wrong total loss category and did so without his permission. The car does have salvageable 
parts and Mr R explains he wouldve been in a position to use them on his next build  or he 
couldve sold them.
When the salvage yard contacted Mr R it said the following parts are salvageable (with 
selling prices), rear diff (£400), cradle rear (£225), wheels (£200), callipers front and back 
(£300), prop shaft (£50). It indicates there may be other parts that are salvageable, but it 
doesnt provide confirmation of this or the value.
I dont dispute Mr Rs view that there were salvageable parts he could have either used or 
arranged to be sold. The salvage yard indicates the value of usable parts was £1,175, which 
is in excess of the amount Accredited offered him. As discussed, Mr R wasnt able to provide 
any further information from the salvage yard to show if other parts could be used.  
Having considered all of this I think its reasonable for Accredited to increase the payment it 
offered Mr R based on the information received from the salvage yard. I acknowledge its 
point that any salvaged parts would need approving as legally safe for resale. Its likely that 
Mr R would incur some costs if he arranged for parts to be sold. But he would also have had 
the opportunity to use the parts he needed for the car hes building. So, I think its 
reasonable to accept there were salvageable parts that Accredited disposed of unfairly and 
this has disadvantaged Mr R. 
In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that £1,000 represents a fair payment 
for the salvage of Mr Rs car.In summary I dont think Accredited treated Mr R fairly when incorrectly confirming his car 
was a Category A total loss and disposing of the salvage. To put this right it should pay him 
a total of £1,000 for the salvage of his car.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited 
should:
pay Mr R a total of £1,000 for the salvage of his car.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman