DRN-2939708
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to HSBCs delay and 
ultimate declining of their request to extend their mortgage offer.
What happened
In 2019 Mr T and Mrs T obtained an interest only home loan offer from HSBC which they 
accepted on 28 October 2019. The terms were that they could borrow £350,000 over a 15-
year term to assist with their intended purchase of a second home, secured on their first 
home. By letter dated 1 November 2019 HSBC advised Mr T and Mrs T that funds would 
need to be sent to them before 17 April 2020 which was the expiry date for their application. 
A further letter dated 16 March 2020 advised Mr T and Mrs T that if the funds were not 
drawn down by 17 April 2020 the mortgage application would be cancelled.
Having found a property to buy, but at a point when the loan offer was approaching expiry, 
Mr T said he had to decide whether to draw down funds or cancel the application and make 
a fresh one, because it looked like the purchase would not be completed before the offer 
expired. Mr T and Mrs T said HSBC would only allow them to make a fresh application if 
they first cancelled the existing one, which they werent prepared to do as they were 
concerned that because of the Covid19 pandemic they may not get another, thus potentially 
leading to the loss of their proposed purchase. Mr T and Mrs T decided to draw down funds 
under the existing loan offer on 15 April 2020, but the house purchase did not complete until 
1 July 2020. Mr T and Mrs T feel that they paid over £1,000 in interest that they neednt have 
paid if HSBC had agreed to extend the mortgage offer.
HSBC accept that Mr T and Mrs T approached it with a request to extend the mortgage offer 
which it had declined because it was not within their policy to do so. Further, it had advised 
that a new application could only be made if the existing application was first cancelled, once 
again in line with their policy. HSBC also accepted that there was a delay in making a 
decision about extending the loan application period and for that it apologised and offered 
and Mr T and Mrs T £150 compensation. 
Mr T and Mrs T were unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that HSBC hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
There are essentially two major issues to this complaint, the first being HSBCs decision not 
to extend the loan application period and the second being its decision not to allow Mr T and 
Mrs T to make a second application unless they first cancelled the original application.
The starting point must be a consideration of what was originally agreed. The clear 
documentary evidence shows that the loan application would expire if funds were not drawn 
down by 17 April 2020. In the context of this type of loan, I do not see any unfairness in a 
lender imposing a deadline by which funds must be drawn down. There has to be some 
certainty and finality to loan offers as they cannot be left open indefinitely since all manner of 
factors can and do change, such as interest rates changing or a borrowers financial 
circumstances changing. 
My next consideration is HSBCs action following Mr T and Mrs Ts request for an extension 
to the life of their application. I can see from the documentary evidence supplied that Mr T 
called HSBC on 1 April 2020 seeking such an extension and he was told someone would 
ring him back, but they didnt. This must be viewed in the context of the first national 
lockdown during the Covid 19 pandemic at a time when all businesses were experiencing 
severe disruption. That was outside of the control of HSBC, and whilst it certainly represents 
poor service, I think the context is relevant. 
When Mr T called HSBC again on 17 April 2020 he was told at that time that HSBC were 
working on offer extensions but at that point they werent available. Once again I think this 
is understandable given the disruption that businesses were facing.
But, I do accept that this placed Mr T and Mrs T in a difficult position because if they didnt 
choose to draw down the funds they would potentially be unable to secure future funding 
with a fresh application. But HSBC did reach a decision in May 2020 about its home loan 
application extensions, that being that it would not be offering them. Therefore, had HSBC 
been able to reach that decision sooner, the choice Mr T and Mrs T would have been faced 
with was whether to cancel their existing application and make a new one or draw down the 
funds. In other words, the choice would have been the same. And given that Mr T has 
explained that he didnt want to take the risk of potentially being without a loan offer, I think it 
is more likely than not that he would have made the same decision to draw down the funds.
I do understand that Mr T and Mrs T believe that HSBC should have changed their policies 
and procedures both as to the duration of the loan application period of six months and also 
as to not being able to have two applications open at any one time.
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that it followed its rules and procedures 
and is applying them fairly to all customers. I cant see that HSBC have acted otherwise than 
in accordance with its procedures and policies. I know Mr T has said that he was unaware of 
HSBCs policies and these werent drawn to his attention, but I dont think that is reasonable 
to expect a business such as HSBC to notify its customers of all its policies. That would be 
disproportionate and unnecessarily burdening its customers with too much information. And 
as Ive said, Im satisfied it had made the timeframe for drawing down on the mortgage offer 
clear.
Putting aside the effects of the Pandemic for a moment, I dont think that it is unfair or 
unreasonable of HSBC to want to review or re-assess an application after a period of six months, and that is because a borrowers circumstances could well have changed and that 
might in turn affect the basis on which the loan had been agreed. Of course, during 
Pandemic times, I think this becomes even more relevant given the wider effects the 
Pandemic was likely to have on borrowers. So, I cant say that I think HSBC acted unfairly in 
declining Mr T and Mrs Ts request to extend the mortgage offer.
HSBC did however delay in making the decision about whether to extend the life of the loan 
application, and because of that it paid Mr T and Mrs T £150 in compensation. As Mr T and 
Mrs T didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought, 
and I think what HSBC paid is fair and reasonable. I know Mr T and Mrs T have said that 
they feel they should be compensated for the additional interest costs that they have been 
charged, but I dont think that is fair because ultimately it was Mr T and Mrs Ts decision to 
choose to draw down the funds rather than making a fresh application. And as I dont think 
HSBC acted unfairly in declining to extend the original mortgage offer I dont think it would 
be fair to expect HSBC to pay for the additional interest Mr T and Mrs T incurred in drawing 
down the funds.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid Mr T and Mrs T £150 to settle this complaint, and I 
think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything 
else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman