DRN-3694536
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way BISL Limited (BISL) acted when he asked them to make a 
policy adjustment. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr L enquired about adding his son to his existing motor insurance 
policy as a named driver. During this conversation, Mr L was asked a series of questions 
including if his son had any motoring convictions. Mr Ls answer to this and some of the 
other questions was  Not as far as I know. At the end of the call, BISL said they were 
prepared to make the adjustment and provided a quote. Mr L said he wanted to discuss it 
with his son first, so the adjustment was finalised during a later call. During which, Mr L 
confirmed none of the details hed previously provided had changed. 
The policy was renewed automatically, and Mr L didnt disclose any changes to his or the 
named drivers circumstances. In March 2022, a claim was made on the policy involving the 
named driver. At which point, the insurer established he had undisclosed motoring 
convictions. The policy was then avoided, and the claim declined on the grounds of 
misrepresentation. Mr L complained to his insurer as he didnt think hed been treated fairly, 
as that complaint is being considered separately, I wont comment on it here.
However, he also specifically complained to BISL about their actions. He said they shouldnt 
have accepted  Not as far as I know as a reasonable answer to their question about his 
sons motoring convictions. He said this response suggested uncertainty, so they should 
have encouraged him to check the accuracy of his answer or requested further information. 
In which case, the correct details would have been identified. He also said hed contacted 
five different companies and none of them would have acted in the same way as BISL.
BISL didnt uphold the complaint as they said they'd asked Mr L a clear question and acted 
reasonably by accepting his answer. An investigator at our service also felt BISL had acted 
fairly. So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to the relevant call recordings and Im satisfied Mr L was asked a series 
of clear questions about his son including if he had any motoring convictions. Mr Ls 
answer to this and some of the other questions was  Not as far as I know. His tone 
didnt suggest he felt uncertain and there was no delay in his response. So, I think 
BISL acted reasonably by proceeding to ask the next question. 
Mr L has suggested that replying,  Not as far as I know is the same as saying          
 I dont know or Im unsure. I disagree and think Mr Ls response was reasonably 
clear. It was therefore appropriate for BISLs adviser to treat it as a definitive no 
answer. I dont think it should have given them cause for concern or reason to 
question the answer further.
Mr L now feels he may have given a different answer if he was told to check the 
information with his son. However, the responsibility to check the accuracy of the 
information rested with him and not BISL. Mr L was required to answer BISLs 
questions to the best of his knowledge and belief. So, if he didnt feel suitably  
informed to answer the question, Id reasonably have expected him to have said this 
and asked his son. 
Even if I were to accept, Mr Ls logic that  Not as far as I know  meant he was   
unsure of the answer in that moment (rather than something he now feels with the 
benefit of hindsight) given the importance of providing accurate information, I would 
reasonably have expected him to have said this, rather than providing an answer or 
guess in any event. 
Mr L was asked a clear question and didnt declare any motoring convictions on 
behalf of his son, so Im satisfied it was reasonable for BISL to simply pass on this 
information to the insurer. I wouldnt have expected them to complete any further 
checks. I also note that following the policy adjustment, Mr L was sent revised policy 
documents which highlighted the importance of providing accurate information. As 
such, BISL did everything Id reasonably expect them to do.
I appreciate Mr L now regrets his answer and not taking the opportunity to check the 
information with his son. However, based on everything Ive considered, Im satisfied 
BISL acted reasonably by proceeding with the policy adjustment and relying on the 
information he gave. Mr L has said he believes other businesses would have acted 
differently, but Im only required to consider the way BISL acted in relation to this 
specific complaint and Im satisfied they didnt do anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman