DRN-2329306
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt inform her when she was no longer meeting 
the eligibility requirements to obtain interest and cashback on her current account. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Ms M holds an account with Santander. Some of the benefits of the account are that 
cashback will be paid on certain direct debits and also that a credit balance (within certain 
limits) will earn interest. The account also has a £5 monthly charge. But the terms also say 
that these benefits will only be payable on months where the eligibility requirements are 
met. One of these requirements is that the account is credited with at least £500 per month. 
Ms M had set up a standing order from another bank to credit her account with funds to meet 
this requirement each month. In late 2019, that standing order stopped. For a number of 
months Ms M therefore didnt meet the eligibility requirements and wasnt paid interest or 
cashback. In January 2020, Ms M noticed this and complained to Santander. 
Santander explained what had happened and didnt believe they were at fault. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill they credited Ms Ms account with £15 to reflect three months of the £5 
charge. Ms M wasnt satisfied with this response, she wants her cashback and interest to be 
backdated. She referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
Santander had acted in line with the account terms and fairly. She also thought reimbursing 
the monthly account charge was more than fair in the circumstances, so she didnt 
recommend that Santander needed to do anything further. 
Ms M still disagrees, she thinks Santander ought to alert customers when the requirements 
are no longer being met. She thinks this is something Santander could easily do and by 
failing to do so, they havent treated her and other customers fairly. Shes asked that an 
ombudsman review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The account terms are clear that benefits are only available for months where the 
eligibility requirements are met. I dont think this is unfair. Im satisfied that Santander 
acted in line with these terms when not paying interest or cashback for the months in 
question. I dont agree that these requirements are unfair terms as Ms M suggests. 
The terms are also clear that the monthly charge will apply every month, again I think 
this is fair and Ms M would have accepted these terms when opening her account. 
Ms M accepts her account is self-managed. And I think it was her responsibility to 
ensure the eligibility requirements were met if she wanted to benefit from the interest 
and cashback. I dont think Santander were obliged, either by the terms of the 
account or on the basis of fairness, to inform Ms M of the months where the 
requirements werent met. 
There is no suggestion that Santander are responsible for the standing order from 
Ms Ms other bank failing.
Santander acknowledged that Ms Ms suggestion to inform customers if the eligibility 
requirements arent met has been passed on internally for consideration. I think this 
is fair, and it isnt for our service to direct how Santander communicates with their 
customers. 
I dont believe Santander to be at fault in the circumstances of this complaints and I 
think reimbursing three of the monthly charges is more than fair in the circumstances.
Whilst I understand Ms M is disappointed to have lost out on three months of interest and 
cashback, this isnt something I think Santander are responsible for. So, Im not going to tell 
them they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman