DRN-1514500
Complaint
Miss T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled her car 
insurance. 
Background
Miss T took out her car insurance with Advantage on 15 December 2018 via a comparison 
website. The policy was in her name and her partner, Mr B, was a named driver. On 25 
September 2019, Mr B drove Miss Ts car into a body of water and the engine flooded. She 
logged a claim with Advantage who considered the car beyond economic repair. So it was 
written off. When reviewing the claim, Advantage completed a DVLA check on Miss T and 
Mr B. This showed Mr B had a driving conviction issued against him in January 2016. This 
wasnt disclosed when Miss T took out the policy.
Advantage reviewed Miss Ts policy and said had Mr Bs conviction been disclosed they 
wouldnt have offered her cover. So they declined the claim, voided the policy from inception 
and refunded the premiums Miss T had paid.
Miss T doesnt think this is fair. She accepts that her claim isnt going to be paid out. But 
says she wasnt aware of Mr Bs driving conviction. And shes concerned that shell have to 
declare to other insurers that shes had an insurance policy cancelled and that this will affect 
the cost of her insurance in the future. 
Miss T complained to Advantage who werent prepared to review their decision.
Miss T remained unhappy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the 
case and felt that the questions Miss T was asked when she took out the policy were clear. 
And by not disclosing the driving conviction, he felt that Miss T and Mr B had misrepresented 
themselves to Advantage. While the investigator accepted that Miss T wasnt aware of the 
driving conviction, he felt she should have asked Mr B about this before applying for the 
policy. So he didnt ask Advantage to do anything.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigators view. She said:
She didnt feel shed acted recklessly or carelessly.
When she applied for the policy she answered the questions put to her accurately 
based on the information available to her at the time.
She feels it would have been more reasonable for Mr B to be removed from her 
policy and for it to have continued in her name only.
 
The case has now come to me for a decision. 
 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone buys an insurance policy, theyre asked questions about themselves and 
what they want to insure. And at renewal theyre usually asked to confirm that the 
information previously provided and held by the insurer is correct. The insurer then uses this 
information to assess the risk of providing the cover applied for.
The relevant legislation here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act. This says that Miss T must be asked specific and clear questions when taking out, or 
renewing, an insurance policy. The act also says Miss T has a responsibility to take 
reasonable care when providing information to Advantage. If she didnt take reasonable 
care, then this is misrepresentation and I need to decide if her actions were careless, 
or deliberate and reckless.  If the misrepresentation is careless, and Advantage wouldnt 
have offered cover to Miss T, they can void the policy and refuse all claims. But the 
legislation says in these circumstances that Advantage must refund all premiums. 
I think Miss T was asked a clear question. She was asked:
Convictions - Have they had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, 
disqualifications or bans in the past 5 years?. As the wording of the question refers to 
they, this means all parties covered under the insurance being applied for.
And a pop-up box also said: 
Offence codes and penalty points are recorded against your driving record. Details for the 
last four years can be found by visiting www.gov.uk/view-drivinglicence. However, please 
note that insurance providers require you to declare up to five years driving history".
The screen shots Advantage provided from the website confirm these questions were asked. 
And I think the questions were clear and not misleading. 
The response Miss T gave was No. But this wasnt correct as Mr B had a driving 
conviction. When Advantage queried this with Miss T, she told them that she wasnt aware of 
the driving conviction. And that Mr B thought the conviction and points didnt need to be 
declared as they expired after a year. Advantage felt that while misrepresentation had taken 
place, this was careless rather than deliberate, and I agree.  
As Im satisfied the misrepresentation was careless, Ive considered what would have 
happened if Miss T had answered the question correctly. The evidence Ive seen confirms 
Advantage wouldnt have offered her cover. So I think they acted fairly, and in line with the 
relevant legislation and industry guidance, when declining the claim, voiding the policy and 
refunding Miss Ts premiums. 
I understand that Miss Ts says she entered the information she knew at the time. But she 
should have obtained the relevant information from Mr B after reading the questions put to 
her on the comparison website. Mr B has said he thought his conviction was no longer 
relevant. But this wasnt the case. While Miss T might not have been aware of Mr Bs 
conviction, this doesnt mean that Advantage hasnt acted correctly. They've accepted that 
Miss T didnt deliberately provide incorrect information and returned her premiums. 
So Advantage hasnt done anything wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything. 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint 
against Advantage Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept  
or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman