DRN-3482383
The complaint
Mr L complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), has unfairly rejected the claim that he has made under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr L and his wife bought a timeshare in March 2009 and Mr L entered a loan agreement with 
BPF to pay for the timeshare. The timeshare cost £25,000 and the loan was settled in 
September 2009.
Mr L made a claim to BPF under s.75 CCA. BPF responded saying the claim was raised too 
late and was time barred under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). Unhappy with this response, 
Mr L raised a complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr Ls claim 
was more than likely time barred under the LA, so she thought BPFs decision to decline the 
claim was fair. She said she looked at other provisions in the LA, but did not think there was 
anything that could extend the time limits within which Mr L had to make his claim.
Mr L disagreed with the findings and raised some further points to explain why he thought 
the claim was raised in time. The investigator then issued a second view, considering these 
additional points, but not changing the outcome of her original view. Mr L disagreed with her 
findings and requested the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator.
Mr L has asked BPF to consider a claim under s.75 CCA as he says the nature of the 
timeshare had been misrepresented to him. He says he would not have agreed to the 
purchase had the timeshare had these false representations not been made. 
In making a claim under the CCA, Mr L is seeking a legal remedy. That means BPF are able 
to consider any defences it may have to the claim, including those contained within the LA. 
For the avoidance of doubt, my role is not to determine whether BPFs defence would 
succeed if Mr L went to court, rather it is to consider whether BPF acted fairly in saying it had 
a defence to the claim.
Under s.75 CCA, Mr L would be able to bring a claim against BPF for the timeshare 
providers misrepresentations on top of any claim he had against the timeshare provider 
directly. If the criteria for a claim under s.75 were met, I would expect BPF to consider that 
claim. However, if the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be able to rely on the LA as a defence, meaning it would not need to answer the substance 
of the claim brought. 
The time limit for a claim for misrepresentation is six years from the date on which the cause 
of action accrued (which is when everything needed to make a claim had occurred). I think 
that was the date in which he took out the timeshare. It was at that point that Mr L says he 
relied on the alleged false representations to enter into the timeshare agreement and was 
the point when he suffered a loss as he entered the loan agreement with BPF to pay for the 
timeshare. From this point, he would have had six years to bring a claim against the 
timeshare supplier or BPF, but he did not make a claim against BPF until November 2017, 
which is outside the time limits set out in the LA.
Mr L says he only became aware he could make a claim after he researched the timeshare 
supplier online and found others had experienced problems too. The time limits for some 
kinds of claims under some sections of the LA are extended where a claimant does not have 
the knowledge at the time a cause of action accrued. But I do not think those sections of the 
LA are applicable to Mr Ls claim. I have also thought about whether there are any other 
claims that Mr L could have brought against BPF under the CCA based on the same 
concerns, but I do not think there are.
While I sympathise with Mr L for the issues he has had with his timeshare, I think that BPF 
acted fairly in turning down his claim. So I do not think it needs to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I amm required to ask Mr L to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman