DRN-3183798
The complaint
Mr W has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
invest in a Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG) . Mr W is represented 
in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In late 2013 Mr W was aged 52 and had a small pension and an endowment in addition to 
his main Aegon pension. He was working as a service adviser earning £21,000pa and had 
£33,000 equity in a property, with no financial dependants. He was cold called and told he 
would receive great returns on investing in overseas property.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Ws pension, on 20 November 2013 a new 
employing company was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. And on 
2 December 2013 he signed terms of business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of 
advice in relation to TRG for the purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
From wider knowledge we have of similar transfers, Mr W would have been asked to sign  
an (undated) indicative investment form, setting out how much of his pension he was looking 
to invest in TRG and how much in CMIMs discretionary fund management (DFM) service. 
We know that the initial promotion in the scehme was carried out by Your Choice Pensions 
(YCP), with whom CMIM had signed an introducer agreement, 
On 2 January 2014 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Ws new employer with him 
as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The fee to set up the 
SSAS was £750+VAT plus £500+VAT annually (which has since been reduced to 
£250+VAT, increasing at RPI). 
CMIM has provided a copy of a dear Trustee letter which it says it allowed YCP to give to 
mutual clients at the same time as obtaining signatures on its terms of business. Those 
clients whove retained their own copy since 2013 appear to have received it under cover of 
a letter from YCP, which says it is enclosing written advice from CMIM on their chosen 
investment into commercial property in Cape Verde.
The dear Trustee letter doesnt refer to the trustee by name and mentions that the business 
has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with advice that it 
understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and furthermore, the TRG 
investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort. You may wish to take 
independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their 
investment should be invested directly within commercial property, and the remainder should be 
held in liquid investments. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification 
carefullyWe have not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities 
and accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as 
against other such investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you 
seek independent financial advice
The letter went on to propose CMIMs MVA Balanced Portfolio to provide the suggested 
diversification into other, lower risk investments.
On 6 February 2014 CGL requested the transfer from Mr Ws Aegon pension using forms 
hed signed on 7 January. It didnt receive the transfer proceeds of £58,339 until 14 May, 
potentially due to the heightened checks providers were carrying out to prevent pensions 
liberation/scams. We know that it was part of CGLs process for Mr W to then sign a letter 
confirming his instructions to invest in TRG were based on CMIMs advice. The standard 
wording in use by CGL at that time read as follows:
Prior to issuing this letter I have obtained and considered the advice letter [CMIM] has produced in 
relation to the Cape Verde investment opportunity. I believe [CMIM] to be an appropriately qualified advisor for the purposes of section 36 of the Pensions Act 1995, in relation to the 
question of whether that investment opportunity is satisfactory in termsof
( a ) its suitability as an investment in the SSAS, and
( b ) the need for diversification, in so far as is appropriate to the circumstances of the SSAS.
£37,200 of the transfer proceeds were invested in TRG, with £16,546 sent to CMIMs DFM 
service and the remainder left in cash. My understanding is that discounts were to be offered 
on the TRG purchase, paid back to investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa until the resort 
opened. In Mr Ws case, he received a payments of £217 per month back from TRG until 
January 2016, and this was then replaced by variable payments of a little over £100 per 
quarter from May 2016 onwards. These payments started to dry up in 2019.
In January 2015 Mr W was advised, apparently by Organic Investment Management, to 
switch his holding in the CMIM DFM arrangement to Organics DFM. On the Organic 
application form Mr W specified a medium high risk approach over a 10+ year investment 
term. The switch of £16,747 took place in February 2015 and then further payments were 
made into Organics DFM with the proceeds of the TRG payments.
In April 2016 Mr W made a partial withdrawal of £11,000 from Organic, which was paid to 
him as tax-free cash from the SSAS having turned age 55. There appear to be a few other 
smaller payments to Mr W subsequently  our investigator can provide evidence of these to 
CMIM.
The UK limited company via which Mr W invested into TRG had entered into separate 
contracts with developers to build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it. I gather 
these payments have since tailed off as the resort has proved unprofitable.
Mr W complained to CMIM in November 2020 that the investment in TRG was wholly 
inappropriate for his SSAS, and indeed the SSAS itself wasnt appropriate for him at all. 
CMIM didnt respond to the complaint and subsequently employed a legal representative to 
deal with it.
Our investigator spoke to Mr W directly. He told her that he was initially cold called on his 
way home from a trip. He was offered a pension review and after the call, three 
appointments were made for someone to come to his house. He understood he'd be 
investing in overseas property but he was told within 10 years, his pension would be worth 
£120,000 (having grown at 12% each year). He was never asked about his attitude to risk or 
how he would feel if he lost money. He was not an experienced investor and held one other 
small pension pot and an endowment. 
CMIM has made a number of submissions, both on this case and during the course of very 
similar complaints for other individuals. I summarise all of its points below:
Much of CMIMs data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and knew customers were in the 
process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. CMIMs only financial benefit 
arose out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It 
attended numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky and only appropriate when considered as part of a 
diverse portfolio where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its DFM 
services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk portfolio of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr W or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to DFM. 
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter appeared to be very close to the 
Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was placed on this 
letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they also had their 
own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCAhandbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulatedadvice.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
CGL has clarified to this service that, Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme 
administrator, we would fully expect that the trustee would consider advice. The investment 
advice wouldnt necessarily need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be 
from a person or firm that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
In summary, our investigator took the view that CMIM should have advised Mr W not to 
invest in TRG: firstly because it was unsuitable for him as an unsophisticated investor, but 
secondly because to do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions. And as a result of 
CMIM acting differently, Mr W likely would have decided against transferring his Aegon 
pension to the SSAS at all.
CMIM has responded by way of letters covering several complaints simultaneously. It didnt 
agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous submissions. 
The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for any DFM investment.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr W did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr W were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr W to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr W to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Ws loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Ws losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr W to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W signed terms of business with CMIM that said he would receive advice on the TRG 
investment. We know this advice was provided in all similar cases by way of YCP passing on 
the dear Trustee letter to the client, and CMIM has given us a copy of said letter in 
response to Mr Ws complaint. So, Im persuaded on balance that Mr W received one of 
these letters.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr W to invest in TRG?
Im satisfied that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of advising on investments. This 
is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as 
advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mr W would be participating in a (named) pooled property 
scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole. 
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Ws investment by to meet that definition.
I dont think there is a plausible argument here that in the dear Trustee letter CMIM wasnt, 
at least, carrying out the regulated activity of advising on investments. As CMIM said, it 
attended numerous preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed 
documentation regarding the investment to ensure it was suitable for SSAS investment and 
as to risk. However, advice given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt 
caught by chapter 9 of COBS  the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And its dear Trustee letter reminds Mr W that it hadnt 
assessed those circumstances.
The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
I have to take into account that CMIM told Mr W it wasnt making a personal 
recommendation; he knew he hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been 
done by it. So I think he ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt for 
him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as an 
appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr W felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have 
carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had contracted 
with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly a personal 
recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by 
it, separately, encouraging him to seek further independent advice. If it thought he was better 
off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised him at all. And its open to me to 
consider whether its advice complied with the regulators wider principles (set out at PRIN in 
the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9. But first, its important to note 
that as TRG was a UCIS (and CMIM accepts that it was), the restrictions to promotion at 
s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr W, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr W to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr W had already decided to invest in TRG and says the 
dear Trustee letter would not have been pivotal in his thinking. However I dont think that is 
relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at 
PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
( 1 ) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
( 2 ) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients  and I count Mr W in that 
category  to draw. I say this in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term: here Mr W 
was a long time from state pension age and was likely to leave most of his funds in 
place for some time yet  a ten year term was being discussed with the introducer;
- CMIM suggesting it was possible to mitigate the risks of TRG by diversifying: it then 
recommended a DFM portfolio to achieve said diversification;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr W to take his own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed 
him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if he wasnt cautious or needing
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way: CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment.
It would have been apparent to CMIM at the time that third parties had quite a lot of influence 
over what the trustees did; this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely 
to receive the DFM business if its advice tended to discourage the investment in TRG. I think 
that, given this clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in 
persuading Mr W to make the investment. CGL expected Mr W to sign an instruction 
declaring that he had regard for it in making his investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise 
this is what would follow, then it should have done - given it said it was giving its advice for 
the purposes of PA95.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Mr W was simply signing where a third party told him 
shouldnt have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs advice an 
inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the 
view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mr W to invest because of vested interests, yet it 
was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation 
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in 
certain circumstances. This demonstrates that advising on (and not just personally 
recommending) an investment could always have amounted to a promotion: the very nature 
of promotion means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual. And thats 
what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though YCP 
may also have promoted it originally, and even though CMIM didnt make a personal 
recommendation).
Did Mr W qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion? 
Mr W is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since.
We dont have evidence of when Mr W issued the investment instruction required by CGL 
and referring to CMIMs advice, or the precise date the dear Trustee letter was sent to him 
 although from other similar complaints Ive considered I think this is likely to be closer to 
when Mr W signed CMIMs terms of business on 2 December 2013 and certainly before the 
transfer from Aegon had completed.If Mr W received the dear Trustee letter before 1 January 2014, the only other relevant 
COBS exemption was a Category 2 person, being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the same group 
as the firm
Mr W was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly 
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e. 
activities which were regulated by the FCA). His agreement with CMIM specifically excluded 
such regulated activities, so he could not have met the definition of a newly accepted client.
If Mr W received the dear Trustee letter after 1 January 2014, the new exemption for 
solicited advice only allowed a promotion where the communication met all of the following 
requirements:
(a) the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on 
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Note 3 essentially said that anyone with a business relationship with the firm including an 
introducer or appointed representative, is connected to it. So its clear that YCPs introducer
agreement with CMIM would always have made this exclusion unavailable too. And I also 
cant see that any of the other, unaltered, exemptions were available under COBS 4.12.1R  
not least because Mr W doesnt appear to have been a high net worth or sophisticated 
investor and didnt have any of the other professions or roles specified.
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr W, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it 
ought reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to 
Mr W previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr W paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Mr W to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr W thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr W would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice.
Mr W was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. So I 
think he the most he would have reasonably understood was that he was getting an 
appropriately qualified opinion on whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in 
laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that 
Mr W was misled if CMIM now considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. 
And at a fundamental level, I dont think Mr Ws inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear 
Trustee letter materially alters the outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement in the eyes of the regulator depends in 
part on how it would be received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone 
(Mr W) that CMIM considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr W to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Ws investment 
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the 
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
Its difficult to see how it was possible for advice that was stated in the terms of business to 
enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of PA95 not to be 
personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and diversification, 
and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small size, most of the 
regulations in the secondary Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005 
dont cover Mr Ws SSAS. But regulation 7 does, and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in the investment instruction CGL would have required 
Mr W to sign. I cant fairly say it was possible for him to obtain advice on whether TRG was 
suitable, and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS, without a 
recommendation specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of that SSAS.
CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R 
(ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading). These 
COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still applied if CMIM was advising on 
investments. It was also bound by the following FCA Principles, to:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
- take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
- take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter were if its introducer 
passed it a signed copy of its terms of business, or it later learned the client signed up for its 
DFM service (which didnt happen in this case). That calls into question whether CMIM was 
adhering to Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care 
CMIM should take in formulating advice (whether thats a personal recommendation or not).
In observance of these principles and rules and the articulated s.36 purpose of its advice, I 
think there were only really two routes CMIM could reasonably take:
1 . Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore come into contact with clients like Mr W at all; or
2 . Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
- Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr W, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
- Note that if the recommendation was not to invest in TRG, this would not amount 
to promotion and so the restrictions on promotion wouldnt be breached.
- Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr W directly, rather than supplying it via 
third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach 
Mr W, if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was in 
favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or indicated it would make 
direct recommendations against investing, I accept its possible that those parties would 
have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable outcome.
However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr W was required to take 
couldnt just be given by any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
( a ) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given 
by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of 
that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
( b ) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, 
typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice was more likely to be 
found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated adviser to be as 
mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So they too should 
have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal recommendation would be 
expected; and the consequences giving advice in favour of investing that couldnt be 
supported by a valid exemption.
Ive also taken into account that CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising
Mr W at all, but it chose to give advice. So, I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held 
to the standard of the proper personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr W to 
satisfy the regulators expectations and those reasonably implied by PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. It 
ought to have known that any investment in UCIS taking up a significant portion of a SSAS 
was plainly unsuitable for an inexperienced investor or one without a high attitude to risk.
It should have been reasonably apparent that with his low capacity for loss, making a 
transfer of his main pension, Mr W could ill afford to invest the majority of his SSAS in TRG. 
As an inexperienced investor, in my view Mr W is unlikely to have been in a position to  
appreciate this for himself. There was nothing about TRG in particular  being an off-plan, 
offshore property development subject to a variety of currency, counterparty, construction 
and occupancy risks  to counter the presumption of unsuitability for someone in Mr Ws circumstances. 
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being introduced to Mr W by other parties 
was in order to invest in TRG. So I need to consider how Mr W would have acted, if CMIM 
had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG.
I find it unlikely that the other parties involved would have been interested in him proceeding 
to transfer to the SSAS if that didnt entail a TRG investment. To secure that investment they 
needed advice in favour of it to fulfil Mr Ws PA95 obligations, and as I said above I think its 
reasonable to conclude that other regulated firms should also have advised against TRG.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme 
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such 
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It would also 
have played further into the checks Aegon was likely carrying out to mitigate against pension 
liberation/scams.
As CMIM itself realises, its name was brought on board to legitimise the proposed 
investment in TRG. But CMIMs advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It 
should have made very clear that it was unsuitable for him. Once that opinion had been 
given I cant safely say it could easily have been undone by any attempts to refer Mr W to 
other advisers, such that he would then have still been prepared to invest in TRG after all. 
And if Mr W decided against investing in TRG, it wasnt too late for him to abort the transfer 
altogether because Aegon took some time to transfer his pension.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Ws losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee 
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know 
whether Mr W intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational 
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a 
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and 
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mr W has chosen to bring this 
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Ws own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. 
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr W as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it 
shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr W would have chosen to invest in TRG come what 
may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him to CMIM. 
Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say that on the 
balance of probabilities Mr W would still have gone ahead with investing in TRG, had CMIM 
treated him fairly.
I think its likely Mr W would have heeded the proper advice he was told he would get, and 
was entitled to expect, from CMIM. Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that he 
would have aborted the transfer from his Aegon pension. We look at each complaint on its 
own merits  so if an investigator has taken a different view on causation on another 
complaint, then either party may refer that view to an ombudsman. I may not have agreed 
with that view.Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr W in the position he would have been in, 
had he not gone ahead with the transfer from Aegon to the SSAS.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Aegon to obtain a 
notional value for Mr Ws former policy as at the date of my final decision, assuming that it 
continued to be invested in the same funds it was at the point it was transferred out. As a 
condition of accepting this decision, Mr W will need to give CMIM his authority to obtain this 
value and also up to date details of all withdrawals made from the Cantwell Grove SSAS. 
The gross amounts of any withdrawals will all need to be allowed for accordingly in the 
notional value requested.
The actual value of Mr Ws CGL SSAS (including the current proceeds of the DFM 
arrangements used) as at the date of my final decision should be deducted from the notional 
value to arrive at Mr Ws initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding administration 
charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That seems to be the case with the TRG holding in the 
CGL SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of it. The actual value used in the calculations should include anything 
CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS. The fractional ownership company, as a member of
which Mr W holds the TRG investment, should be consulted to achieve this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the investment from CGL SSAS it should give 
them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. In that event its also fair that 
Mr W should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS 
and move to a potentially cheaper arrangement. I recently asked the investigator to 
remind CMIM on this case that to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS administration fees at the current tariff to 
the initial loss amount, to give a reasonable period of time for the SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS.
I also cannot anticipate whether TRG and/or the fractional membership company will be 
permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to 
the extent that this is possible, CMIM will have benefited from any value it thinks remains in 
the investment by buying it out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the 
investment, it may ask Mr W instead to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mr Ws losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need 
to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Mr W to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensationIf there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
initial loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax protections or 
allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay it direct to 
Mr W. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
Apart from on any fraction corresponding to the amount of his SSAS (if any) which he hasnt 
crystallised to take a tax-free cash sum - for which there would be no reduction.
CMIM must also pay Mr W £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr W in a 
clear, simple format.
If Aegon cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for this policy 
and switch that for the notional value in its calculations. Based on the growth objectives 
specified for his Organic portfolio and the investment horizon he had of at least 10 years for 
most of his funds, Mr W seems to have been willing to take some risk to get a higher return. 
So I consider that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Index on a Total Return basis 
would be the appropriate benchmark to use.
This index is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities 
and government bonds. It doesnt mean that Mr W would specifically have made 
investments that exactly mirrored the return on this benchmark. For that reason CMIM 
should not be deducting investment costs or other charges from the benchmark. The view 
Im taking here is that the sort of funds Mr W would have remained invested in with Aegon (if 
a notional value is unavailable) would typically have performed broadly in line with this 
benchmark; notwithstanding the charges (which would have been lower than the SSAS in 
any event). It is a proxy that is being used for the purposes of compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or gains in the DFM portfolio form part of Mr Ws overall loss. I 
note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio 
was appropriate, which it cannot vouch for in the subsequent reinvestment. But Ive reached 
the conclusion that Mr W would have had no reason to be transferring his pension from 
Aegon at all, but for CMIMs failings  and I dont think it likely Aegon would have permitted 
DFM in the type of plan Mr W held. He did, in any event, withdraw the majority of the DFM 
portfolio as tax-free cash shortly after it switched to Organic.
So including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Mr W back into 
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider which it seems were encouraged by the very same 
third parties which CMIM had agreed to get involved with (in a way which did not act in the 
best interests of Mr W and its other clients).
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Ws loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Ws rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay him compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above. If Mr W accepts 
this decision and compensation is not paid within 28 days of CMIM being notified of his 
acceptance, interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of the final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman