DRN-3881710
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded a payment she made. 
What happened
In September 2021, Miss S paid a £50 deposit to a company offering her a photoshoot to 
assess her suitability for a career in modelling. On the day of the shoot, Miss S paid a further 
£950 using her Lloyds debit card. The additional fee was for a package which she says was 
for a portfolio of images and a website to host them on. 
Miss S contacted Lloyds for assistance in getting her money back. She told Lloyds that she 
was concerned shed been the victim of a scam. She initially said that she hadnt received 
what she had paid for and later told Lloyds she didnt recognise the transaction at all. Lloyds 
contacted the company who responded with evidence demonstrating it had provided Miss S 
with the images and that shed received them. Lloyds said it therefore couldnt assist Miss S 
any further, this is because she had authorised the payment and had received what she had 
paid for. Miss S raised a complaint about Lloyds not refunding her, but Lloyds didnt uphold 
that complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Lloyds had 
acted unfairly in the way it had dealt with Miss S request for a refund. 
Miss S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S made a payment using her debit card issued by Lloyds. Ive therefore thought about 
whether Lloyds treated her fairly when she asked for help with getting her money back in 
relation to that payment. 
The chargeback process is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved 
between card issuers (e.g. Lloyds) and merchants (e.g. the supplier Miss S paid). The rules 
for what payments can be processed through chargeback are set by the card scheme, not 
Lloyds, and these set out that each transaction can only be disputed once. There are 
different reasons a chargeback can be processed, such as that the transaction wasnt 
authorised or the goods/services purchased werent provided. 
Lloyds says Miss S initially contacted them to say she wanted Lloyds to block a pending 
transaction to the supplier because it hadnt provided the photos or website it promised. 
Lloyds says Miss S then said the supplier had said she should get them within one to three 
weeks, so Lloyds asked her to contact them again after that time if she hadnt received the 
promised goods. 
Lloyds says Miss S then contacted them again to say she didnt recognise the transaction at 
all and that she hadnt authorised those payments to be taken. Lloyds says it asked her if 
she was sure this was the case as it could only dispute the payment once and if she later 
recognised it, Lloyds wouldnt be able to raise a new dispute for a different reason. Lloyds 
says Miss S confirmed that she didnt recognise the transaction and hadnt authorised it, so 
Lloyds processed a chargeback for this reason. 
The supplier responded to that chargeback request and provided a copy of Miss S drivers 
licence to show she had engaged with the transaction and evidence that she had received 
the photos that she had paid for. Lloyds therefore concluded it couldnt pursue the 
chargeback any further as the supplier had adequately defended it. 
Miss S told us she wasnt clear about the difference between a scam and fraud when she 
spoke to Lloyds and while I dont doubt that, it seems she did give Lloyds some misleading 
information about whether or not she recognised the transaction and had authorised it. So, 
I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in processing a chargeback in the way that it did.  
However, I think even if Lloyds had used a different reason for the chargeback it would still 
likely have failed. This means I dont think Miss S has lost out in any event due to the way 
the chargeback was processed.  
I say this because the supplier was able to show that Miss S received what she had paid for. 
While there is no mention of the website in the suppliers response, this seems to be 
because it was responding to a chargeback claim about the authenticity of the transaction 
rather than that everything under the contract was provided. I think its likely it would have 
been able to provide similar evidence about the website if it had been asked to. 
I note Miss S says she was also promised guaranteed modelling work by the supplier and 
this is why she believes it was a scam. However, shes not been able to provide anything 
persuasive to demonstrate she was promised this as part of the contract. Further, in her 
initial conversations with Lloyds, I havent seen her make any references to guaranteed 
modelling work, only the photos and website. 
Miss S has provided us with reviews and links to information online about the supplier which 
she says demonstrates it is operating a scam. Our service is aware of modelling scams 
which have been publicised online and in the media. This service has also seen examples of 
those types of modelling scams previously. However, Im not persuaded that the 
circumstances Miss S describes and the evidence and information shes been able to 
provide in this particular case, mean that Lloyds acted unfairly in the way it handled her 
request for assistance in seeking a refund of what she paid.
While its possible Miss S was a victim of a scam, in the specific circumstances of this case, 
I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it tried to assist her to get her 
money back. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman