DRN-2756406
The complaint
Mr H complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly declined his claim 
under his household warranty.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Section 3 of the warranty says that in years 3 to 10, NHBC will pay the full cost of 
repairs to physical damage caused by a defect in certain parts of the property. A 
defect is essentially defined as a failure by the builder to meet NHBCs technical 
requirements  as set out in the relevant guidance
NHBC have investigated issues relating to vibrations and the floor previously, around 
January 2015, and reports were produced relating to NHBCs investigations in 2016 
and 2020. The issues were also considered further when NHBC produced an 
updated resolution report in 2021. Although damage was found, the reports have all 
concluded there has been no breach of NHBCs technical requirements
NHBCs reports say they previously carried out investigations that involved opening 
the floor up to check the presence of a perimeter timber support  and the spacing. 
They said their investigations showed the floor was correctly installed, and the 
supports were present, so they didnt believe incorrect construction of the floor to be 
the cause of the issues
In their 2021 update to the 2016 report, NHBC noted there had been a water leak in 
the area of concern. They believed it likely this damage resulted in the vibration issue 
as when the washing machine was used this may have damaged the flooring or 
timber supports 
Mr H said the investigations carried out by NHBC were inadequate. He believes a 
different problem with the floors construction is causing the issues  and has pointed 
to issues experienced by other flats in the same building
NHBC have provided me with several detailed reports which all concluded the 
damage to the floor, and the issues reported, are not related to its construction. Mr H 
hasnt provided any reports or further information that supports what hes said. So, 
having reviewed everything available to me, Im not persuaded what NHBC said is 
obviously wrong
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do no uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman