DRN-3095120
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the service she received from Barclays Bank Plc when she wanted to 
rearrange her loan repayments.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I havent set them all out 
again here. Instead Ive focused on the key points. 
Ms R has a personal loan with Barclays. Due to the Covid 19 pandemic and other personal 
circumstances, she had difficulties making her usual repayments and Barclays agreed a 
payment holiday, which was extended, and it ended mid-January 2021. 
Ms R phoned Barclays when her payment holiday was coming to an end, she asked to move 
the payment date to the beginning of the month, because she received her income at the 
end of the month, as such she said she wouldnt be able to make the payment in January. 
Ms R was told her repayment wasnt due until the middle of February 2021. Following this, 
Ms R spoke to Barclays on several occasions to try to rearrange her repayments, but they 
wouldnt change the date.
Ms R wasnt happy with the service she had from Barclays and she says she tried for four 
months to make arrangements to restart her monthly loan repayment. And she wasnt 
initially told the payment due date couldnt be changed. Ms R also says she couldnt afford 
her usual monthly instalment of around £249 and so tried to set up a standing order for £100 
but it wasnt done. 
Barclays acknowledged there had been delays and poor communication and paid Ms R £60 
compensation. It later agreed that Ms R was given incorrect information when she asked to 
change her payment date. It paid her an additional £75 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. But it said the date couldnt be moved because it had already 
been moved the maximum number of times it allowed. It also said it didnt set up the 
standing order because the income and expenditure assessment it carried out showed Ms R 
couldnt afford to pay the £100 she had wanted to. 
Our investigator didnt think Ms Rs complaint should be upheld. He said the compensation 
Barclays had already paid Ms R was fair and reasonable for any misunderstanding about 
changing her repayment date. But he also thought Barclays had informed her it couldnt 
change the payment date, and this was fair. Ms R doesnt agree with our investigator and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
I phoned Ms R to better understand her complaint and she explained that as well as the 
points already mentioned, she thinks Barclays mistakes made her fall into arrears on the 
loan. She also says the repayments werent taken because of Barclays errors, so thinks it 
should waive the additional interest she was charged during this period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms R for speaking with me about her complaint and assure her that 
Ive thought about everything she told me. While I havent addressed all her points directly, I 
have focused on what happened during the four months this complaint relates to and what I 
think is key to reaching a fair outcome. I do appreciate its been a very difficult and 
challenging time for Ms R. But I must put aside my feelings of empathy and look at this case 
impartially based on the evidence.
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms R but having thought about all thats been 
done, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. Ill explain 
why. 
Its clear Ms R is unhappy with the service shes had in relation to her loan. And Barclays 
have acknowledged Ms R was given incorrect information about making a change to the 
date her loan repayment would be taken. So, I wont go over this again here. Ive thought 
about whether its actions caused the arrears on the account and if its done enough to put 
things right for the mistakes it made.
Setting up a standing order
Ms R said she couldnt afford to make the repayments and wanted to set up a standing order 
to pay £100 towards the loan. In cases like this, I would expect Barclays to ensure that 
repaying the loan wouldnt leave Ms R without funds to cover her day to day expenses. If it 
finds that it would, I expect it to treat Ms R sympathetically and offer support where possible. 
It carried out an income and expenditure assessment and found at the time, Ms R didnt 
have any disposable income to use toward repaying her loan. It offered Ms R support and 
referred her to a debt advice charity, however Ms R didnt want to make use of these options 
at the time. Overall, I dont think it was unfair of Barclays not to set up the standing order if it 
thought the repayments were unaffordable or unmanageable for her. 
Its phone notes also show that an agent told Ms R she could make a manual over payment 
for the £100 or set up a standing order herself online if she wished to, and I dont think what 
the agent said was unreasonable. 
Ms R called again in March 2021 and I can see a further assessment was carried out which 
showed her financial situation had improved. It identified she had a disposable income of 
£41.65 so a payment agreement was put in place. However, at Ms Rs request the standing 
order was set up for £100 per month. So overall, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably 
and Im satisfied they treated Ms R fairly here.
Arrears
I understand Ms R feels that Barclays actions caused her account to go into arrears and 
accrue additional interest. Ms R says she wasnt told she would be charged interest during 
the period in which she tried to rearrange her repayment date. As such, she would like the 
interest waived for these months, but I dont think Barclays has to do this.
I accept Ms R was given incorrect and sometimes contradictory information, which I think will 
have been confusing to her. But Im satisfied Ms R was aware that her repayments were due 
to restart from February 2021, so I think Ms R ought to have known that payments would still 
need to be made. Ive listened to a phone call she had with Barclays in February 2021, 
during the conversation, the agent explains that even if a standing order were set up for the 
beginning of March, as Ms R requested, the payment for February would still need to be made or she would have missed a payment. So, Im satisfied Ms R was aware the payments 
still needed to be made regardless of the issues surrounding changing the date. 
Ms R has said she had the funds to make her repayment at the time and tried to. In fairness, 
during the phone call I listened to, Ms R does say she would like to make part of the 
payment, but through the course of the conversation its agreed she would need to speak to 
the complaints department, as such the payment wasnt made with this particular agent. But 
Ms R spoke with Barclays several times in February 2021, and I think she could have made 
a manual payment during any of these calls to ensure payments were made, but I cant see 
that she did. And I cant see that Barclays ever denied her the option to do so, so I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to hold it responsible for these arrears. 
Even if Barclays did all Ms R asked for, based on the available evidence, I dont think she 
had the funds to make her usual repayment of around £249, or the lesser amount she 
agreed to with Barclays. I say this because, its income and expenditure assessment showed 
Ms R couldnt afford to make the repayments. I understand she wanted to pay £100 a month 
by standing order, but this is still less than the monthly repayment she had agreed to when 
taking out her loan. And, once the standing order was set up in March 2021, to begin in April 
2021, Barclays have said this payment was also delayed by Ms R. So, on balance, I think its 
likely she would still have accrued interest on the outstanding amount. 
During the phone call I listened to, the agent also explains that there is additional interest 
charged if the repayment date is changed and Ms R responds to say that would be fine. Its 
phone notes indicate Ms R was told the same information by more than one agent. So, Im 
satisfied she would have been aware additional interest would be payable. When a payment 
is missed, as was the case here, the balance wouldnt reduce like it normally would, which 
means interest is charged on a higher outstanding balance. So, for these reasons, I dont 
think Barclays need to wave the interest it applied during this period.
Compensation
I appreciate Ms R was given incorrect information on a number of occasions, and this meant 
she had to call Barclays several times to try to get things in order. Its clear there was quite a 
bit of confusion caused and I think this will have been an additional stressor in what was 
already a really difficult time for Ms R and her family. Barclays acknowledged its mistakes, 
and it initially paid Ms R £60 for the service she received and later paid an additional £75 in 
compensation for the upset and the inconvenience it caused her. I find the mistakes it made 
were customer service related none of which caused any financial loss to Ms R. As such, I 
think this is fair compensation in all the circumstances. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont think Barclays need to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman