DRN-2729897
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled his motor insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr As car was written off following a road traffic collision with a third-party vehicle. UKI 
initially told Mr A the claim was going to be recorded as non-fault but a few days later it was 
changed to fault because the third-party driver disputed liability. 
Mr As policy provides motor legal protection and his claims team has appointed solicitors to 
deal with the matter of determining liability.  
The third-party driver wanted to provide a witness statement to support his version of events. 
Mr A says UKI waited an unreasonable amount of time for a statement which didnt 
materialise. Mr A is also unhappy that he wasnt sent the witness recorded statement, and 
that he had to repeatedly ask for the third-party engineers report.
UKI is the insurer for both parties. Mr A has concerns about UKIs ability to assess his claim 
fairly. 
Mr A raised concerns about a claim handlers ability to handle his claim as he was given the 
impression the handler was new and needed the support of more experienced colleagues. 
UKI investigated Mr As concerns. In its final response it said:
the third-party witness statement hasnt been accepted and so wont be considered 
as evidence.
the claim handler was competent and didnt make errors in how they handled the 
claim.
UKI had told Mr A in error that the third-partys engineer report couldnt be shared 
with him and offered £50 compensation to reflect this.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and said:
UKI is entitled to take over, defend and settle a claim as it seems fit. This is in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.  Its not for us to determine who is at fault  we 
can only look at whether UKIs investigation into the claim has been handled fairly.
A claim can be recorded as fault - even if the insured isnt to blame  where the 
insurer hasnt been able to recover its losses. 
Mr A and the third-partys claims are being dealt with by separate claims teams to 
avoid a conflict of interest  which the investigator considers to be a reasonable 
approach. 
There were delays during the claim, but this was because Mr As claims team were 
awaiting evidence from the third party  something UKI cant be held responsible for. 
£50 compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr A experienced by UKI not 
sharing the third-partys engineer report when he initially asked it to.
Mr A remained unhappy and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. I appreciate this has 
been, and continues to be, a stressful matter for Mr A  understandably, he wants it 
resolved. But as the investigator explained, I cant decide who is at fault in this claim  thats 
not within the remit of this service. But I can consider whether UKI has acted fairly in how its 
handled the claim so far.
UKI hasnt determined liability yet. As the third-party contested liability and provided 
evidence which differs to that of Mr As, UKI has referred the matter to a legal team which 
Im satisfied is reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Mr A had concerns about UKI using the third-partys witness statement as evidence, 
but UKI has confirmed in its final response letter that it wont be used. It said the third-party 
is no longer able to cooperate, and that the recorded statement wont be considered as 
evidence either. So, Im satisfied this addresses and resolves this point.
Mr A was frustrated at the length of time his claims team waited for the third-partys witness 
statement. Its now known the witness chose not to cooperate and so, a statement didnt 
materialise. But thats not something I can fairly hold UKI responsible for. UKI must review all 
the evidence from both parties in order to determine liability. So, I think it was reasonable for 
UKI to wait for a statement it had genuine reason to believe was going to be provided by the 
third-party witness. 
Mr A has said he was told that should the third-partys witness recorded statement not 
materialise, the claim would be settled as non-fault. I havent seen evidence to support this 
statement, but in any event, the third party has disputed liability. But in any case, liability is 
still being disputed and I think its therefore reasonable for UKI to have appointed solicitors to 
determine it.
It seems Mr As concerns as to the competency of the claim handler is no longer an issue. 
But for completeness - Ive not seen evidence to support Mr As suggestion that the claim 
handler wasnt able to manage his claim fairly. 
Given there is a finite number of motor insurers in the market, both parties being insured by 
the same provider is always a possibility. UKI has said Mr A and the third-partys claims are 
being dealt with by separate teams  so Im satisfied UKI has taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the claim is treated fairly.  
Mr A was unhappy that UKI didnt provide him with a copy of the third-party engineers report 
when he first asked for it. UKI should have provided the report at the time, and it has 
acknowledged this. Im satisfied £50 compensation fairly reflects the inconvenience Mr A 
experienced as a result of this, and so I wont be asking it to pay more. I know my decision will disappoint Mr A, but I hope Ive been able to explain why Im satisfied 
UKI has treated him fairly in dealing with this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman