DRN-3732606
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy PrePay Technologies Limited wont refund transactions he didnt make. 
PrePay Technologies Limited is the principal for Monese who Mr C banks with. So Ill mainly 
refer to Monese throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr C was contacted by someone pretending to be from Monese who convinced him 
to share some of his security details.
That day, several payments were attempted from Mr Cs account. I understand three 
successfully debited totalling £797.33. Monese declined to refund these saying Mr C 
didnt meet his responsibilities under the terms and conditions of the account. It did 
offer three months free on its Premium pricing plan as a gesture of its goodwill. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Monese has declined to refund Mr C because he provided his security information to 
an unknown third party in breach of the terms and conditions. 
But Monese cant contract out of its statutory requirements in the Payments Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), something thats made explicit in Regulation 137 of the 
PSRs. 
The PSRs starting position is that Mr C isnt liable for payments he didnt authorise. 
Monese hasnt disputed these were unauthorised transactions. So Ive gone on to 
consider section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, which explains that, except where a payer 
has acted fraudulently, Mr C isnt liable for unauthorised transactions where the 
payment instrument has been used in connection with a distance contract (other 
than an excepted contract). Again, Monese hasnt suggested Mr C acted 
fraudulently. Its also not disputed these were distance contracts or suggested that 
theyre excepted contracts. 
So, in line with the PSRs, I conclude that Mr C isnt liable for the transactions and 
Monese needs to put things right  by refunding his losses from these unauthorised 
transactions alongside interest to compensate him for the time hes been out of 
pocket.
Monese ought to have refunded this much sooner  and I can see the delay has 
caused Mr C to worry about his finances and put a strain on his mental health. So, in 
line with the investigators recommendation, I also award £100 to reflect his non-
financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. PrePay Technologies Limited 
must: 
Pay Mr C the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £797.33.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £100 for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman