DRN-4287452
The complaint
Mr H complains that MoneyGram International Limited (MoneyGram) refuses to refund him 
losses after he fell victim to a scam.
Mr H has a representative helping him with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr H says during lockdown while he was out of work, he decided to buy goods online to 
send to his brother in a foreign country for his brother to sell. Mr H looked online and came 
across two companies. After registering his details, he spoke to the scammer. Mr H says he 
was shown videos of the goods on sale and was offered a sample of sugar he was 
interested in buying. Mr H recognised the brand of the sugar so didnt require a sample. He 
eventually agreed to buy 100 metric tonnes of sugar for £12,000. Mr H was provided with 
invoices by the firm for the purchase and he continued to speak to the scammers via a 
popular chat function on his mobile. 
During the shipping process, Mr H was asked to pay additional costs including port fees, 
container insurance etc. Mr H was then put in touch with another scammer, who sold him 
some rice (after he was sent a sample). 
Between February 2021 to June 2021, Mr H made several payments to the scammer 
through MoneyGram. 
Mr H (through his representatives) has accepted his conversations through the chat function 
show that, after July 2021, Mr H had some serious concerns over these transactions. 
By September 2021, when no goods had arrived, Mr H realised hed been scammed. In the 
latter part of 2022, Mr H (through his representative) asked MoneyGram to refund the money 
he had lost. Mr H felt that MoneyGram ought to have intervened when he was sending the 
money and asked questions about what he was doing. Had it done so, it would have 
discovered the scam and stopped Mr H from sending the money. 
MoneyGram refused to refund the money Mr H had lost, saying it had done nothing wrong. It 
says that, as the money had already been paid out to the scammers, it could not refund the 
money to him. It said that the form completed by customers before sending money had a 
general warning about scams on it and Mr H would have used a form like this to send his 
money. 
Unhappy, Mr H referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened and didnt think MoneyGram should have to return the money to Mr H. He felt that 
the transactions Mr H sent were not significant enough to have warranted an intervention. 
And even if it had intervened, he didnt think MoneyGram would have discovered the scam.  
Mr H (through his representative) asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter re-iterating 
that he had been the victim of a scam, that MoneyGram ought to have intervened at least for 
his payment of £5,000. He felt that had MoneyGram asked questions, it would have 
discovered the scam for a number of reasons. For example, MoneyGram would have 
identified that hed only discovered the scammers online, that they were discussing business 
over a mobile chat function, and that hed been asked to send money via MoneyGram with 
little to no way of him getting his money back if anything went wrong. He felt it had all the 
markers of a scam. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 14 July 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. MoneyGram did not make any additional comments but 
Mr H (through his representative) did make some comments which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Firstly, Id like to explain that Im aware Mr H has raised these concerns against another 
bank. But this decision only relates to his complaint against MoneyGram. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as MoneyGram are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers are the 
victim of a scam (like Mr H), the starting point is that theyre responsible. To be clear, 
MoneyGram did not scam Mr H and it is not the perpetrator of the scam.
 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening with 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold MoneyGram liable for the 
losses instead of Mr H, Id need to be satisfied that MoneyGram failed in its duty to protect 
Mr H in some way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would 
have stopped the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses 
once notified of the potential scam (by retrieving the money, for example). 
As explained by our investigator, Mr Hs transaction history shows that the transactions were 
for relatively small amounts. There isnt a single transaction or a series of transactions in a 
short space of time, that I think ought to have triggered an intervention by MoneyGram. So, I 
dont think its unreasonable that MoneyGram didnt flag these transactions as unusual or 
suspicious. Due to the nature of the transactions, in my view, MoneyGram didnt 
unreasonably miss an opportunity to identify the scam. 
I understand Mr Hs representatives feel that a payment of £5,000 in May 2021 ought to 
have triggered an intervention. The transaction details from MoneyGram show this payment 
was USD $7,056.21 (which was £4,992.01). While that may be a lot of money for many 
people, in the context of the thousands of transactions processed by MoneyGram, the sum 
alone (in the absence of any other concerning factors) isnt enough to persuade me that 
MoneyGram ought to have intervened. By this time Mr H had sent several payments so the 
payee was established. I also have to bear in mind that Mr H didnt have a long history of 
activity for MoneyGram to review and assess whether this was unusual for him. I have to decide whether MoneyGram acted reasonably based on the information available to it at the 
time. 
As I dont think the payment was sufficiently unusual or suspicious, I dont think MoneyGram 
ought to have intervened and therefore couldnt have prevented the loss. So, like our 
investigator, I am of the view that MoneyGram didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the loss and therefore do not uphold this complaint. 
I understand our investigator also considered what would have happened if MoneyGram had 
intervened to talk to Mr H about the transaction. I have to stress that, as I dont think there 
should have been an intervention in any event, these points are largely academic. But for 
completeness I have considered the points made by Mr Hs representative. 
I accept that there were certain facts in the way Mr H was dealing with the scammers that 
might have appeared concerning, as set out by Mr Hs representative. But there were also 
factors that would equally have indicated that this may be a legitimate trade. This is also a 
relatively small trade being done internationally, not by large multinational corporations. I 
would add that, as explained by our investigator, this type of scam is not as well-known as 
other types (such as investment scams) with more obvious themes and trends that we would 
expect MoneyGram to look out for. 
At that stage of the scam, I dont think MoneyGram or Mr H had enough information to have 
identified that this was definitively a scam. At most, given the information that would have 
been available to MoneyGram, I think it could have simply given Mr H a warning, that there 
are risks associated with conducting business like this with a company he had found online, 
and paying for goods before receiving them. But this is something I think Mr H would have 
been aware of anyway. While any discussions may have given Mr H pause for thought, by 
his own admission, Mr H didnt have any concerns or suspicions until mid-July (almost 2 
months after this transaction). So, I think he would likely have sent the money anyway. 
Overall, as set out by our investigator, I dont think an intervention during this payment would 
have prevented the loss.
Nonetheless, as explained above, I dont think MoneyGram ought to have been obligated to 
have intervened in this transaction, so these considerations dont affect the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Overall, having looked at all the evidence provided, I dont think there was anything 
sufficiently unusual or suspicious happening on Mr Hs account that ought to have triggered 
an intervention from MoneyGram. Unfortunately, MoneyGram also wasnt able to recover the 
funds as the money had already likely been collected by the scammers in the destination 
country  so there was nothing further it could do for Mr H. 
Im very sorry Mr H has lost out financially and have no doubt that this has caused him 
significant distress. But as Ive said above, MoneyGram did not scam him, and I dont think it 
was ever presented with a realistic or reasonable opportunity to prevent the scam. So, as I 
cant say it unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the loss, I dont think it would be 
fair for it to be held liable for Mr Hs losses.
Mr H through his representative has said that the money he sent was a very large amount of 
money for him specifically, and he feels this should have led to questioning. Mr H reiterates 
that he was genuinely scammed. Mr Hs representative adds that the amount of money sent 
in May 2021, was just short of the figure this service has, in many cases, said is sufficient to 
warrant an intervention. 
Firstly, Id like to explain that there isnt a set figure that we think ought to trigger an 
intervention. Whether a transaction should trigger an intervention depends on a number of factors. For example, the amount being sent, a consumers usual account conduct, whether 
the payment was being sent to an established payee, any known or established fraud trends 
at the time etc. 
I understand that this was a significant amount of money for Mr H and I sympathise with his 
position. But businesses cannot intervene in every transaction so I hope Mr H will 
understand that they can only intervene if, the payments in question, are sufficiently unusual 
or suspicious that make it appropriate to do so. 
As Ive already explained in my provisional decision, I dont think there was enough here that 
ought to have triggered an intervention on the part of MoneyGram and my view of this 
remains unchanged. As I still dont think any of the transactions (including the one sent in 
May 2021) were sufficiently unusual or suspicious, I dont think MoneyGram acted 
unreasonably by not intervening before processing these payments. 
I would like to re-assure Mr H that I do not doubt that he was the genuine victim of a scam. 
But, as Ive previously explained, I cannot uphold his complaint solely because he was the 
victim of a scam. I could only uphold his complaint if I felt that MoneyGram had failed in its 
duty of care towards him in some way, and if it could have prevented the loss. For the 
reasons I have already set out, overall, I dont think MoneyGram unreasonably missed an 
opportunity to prevent the loss so I dont think it should be held liable for the losses suffered. 
 
Having reviewed everything submitted, while I am again very sorry for the losses suffered by 
Mr H, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman