DRN-3116700
The complaint
Mr T complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled his motor 
insurance claim unfairly and delayed its settlement.
What happened
On 3 October 2020, Mr T was unfortunately involved in a car accident. So, he asked 
Admiral to consider a claim for the damage to his car under the terms of his motor 
insurance policy.
Relatively quickly, Admiral arranged for Mr Ts coupe to be repaired and provided him 
with a small hatchback to use while this took place. Although the repairs were initially 
estimated to take a few days, Admirals engineers unfortunately couldnt complete them. 
They therefore arranged for Mr Ts car to be taken to a main dealership, where a 
manufacturing fault in relation to the steering rack was discovered. Over several months, 
four steering racks were ordered and fitted, but the problem remained unfixed. As a 
result, Mr T was told the manufacturers European office would liaise with the head office 
in the USA, and he would need to wait until some new software had been created, before 
his car could be returned to him.
Mr T first complained about this issue in November 2020, and Admiral paid him £50 
compensation to address some customer service issues. As time passed, Mr T continued 
to complain about the delay. On each occasion, Admiral said they were regularly in 
contact with the manufacturer, and would pass on updates to him, but they couldnt 
speed up the repair time or resolve the manufacturing fault as it was outside of their 
control. They also declined  Mr Ts request for a courtesy car more like his own, as they 
said they werent required to provide this under the terms of the policy. And, they declined 
Mr Ts request to write his vehicle off and offer him a cash settlement, as they said this 
would be uneconomical, as the manufacturing fault would be rectified for free. Finally, 
they suggested Mr T should consider raising a complaint with the manufacturer directly, 
due to his concerns about the amount of time they were taking.
In January 2021, Mr T raised a complaint with our service and repeated his request for 
his car to be written off. He said he was paying insurance for a sports car, but hed 
been left driving a small hatchback for a considerable number of months instead. He 
also said it wasnt fair he was asked to wait indefinitely for his car to be fixed, and he 
had no confidence a solution to the fault would ever be found.
An investigator at our service then considered the matter. She empathised with Mr Ts 
position but didnt uphold the complaint, as she said Admiral couldnt repair his car any 
faster. In response, Mr T requested a final decision. He accepted Admiral couldnt control 
the amount of time it was taking to resolve the manufacturing fault, but he felt Admiral 
should do more to help him independently of the manufacturer. In doing so, he highlighted 
Admirals obligation to respond to his claim promptly and fairly.
Mr Ts car has recently been returned to him - fully repaired and in good working order. 
However, he still feels let down by Admiral and thinks they should have done more to 
settle his claim sooner. Hes therefore asked that Admiral refund his insurance premiums 
for the months where he didnt have his car.
Provisional decision 
After reviewing this complaint, I issued a provisional decision which said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims 
promptly and fairly.
So, Ive carefully considered if Admiral reasonably complied with this guidance 
here. Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy and note that 
they say:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
Pay to repair your car, or
Pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the 
settlement, or ask you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts 
replaced were already worn or damaged or for audio/visual equipment that 
has been removed from your car.
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
As Mr Ts car has recently been repaired to a satisfactory quality, the question of 
whether it should be written off now falls away. However, I have carefully considered 
whether I think Admiral treated Mr T fairly, and if they could and should have 
reasonably settled his claim earlier.
I accept Admiral were in a difficult position. Their own engineers hadnt been able to 
restore Mr Ts car to its pre-accident condition, and they couldnt influence the speed at 
which the manufacturer found a solution to the steering rack fault. The delay in fixing Mr 
Ts car therefore fell outside of Admirals control. However, despite this, I do think 
Admiral could and should reasonably have done more to assist Mr T and settle the 
claim faster.
As mentioned above, Admiral had a responsibility to handle Mr Ts claim promptly and 
fairly. While it isnt unusual for repairs to sometimes take longer than expected, I do 
think the time frame here  approximately 11 months  was excessive. I also note that 
for most of that time, it was unclear if the manufacturer would be able to find a solution. 
The only thing Admiral or Mr T knew for certain, was the manufacturer was actively 
working on it, and the initial, multiple repair attempts had unfortunately been 
unsuccessful.
I appreciate Admiral complied with their policy terms, by supplying a small hatchback as a courtesy car, and werent obligated to provide anything more than this. But this meant 
Mr T was left driving a car that was considerably different to his own for the best part of 
a year. And, despite highlighting the inconvenience and upset this was causing him  
he was simply told to wait and to complain to the manufacturer directly. Under the 
circumstances, I dont think this was fair.
Admiral have said they couldnt settle the claim by writing off the car, unless they 
received confirmation from the manufacturer that a repair wasnt going to be 
possible. Theyve also said writing off Mr Ts car wouldnt have been economical. I 
acknowledge these considerations and appreciate the manufacturer had agreed to 
rectify the fault for free. However, I dont think this meant Admiral were prevented 
from making a decision independently of the manufacturer, or that it was reasonable 
for them to leave Mr T waiting indefinitely for a solution to be found. Admiral could, 
and I think here should have settled the claim earlier. So, given the amount of time 
that had passed, and the amount of distress and inconvenience Mr T was 
experiencing - I do think it would have been appropriate for Admiral to have allowed 
Mr T to cash settle the claim as he requested.
A motor insurance claim will always involve some level of unavoidable worry, stress 
and inconvenience. However, Im satisfied the distress and inconvenience Mr T 
experienced here went beyond this. I accept Admiral couldnt have provided a solution 
to the manufacturing fault any faster. It was also reasonable for them to pursue a fix in 
the first instance. But, when a repair didnt materialise after several months, Mr T was 
left in a very inconvenient and upsetting situation, which Admiral could reasonably have 
avoided by providing a cash settlement. After all, it was Admirals responsibility to settle 
Mr Ts claim, not the manufacturers. So, Im currently minded to direct Admiral to pay 
Mr T a further £300 compensation to reflect this distress and inconvenience.
Im aware Mr T feels he should receive a refund of his insurance premiums. However, 
as Mr T agreed to pay these at the start of the policy, and because Admiral have 
continued to provide him with insurance, and ultimately did repair his car  I dont 
think a refund would be appropriate. 
Reponses to my provisional decision 
Admiral and Mr T both responded to my provisional decision. 
Admiral didnt agree with my findings and said they didnt think any additional compensation 
should be paid. They said they'd settled the claim fairly and they couldnt control the amount 
of time the successful repair had taken. They also said it wasnt appropriate to cash settle 
the claim given a repair was possible. 
Mr T said he was happy his distress and inconvenience had been recognised but asked 
that I increase the compensation amount to £500. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
As Ive explained above, I know Admiral were in a difficult situation. They werent 
responsible for the manufacturing fault, but I dont think it's fair they left Mr T waiting 
indefinitely for his car to be repaired. So, based on the specific circumstances of this claim, I 
do think Admiral should reasonably have provided Mr T with a cash settlement - despite an eventual repair remaining a possibility. Im also satisfied additional compensation would be 
fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr T experienced because of this matter.  
I appreciate the reasons Mr T has asked for £500 compensation. This matter has been long 
lasting, inconvenient and upsetting. However, having carefully considered everything thats 
happened and the impact of Admirals actions, I do think £350 compensation is a fair amount 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr T £300 
compensation. This amount is in addition to the £50 compensation they've already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman