DRN-3668521
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nugenis Financial Planning Limited failed to progress the transfer of his 
pension savings to a new provider in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr J holds pension savings on which he has been provided with support and advice by 
Nugenis since 2015. The complaint relates to advice he was given by Nugenis in July 2021 
regarding the transfer of those pension savings to a new provider.
Mr Js pension savings were originally held in a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with 
a firm that I will call H. The advice he received from Nugenis recommended that he should 
transfer those pension savings to a new SIPP provided by a firm I will call E. Before the 
transfer Mr Js pension savings were invested by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). The 
advice he was given was that he should continue to use that DFM, and the same investment 
strategy, following the transfer to E.
Mr J accepted Nugenis advice and was given the required transfer paperwork for his 
completion. He signed those forms on 8 September 2021 and returned them to Nugenis by 
post. Nugenis says that its records show that it received Mr Js completed transfer 
paperwork on 14 September.
Nugenis says that, at the time the transfer forms were received, it noticed that Mr J hadnt 
provided a signed Letter of Engagement document for its services. But it says that it took a 
commercial decision to allow the process to continue regardless. Nugenis sent Mr Js 
completed transfer request to E on 23 September.
After E had requested the transfer from H, it received the transferred funds on 29 October. 
Nugenis wrote to Mr J to confirm those funds had been invested in line with his agreed 
investment strategy.
Mr Js complaint is that the delay caused by Nugenis, between its receipt of his signed 
transfer paperwork on 14 September, and it being forwarded to E on 23 September, meant 
the value of his transferred pension savings had fallen. He said that, if he had been aware of 
that delay he would have asked Nugenis to cancel the transfer. He said he had been 
sceptical of the proposal for an extended period of time, and saw little cost benefit in making 
the transfer.
Mr Js complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the time 
Nugenis had taken to process Mr Js transfer request had been reasonable. So he didnt 
think Nugenis had done anything wrong, or that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr J didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr J and by Nugenis. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There are three regulated businesses involved in the activities that underpin this complaint. 
Nugenis acted as Mr Js financial advisor. But it couldnt actively manage the transfer 
process. It needed to send Mr Js authority to E. And E would then need to request the 
transfer to be completed by H. So it is entirely possible that each firm might have been 
responsible for some or all of any delays that Mr J says happened on his transfer. But Mr Js 
complaint is only about the actions of Nugenis. So, in this decision, my findings will be 
limited to the actions of that firm.
Mr J met with Nugenis in July 2021. It was during that meeting that Nugenis would have 
discussed the merits, and potential pitfalls, of the proposed transfer with him. There is no 
recording, or transcript, of those discussions, so I have no way of knowing for certain what 
Mr J was told. I am therefore largely reliant on the suitability report that was produced 
following the meeting and provided to Mr J. I am satisfied that, particularly given Mr Js close 
attention to the details of this complaint, he would have questioned the content of that report 
when he received it had it not fairly represented the discussions he had with Nugenis.
Nugenis identified that Mr J was unhappy with the content of the online access that was 
provided by H to his pension savings. And Nugenis told Mr J that it too was concerned about 
the administrative performance of H in relation to pension savings held by some of its other 
clients. It noted that another provider, E, offered a SIPP that could be operated in 
conjunction with the DFM, and offered better administration services and better functionality. 
And it said the SIPP might offer Mr J some cost savings both in terms of the annual 
management charges he paid, and when he started to take his pension benefits at 
retirement.
But the report also noted that there were some downsides to the proposed transfer. It made 
Mr J aware that he would need to pay a relatively modest fee to H for the transfer. And it 
warned Mr J that, since the transfer would be made in cash, there would be a period of time 
when his pension savings werent invested in the market. It told him there was a risk that, if 
the market rose during that time, he might experience some reduction in their value.
So, although it doesnt specifically form part of Mr Js complaint, I am satisfied that the 
advice he was given by Nugenis, to transfer his pension savings, was reasonable. Nugenis 
didnt make any charge for the advice it gave him, above its normal annual charges, and the 
cost for making the transfer imposed by H would be recouped in less than a year by the lower charges of the new provider. I think the information Nugenis gave to Mr J at that time 
made him sufficiently aware that there might be a short time when he was out of the market.
The sale of Mr Js pension investments, in order for the transfer to be made in cash, would 
be managed by H. Once H had received the instruction from E for the transfer to commence, 
it would be Hs normal processing times that dictated the timeline. I think the only 
expectation it might be reasonable for Mr J to have in terms of that timeline was that the 
cash be transferred to E as soon as possible after his pension investments had been sold. 
That would ensure the time he was out of the market  and so the potential for any losses 
caused by market price movements  was minimised.
But as can be seen from the timings I set out earlier, it was more than a month between 
Nugenis sending the transfer paperwork to E, and the funds being received from H. 
However, as I explained earlier, neither of those two firms are the subject of this complaint. 
And so I am not considering what happened in that part of the transfer process. If Mr J has 
concerns over how that part of his transfer was handled he might want to discuss those with 
the two firms that administered his SIPPs.
It took Nugenis seven working days to pass Mr Js transfer application onto E. Im not 
persuaded that it would be reasonable to conclude that length of time was excessive. And 
even more so given that Mr J had failed to return the signed Terms of Engagement 
document leaving Nugenis to take a commercial decision whether or not to continue advising 
him at that time. On balance I dont think that Nugenis failed to provide a reasonable level of 
service to Mr J.
Mr J is concerned that, during those seven working days, the value of his pension 
investments fell. But I dont think that is the correct assessment of whether or not any loss 
occurred. As Ive explained earlier, Nugenis activities were only the first part of the transfer 
process. And it is likely that Mr Js pension investments werent actually sold until much 
closer to the date at which H sent the funds to E. And given that the transferred funds were 
immediately reinvested when they reached E, on the same basis as they had been invested 
when held by H, I think any sale losses are likely to have been largely offset by cheaper 
reinvestment costs.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the advice Nugenis provided to Mr J was suitable, and the 
information was sufficient for him to be aware of the possible risks in the transfer process. 
I think that Nugenis performed the activities it was responsible for on the transfer in a timely 
manner. So I dont think that Nugenis has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Nugenis Financial Planning Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman