DRN-3538581
The complaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited continued to make marketing calls 
to sell him another fixed sum loan when his current agreement came to an end, despite his 
repeated requests that it didnt do so.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr P entered into a Virgin Mobile Loan for 36 months. This credit agreement 
was a fixed sum loan that had to be used to purchase a device from Virgin Mobile Telecoms 
Limited.
Mr P says that as this credit agreement was coming to an end, he received a number of 
marketing calls from Virgin seeking to renew the agreement with him. He says that he was 
clear he didnt want to receive these calls and asked that his phone number was removed 
from Virgins marketing database. He says that despite making this request on four 
occasions the marketing calls continued to be made. Mr P made a complaint to Virgin in 
April 2021.
Virgin responded to Mr Ps complaint the following day. It said it was closing his complaint 
and advised him to contact its customer service department for assistance. Mr P was 
unhappy at Virgins response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She said she could 
appreciate Mr Ps frustration at receiving marketing calls especially after hed opted out of 
them and asked to be contacted by email. But, on looking at the evidence that had been 
provided, our investigator said she wasnt able to say Virgin had harassed Mr P. 
Our investigator said that Virgin had explained it wasnt able to see the outbound calls to Mr 
P but had removed Mr Ps consent from receiving marketing calls. She said she thought this 
was reasonable.
Our investigator said Mr P may be able to receive assistance from the Information 
Commissioners Office in regard to unwanted marketing calls.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators response. He said our investigator hadnt addressed 
the final response letter hed received from Virgin which he described as being blank. He 
said that he didnt think Virgin had taken his complaint seriously. Mr P said that Virgin should 
at least offer an apology for its actions.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says he felt harassed by Virgin to take out a new credit agreement for a mobile phone 
as his current contract was coming to an end. He requested that the marketing calls stopped 
but says that despite asking on multiple occasions for his phone number to be removed from 
the marketing database, the calls persisted resulting in his complaint. I note that Virgin has 
removed his phone number from its marketing database.
In regard to these marketing calls, Ive seen there is no record held on his account with 
Virgin that notes these. The records only show the various marketing texts that were sent out 
to customers during the lifetime of the contract. Virgin says this may be because these calls 
were actually from a third-party marketing company and not from Virgin. Looking at the 
evidence, while I accept there were calls, I cant reasonably say whether they were directly 
from Virgin or actually a third-party company. I dont have sufficient evidence to say Mr P 
was harassed by Virgin.
I appreciate Mr P was frustrated and upset about the final response letter he received from 
Virgin. And looking at this letter I can understand why, as it doesnt set out what Virgin had 
found about his complaint and Im not surprised he describes it as being blank. However, 
this part of Mr Ps complaint doesnt actually fail under my remit. Under our rules, which are 
set out in the FCA Handbook and referred to as the DISP rules, this service can only 
consider complaints about regulated activities. The actual handling of a complaint by a 
business doesnt generally fall under this heading. This means that I cant uphold a 
complaint about a poorly drafted final response letter. Ive seen Virgin has separately offered 
Mr P compensation for this error on its part, and I am not going to comment further on that.
So, as I can only look at the marketing phone calls and not Virgins handling of Mr Ps 
complaint, Im not upholding it. I dont have enough evidence about the marketing calls to 
say that Virgin was putting undue pressure on Mr P. And I think its action of removing his 
phone number from its database was reasonable in the circumstances and Im not asking it 
to do more.    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman