DRN-3685546
The complaint
Mr P complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) incorrectly cancelled the 
wrong credit card causing him problems while overseas. 
What happened
Mr P says he had planned a bachelor party for him and his friends in Las Vegas and before 
he took the trip he called Amex to enquire of the whereabouts of a new credit card he had 
requested. Mr P says he realised the new card wouldnt arrive in time for his proposed trip, 
so he asked Amex to cancel that card. Mr P says Amex, unaware to him rather than 
cancelling his newly ordered card, in fact cancelled his long-held credit card instead. 
Mr P says when he arrived at the hotel his existing credit card was rejected and on speaking 
to Amex it became clear it had cancelled the wrong credit card. Mr P says Amex didnt offer 
any solutions other than he log a complaint and initially said it wasnt clear what credit card 
he wanted to cancel. Mr P says he was left having to borrow funds from his family and ask 
his friends to contribute to the hotel costs, which he was supposed to be paying for as the 
host.
Mr P says the mistakes made by Amex caused him huge embarrassment and ruined what 
was supposed to be a once in a lifetime visit for him and his friends. Mr P says he has lost 
out on credit card points he would have spent using the card, and given the upset and 
distress this has caused him, he would expect Amex to pay him significantly more than the 
£175 it has paid him for the inconvenience.
Amex have accepted it made a mistake and were at fault for cancelling the wrong credit card 
and says it paid  Mr P £175  by way of compensation for that. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ps complaint. The 
investigator noted although Mr P managed to fulfil his holiday, he had experienced 
significant distress and felt Amex should increase its award to £750, to fairly reflect the 
trouble and upset Mr P had experienced over this matter. 
Mr P didnt agree with the Investigators view on the level of compensation to be awarded 
and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding Mr Ps complaint and I will explain how I have come 
to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been distressing and frustrating for Mr P to have planned a 
special trip like this, only to be let down by Amex when it cancelled the wrong credit card 
which he intended to use to pay for the trip. 
The first thing to say here is Amex have accepted it made a mistake, apologised for that and 
paid Mr P some compensation. 
The course of events here are well documented and understood by both parties, so I wont 
go over the same ground covered at length by the investigator here. Where Mr P has an 
issue, is with the level of compensation offered initially by Amex and by the investigator. 
Theres no question Amex could have dealt with matters better at the time and I take the 
view its support team could have done more to assist Mr P. Mr P had explained to Amex the 
difficult position he was in, due to its mistake but initially Amex seemed to suggest there was 
some confusion over what card Mr P wanted cancelled, rather than dealing with the problem 
at hand. It has since accepted it was for them to have understood more clearly what credit 
card Mr P wanted cancelled, and it didnt do that. 
I can see that this has caused Mr P not only a great deal of inconvenience and 
embarrassment, it would have tainted what was a long-planned trip for him and his friends. I 
understand Mr P strongly feels the compensation he has been awarded by Amex and the 
amount proposed by the investigator falls short of his expectations. Its worth saying its not 
the role of this service to penalise businesses when mistakes like this happen but to see it 
apologises and takes steps to offer a suitable level of redress. But here Amex havent 
addressed the level of redress in the way I would expect here.
The investigator has proposed Amex pay Mr P a total of £750 by way of compensation 
reflecting the fact the inconvenience didnt last for a prolonged period of time, as Mr P was 
still able to enjoy his planned trip. So, without trying to minimise the frustration and upset Mr 
P would have undoubtedly experienced, I am satisfied the level of compensation proposed 
by the investigator, at the higher end of what this service normally recommends, is fair given 
the overall circumstances here. After all Mr P was still able to fulfil his trip. 
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr P a further £575 in addition 
to the £175 it has already paid him, making a total of £750 by way of compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr P a further £575 in addition 
to the £175 it has already paid him, making a total of £750 by way of compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman