DRN-1070413
The complaint
Mr C complains about the level of service provided by Brightside Insurance Service Limited 
when administering his motor insurance policy. He wants further compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
What happened
Mr C owed Brightside a sum and he agreed a repayment plan with it. Part of this plan was 
that Brightside would call Mr C each month to collect payment of an agreed sum. But Mr C 
wasnt in when Brightside called, so it collected his payment from his card details it held and 
set up a direct debit. Mr C later called Brightside to make the payment, but he wasnt told it 
had already been taken. Mr C said hed received threatening letters about debt collection. 
Brightside agreed it had made an error. It refunded the duplicate payment and waived a £60 
charge as an apology. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Brightside 
shouldnt have set up the monthly direct debit or saved Mr Cs card details without his 
consent. He thought it should have told Mr C that hed already made a payment that month. 
And he thought it had caused Mr C distress by sending him a debt collection threat letter 
less than three days after the missed payment. He also thought Mr C had been kept on hold 
for long periods whilst this was investigated. He thought Brightside should pay Mr C an 
additional £40 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Brightside said it had already restored Mr Cs position and didnt think further compensation 
was warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brightside said it had recorded Mr Cs card details when he took out the policy. It said it told 
him in its Terms of Business that these would be retained. But these also state that Mr C can 
ask for his card not to be used for payments. 
Brightside has agreed that Mr C didnt want automatic payments taken from his card. The 
agreed payment method was manual payments taken over the phone. So I think Brightside 
was wrong to set up a direct debit and take the automatic payment as this was against Mr 
Cs wishes and its agreement with him. 
Brightside said it hadnt made a mistake in accepting the duplicate payment when Mr C 
called. It said consumers often made extra payments to clear a debt. 
This may be so, but I dont think that justifies Brightsides action in Mr Cs case. This is 
because hed made a payment of the same amount shortly after the earlier payment had 
been taken, and this was outside his recently agreed payment plan. Also, the payment was 
taken by the same agent whod set up the plan. I think this should have caused Brightside to 
question Mr C before taking the payment. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Brightside accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Brightside refunded the duplicate payment immediately Mr C brought it to its notice. I think 
thats fair and reasonable. And it offered to waive its £60 cancellation fee from the balance 
Mr C owed it. I think that restored Mr Cs financial position and compensated him for the 
trouble its mistakes caused him. But I dont think it takes into account the impact the errors 
had on Mr C:
I think the errors caused Mr C considerable distress and frustration as hed agreed a 
repayment plan, but money had been taken from his account without his consent;
He was upset that Brightside had retained his card details;
He had to make calls to Brightside to resolve the matter and was kept on hold for long 
periods;
He received threats of debt collection when hed only missed the repayment by a few 
days and was worried by these.
So I dont think Brightside has done enough in response to Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
Mr C wanted Brightside to waive the entire balance outstanding. But I dont think that would 
be fair or reasonable. Our investigator recommended that Brightside should pay Mr C an 
additional £40 compensation for the distress caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Brightside Insurance Service Limited to pay Mr C an additional £40 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman