DRN-2709985
The complaint
Mr R complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited have misled him into making payments 
for a debt they knew was unenforceable.
A representative is supporting Mr R in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mr R held a credit card, and his representative has said a first section 78 (s78) request was 
made around December 2012 / January 2013 to the original credit card provider who Ill call 
B. This s78 request was made when Mr R was using a different representative who said 
theyd take over the debt and become the legal owners  meaning Mr R would no longer be 
responsible for it. This didnt happen and the debt remained in Mr Rs name. 
The s78 request means the owner of the account must provide a copy of the original 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA) agreement, together with a history of repayments. If these cant 
be provided, then the debt isnt enforceable  meaning the owner of Mr Rs debt cant take 
court action. They also cant mislead Mr R into thinking the debt is enforceable, when its not, 
and when asking for payments need to specify the debt isnt enforceable.
It's unclear whether the s78 request was satisfied by B  Mr Rs current representative 
hasnt said it was, but this also seems to have been a number of years before they became 
involved.
I understand Mr Rs credit card was then defaulted by B in July 2013. After this default on 
14 August 2013 the account was sold to a debt purchaser. That debt purchaser asked Link 
to manage the account for them.
The information Ive received from Link show Mr R entered into a payment plan  and made 
his first payment in August 2017.
On 17 May 2018 Mr Rs current representative contacted Link to raise concerns over two 
issues. The first was regarding a section 75 request  which doesnt form part of this 
complaint. And the second was to ask for the information Mr R is entitled to under s78.
Link replied the next day but didnt address the s78 request. The response was sent to 
Mr Rs representative.
The next contact was on 30 January 2020, with Mr Rs representative saying the s78 request 
hadnt been satisfied. Because of that, they were advising Mr R not to make any further 
payments as they understood the debt to be unenforceable.
Link replied to this contact the next day and explained when processing a s78 request the 
rules allow them to ask for a £1 fee  and as that fee hadnt been received, they werent able 
to comply with the request. Link added that, at this time, the agreement remains enforceable, 
but upon receipt of the fee theyll get the documents as soon as possible.
Mr Rs representative wasnt happy with this. They explained when theyd contacted Link on 
17 May 2018, they were prepared to pay the statutory fee if asked for  but Links response 
on 18 May 2018 made no reference to this. They also thought Link were being a bit 
presumptive by saying the account was still enforceable when they didnt hold the relevant 
details. They enclosed the £1 fee this time.
Following this, Link seem to have contacted B (the original owner of the credit card) to ask 
for the relevant documents. On 2 May 2020 B wrote to Mr R to explain they didnt hold them, 
so his debt was unenforceable.
Mr Rs representative then contacted Link. They said as Link couldnt satisfy the s78 
request, and were never in a position to do so, it follows Mr R never should have made any 
payments to the debt. Because of this, they asked for a refund of payments Mr R had made 
after the s78 requests of £1,600, plus interest. Mr Rs representative was also unhappy Link 
had written to Mr R directly, when hed asked them to write to the representative  and that 
Link had asked for a letter of authority, when they already had it.
Link replied to this. They said sorry for sending a letter direct to Mr R, and for asking for a 
signed letter of authority when they already had one. They also said they were sorry for 
saying the account remains enforceable when theyd not received the £1 fee  they should 
have said they werent able to comment on the enforceability of the account at this time. 
They explained that when they first receive a s78 request theyre not aware of the 
enforceability of the account, because theyre not provided with the documents when buying 
accounts. They added that as the documents hadnt been provided, then the account is 
unenforceable. But, they said the balance of the account remains owed, so theyre unable to 
agree any monies have been paid in error. And finally, they said the enforceability status of 
Mr Rs account doesnt remove his liability for it, and any refund for money paid wont be 
considered.
Mr Rs representative asked us to look into things. They provided a substantial amount of 
information, so Ive summarised in my own words what I think are the key arguments from 
them:
Because B didnt satisfy the s78 request, by the law of assignment Link were 
responsible for it. They quoted section 136 (s136) of the Law of Property Act 1925 
and Halsburys Laws of England which they say proves this.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) rules set out by the regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) show Link havent acted fairly  specifically that 
Link have misled Mr R into thinking the debt was enforceable when it wasnt.
As a result of Link being responsible when they bought the debt, or by misleading 
Mr R directly later on, any payments made since the payment plan started should be 
refunded.
Mr Rs representative added that as a result of this all payments made should be refunded, 
plus 8%. They also asked for £750 compensation for the stress and anxiety caused by this.
Across a number of responses our investigator explained he didnt think itd be fair and 
reasonable for Link to be responsible for a s78 request made to the original lender. He said 
he couldnt see Link had been made aware of it, so didnt think they were required to do 
anything further here. And, he didnt think Link needed to refund any payments, because 
although theyd explained the debt was enforceable when it wasnt at one point, no 
payments had been made after this error. And he said the relevant time limits for Link to 
have replied to the s78 request didnt apply until the £1 fee had been paid.Mr Rs representative said they didnt agree with this. They said the effect of s136 of the Law 
of Property Act 1925 permitted the assignment of debt subject to equities. And, this is 
explained by Halsburys Laws of England to say when Link bought the debt, they also 
bought the unsatisfied s78 request which was made to B in December 2012 / January 2013. 
Because of that, effectively, Link bought an unenforceable debt which they knew about.
Mr Rs representative also said under CONC, by continuing to accept Mr Rs payments Link 
were misleading him about the enforceability of the debt. Additionally  after the second s78 
request on 17 May 2018 Link didnt say the debt was unenforceable, and there was a further 
letter dated 29 June 2018 which also didnt say the debt was unenforceable. So, theyve 
misled Mr R by omission about the enforceability of the debt.
Mr R has said had he been told the debt was unenforceable, then he wouldnt have entered 
into a payment arrangement. As a result, Mr Rs representative thinks payments should be 
refunded, plus interest and compensation. Theyve also asked us to direct Link to confirm 
the debt has been written off, and no adverse reports will be made to the credit reference 
agencies. As our investigator didnt agree with this, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key questions in this case, is whether Link have been fair in asking Mr R to make 
payments towards an account where he properly owes the money  and whether they 
should refund anything Mr R has paid. I realise Mr Rs representative is focusing on whether 
the account was unenforceable or not  but that isnt something I can decide, as that can 
only be decided by a court. 
I think its important to explain my role is to decide things on a fair and reasonable basis. Im 
required to take into account the law but Im not bound by it. 
Payments Mr R has made towards the outstanding debt
Theres no dispute, as far as I can see, that Mr R borrowed and spent the money thats 
currently the subject of this dispute. So, Im satisfied Mr R does properly owe the money Link 
have asked him to repay.
With that in mind, Im satisfied Link have acted fairly in asking Mr R to repay the debt. He 
owes the money, hasnt disputed this, so any payments hes made have been made towards 
a debt he does properly owe.
With that in mind, whether Mr R has or hasnt made payments towards a debt Link knew was 
enforceable, I wouldnt be asking them to refund those payments with interest.
Should Link be held responsible for the s78 request made to B, Mr Rs original lender
Mr Rs representative has pointed to s136 of the Law of Property Act 1925, and Halsburys 
Laws of England as evidence why Link are responsible for the s78 request made in 
December 2012 / January 2013 to B.
I think its important to explain that our role is that of an alternative to the court  and our 
overarching remit is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case rather than being bound by what the law necessarily says.Mr Rs representative hasnt definitely demonstrated that Link are responsible for the s78 
request made to B because weve not had sight of the terms of sale. Its not our role to make 
a complaint on behalf of the parties  particularly where itd involve a detailed analysis of a 
commercially sensitive business to business agreement that Mr R wasnt party to.
Theres nothing preventing Mr R raising his concerns about Bs actions directly to them  
which would seem more fair, reasonable and appropriate. This is regardless of whether Link 
could technically be held liable. 
Are Link responsible for refunding payments from 18 May 2018
I also note Mr Rs representative is concerned that Link didnt respond to his s78 request 
when it was made in May 2018.
I do think thats poor  but Link did reply to the s75 issue raised in the same letter the 
following day which was sent to Mr Rs representative.
And, in the contact Mr Rs representative made with Link, he mentioned the £1 to look into 
the issue of enforceability  but didnt enclose it saying Link could ask for it. Because he 
didnt enclose it, this meant Link werent required to complete a s78 request  though I do 
think they should have responded to this point.  But neither Mr R or his representative 
seemingly followed up with Link until January 2020  over a year and a half later. So, even if 
they had replied to say the £1 fee was due, I cant know if Mr R or his representative would 
have provided that any earlier  as they didnt give the fee initially and didnt follow up on the 
issue until January 2020.
And Ive not seen anything to show Link were aware in May 2018 the debt was 
unenforceable. Mr Rs representative has said that the amount Link would most likely have 
paid for the account would be a clear indicator. But theres not enough evidence to say the 
price of Mr Rs account is relevant information in deciding whether it was or wasnt 
enforceable. After the fee was paid, Link then asked B for the documents theyd usually 
need to provide  which B didnt have. Its at this point B and Link both said they couldnt 
enforce the debt and communicated this to Mr R which is what Id usually expect. 
Summary
Overall then, Im satisfied any concerns regarding the initial s78 request would be more fairly 
directed to B, I cant see Link knew the account would be decided it was unenforceable 
before the £1 fee was paid  and all payments Mr R has made are towards a debt he 
seemingly owes. Because of that, I wont be telling Link to refund any payments or pay any 
compensation  and that Mr R remains responsible for the outstanding balance Link are 
collecting.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman