DRN-3266865
The complaint
Mr W complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim for
damaged carpets under his landlords home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr W contacted RSA to claim for damage to several carpets in his property. He
says carpets were heavily soiled and smelly in three bedrooms as well as the stairs and
landing. Mr W says this was the result of the previous tenant keeping several cats in his
property, which was the reason the tenant had been evicted. Mr W explains the carpets had
to be removed and new ones fitted before a new tenant could move in.
Mr W isnt happy that RSA has raised four excess charges. He says this is one claim and
should mean only one excess charge for £100 not £400.
RSA says the damage couldnt have been caused by one single incident, as there is
damage to three separate bedrooms as well as the stairs and landing. It says it asked Mr W
for photos of the damage. But the damaged carpets had already been disposed of and no
photos had been taken.
RSA says it classed the stairs and landing as one area and so with the three bedrooms it
correctly charged four excess fees. It says as there were several cats, and several areas of
damage this cant be classed as one insured event. RSA offered £158 to cover the cost of
replacement carpets after the deduction of £400 in excess fees.
Mr W didnt think RSA had shown the damage wasnt caused in one incident. He says a
severely sick animal could have caused the damage to the carpets in one incident, for
example if the cat had diarrhoea. As the business didnt change its position Mr W referred
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says there is a lack of evidence to show when the
damage occurred. But that it was likely to have occurred during the last tenancy period. He
says that the approach we take when theres no clear evidence of separate incidents 
causing the damage, is to treat it as one claim with the application of one excess charge. He
thought RSA should only deduct one excess fee from its settlement payment.
The investigator also thought RSA had caused delays when communicating with Mr W and
thought it fair that it should pay him £100 in compensation.
RSA disagreed. It says the damage could have happened over months. It says there were
several cats in the property, and the damage occurred in several different rooms. It doesnt
see how this can be considered a one-off event. Because the investigator didnt change his
view, RSA asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My first consideration is whether Mr W has shown he suffered an insured loss. I think its
clear that he has. This is confirmed under point 10 of, What is covered: Any other accident
on page six of the policy terms. RSA doesnt dispute an insured loss occurred. So, I neednt
consider this point further. My focus is on whether its fair and reasonable for it to treat the
damage to the carpets as four separate incidents.
There is a lack of evidence to show exactly when and how damage to the carpets occurred.
RSA points out that damage was caused in different rooms, involving several different
carpets. It doesnt think damage to each of the separate carpets can have resulted from the
same insured event. Even if it was the same cat that caused the damage. The business also
points out that there were several cats kept in the property, which it believes supports the
view that more than one incident occurred.
Mr W argues that RSA hasnt shown the damage wasnt caused by one cat during one
event. He says, one, very sick, distressed animal could have caused this damage.
Mr W didnt provide RSA with photos of the carpets and didnt give RSA the opportunity to
inspect the damage. I do note his comments that the property wasnt habitable for new
tenants because of the heavily soiled smelly carpets. I accept they needed replacing and
Mr W was keen to have this done promptly.
I understand why Mr W had the carpets replaced when he did. But I think its reasonable that
RSA shouldve been given the opportunity to inspect the damage. This would allow it to
understand the extent and how the damage was caused. In the circumstances I think it
behaved reasonably in agreeing to provide cover. But I cant say that it acted unreasonably
in determining the damage wasnt caused by one incident.
Mr W refers to the damaged carpets being heavily soiled. From his description of the extent
of the soiling, this doesnt sound like the result of one incident. I understand the damage was
caused during the last tenancy period. Its not clear how long this was. But the indication is
the tenant was in the property for several months at least. RSA thinks it likely the damage
occurred over the period of the tenancy and was caused by several cats soiling the carpets.
I have read the policy terms to understand when an excess payment is due. The terms of the
policy, under the Definitions section on page 57 say:
Contribution
The first part of each and every claim as shown in the Schedule which You and We have
agreed will be paid by You.
The damage is covered by the Any other accident cause detailed on page six of the policy
terms.
The relevant section of Mr Ws policy schedule, relating to excess charges says:
Your Contribution: In respect of Landlords Contents:Any other Damage: £100.
From the above, I think its clear a contribution, or excess charge is payable by Mr W in the
event of a successful claim. The minimum he will pay for this type of claim is £100.
Mr W disposed of the carpets, which meant an inspection couldnt take place and no photos
were taken to demonstrate the damage. Its also clear damage occurred in several different
rooms, indicating separate incidents. Because of this I think its unreasonable to expect RSA
to accept the claim relates to one incident.
Mr W says the carpets were heavily soiled and had a strong smell. This also indicates
damage had occurred during multiple events and was not the result of one insured event. On
balance I think RSAs view is persuasive that the damage occurred over time. And this is
likely to be the result of several cats soiling the carpets on the stairs, landing and in three
bedrooms. Because of this I think RSA acted fairly in treating this as four separate claims
and applying four excess charges.
Turning to the time taken to handle the claim. Its clear that delays did occur on RSAs part.
Mr W supplied requested information at the end of July 2021. Further information was then
requested in the middle of August, which could have been requested earlier. Mr W replied
promptly to this request. RSA asked for further information two weeks later. Again, this
couldve been requested earlier. Information was again provided promptly by Mr W. RSA
then took a further three weeks to provide an outcome.
I think RSAs handling couldve been better. This was frustrating and caused inconvenience
for Mr W. Its reasonable that RSA acknowledges this by paying him £100 compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited should:
 pay £100 compensation to Mr W for the frustration and inconvenience caused by its delays
in requesting information and when confirming an outcome.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA responded to say its glad I thought it had been fair in the excess fees it charged. But it 
disagrees that it caused any delays in the handling of the claim. It has supplied a full 
chronology of the interactions with Mr W from when he first made contact up until it 
confirmed the outcome. 
Mr W responded to say he was disappointed that my decision favoured RSA. He explains 
how the excess fees represent a large chunk of the small profit he makes from renting his 
property. He says he cannot comprehend how his claim can be perceived as four separate 
claims. Mr W says that yes, RSA should have inspected the damage, but he cant recall it 
ever mentioning coming out.
Mr W says when the tenants moved in around March 2019 the carpets in the property were 
in good condition. Nine months later he discovered the tenant was keeping cats in the 
property. But due to regulations at the time the tenant was given six months to vacate, as 
opposed to the usual two. Mr W says that when he gained possession of the property the 
carpets were beyond cleaning and were unhygienic. The carpets were removed immediately 
to allow cleaning and to get a new tenant in as soon as possible.Mr W says his argument remains the same that there is no evidence to suggest the soiling 
didnt happen during one event. He says he didnt claim per room, he made one claim and 
remains surprised that RSA treated this as four claims. He concludes his comments to say 
its unfair that RSA takes a fee for providing cover but wont honour his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read RSAs chronology of events and thought about whether this changes my view of 
its delays in the handling of Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W first contacted RSA in June 2021, at which point he was asked for some information. It 
says this wasnt provided until later in July following a further contact. RSA then took around 
19 days to request the original carpet receipts and the receipts from the new carpets. This 
was provided by Mr W the next day. RSA then took 14 days to query further information 
about the number of rooms affected by the soiling. Mr W responded the same day to this 
request. Mr W chased RSA for the outcome of his claim 24 days later having received no 
response. The outcome was then confirmed by the business the following day. 
Based on this evidence there was an initial delay due to Mr W responding to RSAs request 
for information. After this initial delay, RSA made two further requests for information to 
which Mr W responded either the same or the following day. Im not convinced this couldnt 
have been requested in one communication. However, assuming it couldnt, RSA waited 
nearly three weeks and then another two weeks in-between its information requests. When it 
had the information it needed, it took a further three and half weeks and another contact 
from Mr W, before confirming the outcome of his claim. 
Having considered this evidence, Im not persuaded that my decision needs to change. I 
think its reasonable to expect RSAs handling of the claim couldve been better and it should 
pay £100 compensation to Mr W for the frustration and inconvenience these delays caused. 
I have also thought about Mr Ws comments, and whether this impacts on my decision. Im 
sorry to hear of the impact the excess charges will have on the profit he makes from renting 
his property. I understand this must be disappointing, but this doesnt impact on my decision.
I acknowledge Mr Ws point that he cant recall RSA asking to come out to his property. But 
he also makes it clear that the carpets were immediately removed once he had gained 
access. As the carpets were removed there was no opportunity for RSA to inspect them. 
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr W experienced with his tenant. I can understand it must 
have been frustrating for him given the time he had to wait for the eviction to take place. But 
I think his comments support my view, that the opportunity existed over many months for 
multiple cats to cause the soiling damage to the carpets. This doesnt indicate a single event 
as the cause of the damage. 
I understand Mr Ws disappointment with the charges applied, but having considered both 
parties further comments, I think my provisional decision was fair.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws 
complaint in part and Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must: pay £100 compensation to Mr W for the frustration and inconvenience caused by its delays 
in requesting information and when confirming an outcome.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman