DRN-3664172
The complaint
Mr C complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund him for a transaction he didnt make.
What happened
Mr C noticed a large payment to an online marketplace and contacted TSB. TSB refunded 
the amount taken and contacted the online marketplace, via chargeback. The online 
marketplace told TSB it had already credited Mr Cs account the value of the transaction.
Because Mr C had already had a refund, TSB took back the money it had paid him. But Mr C 
had lost a further amount of money from the online marketplace, his refund had been used 
fraudulently.
Mr C was told to raise this with TSB, but it refused to refund either of the amounts of money 
Mr C had lost.
Mr C complained, and TSB said it was right to take the money back as the online 
marketplace had provided evidence to show Mr C had made the order. The online 
marketplace had subsequently decided Mr C was the victim of fraud, but this was too late for 
TSB to change its decision, the chargeback had failed and couldnt be raised again.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought TSB had been fair in taking back the money after a chargeback 
failed. The investigator felt the online marketplace should be responsible for any refund.
Mr C responded to say he couldnt get a refund from the online marketplace as it was saying 
TSB had to start the process. Stuck between two businesses, Mr C didnt know what to do or 
how to get his refund. 
Mr C also said TSB should be responsible for ensuring his money is safe. Mr C asked for an 
ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only look at a complaint against TSB, not the online marketplace, so I can only decide 
if TSB has treated Mr C fairly in all the circumstances.
I also cant make a decision whether Mr C was the victim of fraud at the online marketplace, 
but it seems the online marketplace has confirmed this. If I take this as fact, then the 
payment from Mr Cs TSB account wasnt authorised by him.
Generally, TSB will be liable for payments Mr C didnt authorise. But, in Mr Cs specific 
circumstances, I dont think it needs to refund the payment. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C.
The online marketplace has confirmed it credited Mr Cs account with vouchers totalling the 
full amount taken from his TSB account. Some of these vouchers were then used.
The payment from TSB led to a credit, in full, on Mr Cs online marketplace account. Mr C 
has already been refunded for the payment from his TSB account, albeit to a different 
account. I dont think it would be fair for TSB to refund the payment and for Mr C to keep the 
refund hes already been given.
The refund Mr C received from the online marketplace was used, in part, to buy vouchers. 
But I think this was a separate transaction to the one funded by his TSB account. The money 
Mr C lost was from the vouchers on the online marketplace account, not from TSB.
The online marketplace is possibly responsible for the loss Mr C incurred from the 
subsequent transaction. But I cant decide that part of the complaint, this complaint is about 
whether TSB has treated Mr C fairly, and I think it has.
When TSB raised the chargeback it received a response from the online marketplace to say 
a refund had been made. TSB cant raise a second chargeback, even if the online 
marketplace now accepts Mr C was the victim of fraud.
I realise Mr C has been told, by the online marketplace, TSB is liable for any refunds. But I 
dont agree. I also realise Mr C hasnt had any success getting a refund from the online 
marketplace. Mr C is welcome to forward my decision to the online marketplace to show he 
wont be getting a refund from TSB.
Mr C says TSB has a responsibility to protect his money. Whilst this is correct, in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, and the fact hes already had a refund, I dont 
think it would be fair for TSB to refund the payment.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman