DRN-2624883
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are complaining about how St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) handled 
their request to amend their home insurance to cover some building work.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S renewed their home insurance with St Andrews in June 2020, and at the time 
told St Andrews that they would be undertaking some renovations to their property, but 
didnt yet know the cost. They were asked to contact St Andrews once they had this 
information and a start date.
Mr and Mrs S got back in touch with St Andrews on 23 July to say that the work was due to 
start on 1 August and would cost about £100,000. St Andrews said it couldnt provide cover 
for works over £75,000 and that it would cancel the policy from 1st August. The member of 
staff gave Mr and Mrs A the names of a couple of insurers that might be able to help them 
insure their home and the renovations.
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy about this and complained. They said theyd been left having to 
shop around for new cover and that their reputation had been damaged by having to declare 
a cancellation in the future. They said theyd had to buy very expensive cover elsewhere.
St Andrews reviewed the complaint and said that, after a review by its underwriters, that it 
would insure Mr and Mrs S through the period of works and offered to talk to them about 
how that would affect the policy. It did say, however, that Mr and Mrs S had been given the 
correct information on the 23rd  and that as the renovations were above its limit for such 
work it was fair for it to stop cover when the work began. It did say it could have done more 
to put them in touch with alternate insurers and offered £150 compensation for this.
Mr and Mrs S said it was too late to assess what cover St Andrews could offer as theyd 
found insurance elsewhere  but they think St Andrews should have published the 
maximum cover for renovations in the policy terms and conditions. They say theyve had to 
pay a lot more for insurance now and that St Andrews probably wouldnt have charged as 
much. They dont think the compensation is enough to make up for the way they were 
treated.
They asked us to review their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think St Andrews need do more than it had. He said St Andrews was 
entitled to make commercial decisions about what insurance it wanted to offer  and to 
change the parameters if it so wished. He thought that St Andrews had been entitled to 
cancel Mr and Mrs Ss insurance from the date the work started. He said it had dealt with the 
complaint Mr and Mrs raised within a reasonable timeframe, and had offered  after its 
underwriters assessed the work being done  to provide cover if Mr and Mrs S still wanted 
that. He noted that St Andrews didnt think it had handled the call on the 23 July as well as it 
could have, but thought the offer of £150 compensation was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S have asked that an ombudsman decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
All insurers make commercial decisions about what level of cover they want to provide to 
their customers. Theyre entitled to do that as part of running the business, and those 
decisions arent something I would normally challenge.
Mr and Mrs S say St Andrews should publish its renovations limits in the policy terms and 
conditions. That is a choice for St Andrews to make. Its not something that affects the 
majority of home owners, simply because most arent undertaking costly renovations. So I 
dont think its necessary for St Andrews to draw the attention of all customers to any limit it 
might impose in these circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S told St Andrews that they were going to undertake 
renovations when they renewed their policy in June. But at that point they didnt know either 
the cost or the planned start date. I think they were asked correctly to get back in touch with 
St Andrews when they had that information.
I also think St Andrews was within its rights to tell Mr and Mrs S, when it found out the likely 
cost of the work, to explain that these were above the limit it wanted to cover. The terms and 
conditions in Mr and Mrs Ss policy explain what St Andrews could do in these 
circumstances  and cancelling the policy from the start date of the work was one option.
It is also within St Andrews rights to re-evaluate a decision its made  and so I cant say it 
did anything wrong when it decided it could offer cover a couple of weeks later. Mr and Mrs 
S were of course free to decide whether they wanted to explore the new terms and 
conditions  including any increased premium  St Andrews might offer or stay with the new 
insurer theyve found. They decided to stay with the new insurer.
Mr and Mrs S say they think St Andrews would have been cheaper than their new insurer 
and want some compensation for this. But they dont know that as they chose not to take up 
St Andrews offer to look at the extended cover. I dont think compensation is appropriate.
Mr and Mrs S say they were left hanging between being told they couldnt have cover and 
being offered potential cover a couple of weeks later. Im afraid I dont agree with that. Mr 
and Mrs S knew they needed to arrange cover elsewhere. St Andrews couldnt give them 
more time to look for different cover because it only knew the cost of the works when Mr and 
Mrs S contacted it  and by that time the work was supposed to start in a week. It did 
accommodate a slight delay in the start date, which would have helped Mr and Mrs S. Until 
St Andrews reviewed its decision with its underwriters its position remained unchanged. 
There was no suggestion initially that might happen  so Mr and Mrs S hadnt had their 
expectations raised in error.
Mr and Mrs S say they feel their reputation has been affected by St Andrews decision not to 
provide cover. But this isnt the sort of cancellation that has negative connotations  its 
simply that the new cover required fell outside the limits St Andrews chooses to provide 
cover for. And I can see that Mr and Mrs Ss insurance intermediary also assured them of 
this. So I cant say St Andrews acted in a way that will affect Mr and Mrs S going forwards.
Finally Mr and Mrs S say the offer of £150 for the way they were treated isnt enough  
although they havent said what would be acceptable. Ive looked at the way St Andrews 
handled the complaint they made and this was resolved in a timely fashion, with an offer to 
provide the cover if Mr and Mrs S still wanted it and the terms were suitable. Mr and Mrs S 
think St Andrews could have done that all along. Ive looked at the information provided by 
St Andrews (some of which is commercially sensitive, so I wont go into detail) and Im 
satisfied it acted in accordance with its internal guidelines.St Andrews did acknowledge it could have done more to put Mr and Mrs in touch with other 
possible insurers. It says it could have provided contact numbers instead of just names of 
alternate insurers, or possibly transferred Mr and Mrs Ss call. I think the £150 it offered to 
make up for this is very fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it with Mr and Mrs S whether they 
accept the compensation offered by the insurer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman