DRN-2320667
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain because ERGO Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a claim for the 
cancellation of a holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
This complaint has been brought to us by Mrs Ms representative and all references to 
Mrs M includes that representative
What happened
Mr B and Mrs M were insured under a travel insurance policy, provided by ERGO. 
Mr B and Mrs M were due to travel on a UK break from 23 March 2020 to 27 March 2020. 
However, Mrs M cancelled the trip because of government advice for over 70s to self-isolate 
due to Covid-19.
The trip organiser didnt provide any refund to Mr B and Mrs M, so they made a claim under 
their insurance policy with ERGO. 
ERGO initially said the claim wasnt payable because neither the UK government preventing 
travel nor precautionary cancellation were covered under the policy. Unhappy, Mr B and 
Mrs M complained and said their policy covered cancellation due to quarantine. ERGO 
issued a final response letter declining their claim, saying quarantine wasnt the same as 
self-isolation.
Mr B and Mrs M then brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought ERGO should accept Mr B and Mrs Ms claim. ERGO said it would 
consider doing so if Mrs M could provide a shielding letter. Mrs M said she didnt have a 
shielding letter but that, because of her age and medical conditions, she had to self-isolate.  
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision Ive also had regard to relevant industry rules and guidance which 
say ERGO should treat its customers fairly, should handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
The terms and conditions of Mr B and Mrs Ms policy provide cover for cancellation of a trip 
on the occurrence of one of a list of specific, insured events. One of these is:
You or any person who You are travelling or have arranged to travel with or any 
other person upon whom the Trip depends being quarantined.
The word quarantine isnt defined in the policy. 
ERGO has provided a link to an article outlining the difference between the dictionary 
definition of quarantine and that of isolation. Quarantine is stated to mean a strict 
isolation imposed to prevent the spread of disease. The article says people are put in 
quarantine when they are not currently sick but have been or may have been exposed to a 
communicable disease. Isolation, on the other hand, is stated to mean the complete 
separation from others of a person suffering from contagious or infectious disease.
In a statement on 16 March 2020, the UK government asked everyone in the country to stop 
non-essential contact with others and to stop all unnecessary travel. This advice was stated 
to be particularly important for people over 70  Mrs M falls into this category. 
On 23 March 2020, which was the day Mr B and Mrs M were due to travel, the UK 
government introduced a nationwide lockdown.
While I accept there may be a distinction between the dictionary definitions of quarantine 
and isolation, Ive taken into account what I think are the ordinary, everyday meaning of the 
words as well as the context in which the word quarantine is used within the policy wording. 
Im satisfied that, following the government announcements which Ive mentioned above, 
Mrs M was in strict isolation imposed to prevent the spread of disease  including preventing 
Mrs M herself being exposed to that disease. I think a reasonable person would therefore 
consider Mrs M as being in quarantine and this was the reason she was unable to travel. 
I therefore think the circumstances of Mr B and Mrs Ms claim are covered under their policy 
with ERGO and I think ERGO has unfairly declined their claim. 
Given the unprecedented circumstances and widespread media coverage surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances for ERGO to require a 
shielding letter from Mrs M before accepting her claim. Im satisfied, based on the evidence 
Mrs M has provided, that she quite clearly fell into the category of vulnerable persons who 
were required to remain in their home at the time. 
Putting things right
ERGO needs to put things right by accepting Mr B and Mrs Ms cancellation claim, subject to 
the applicable policy limits and/or excesses. 
ERGO needs to add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the date of 
the claim until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr B and Mrs Ms complaint against ERGO Reiseversicherung AG and I direct 
it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman