DRN-2965045
The complaint
Mrs L complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, caused delays in 
processing her request to cash-in her investment policy, which she says has caused her 
financial loss. She also complains about other customer service issues and the rate of 
interest applied to compensation paid in respect of an overpayment of tax.
What happened
Mrs L had a Prudential Investment Plan (the policy). In March 2020, due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, she decided to cash-in her policy.
On 17 March 2020, Mrs Ls Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) tried to submit a surrender 
request online. However, Prudential told the IFA, by phone, on the same day, that the policy 
didnt meet the criteria for an online surrender. It said that a claim form would need to be 
submitted by Mrs L along with relevant identification documents. 
Prudential received the claim form on 18 March 2020 and Mrs L received the value of the 
units as it applied on that day. If Mrs L had received the value of the units as this applied on 
17 March 2020, she would have received £640,845. But because she received the value as 
it applied on 18 March 2020, she received £608,362. Mrs L complained as she said the 
value she received was the result of delays caused by Prudential. 
Prudential said that when processing a surrender request it uses the date it received all 
requirements to determine the surrender value. As it received the completed claim form from 
Mrs L before mid-day on 18 March 2020, it used that days bid price. It noted that if it had 
been after mid-day it would have used the next day prices. Prudential said it was satisfied 
the surrender value Mrs L received, was correct. 
Prudential accepted that itd caused delays with sending Mrs L her payment. It noted that it 
normally processes payments within five working days but in Mrs Ls case, the payment had 
taken three days longer. To compensate Mrs L for this, Prudential paid her £143.79 which 
included interest and a payment for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mrs L also complained about not being called back when she requested this following her 
complaint. And she was unhappy with the call waiting times shed experienced. Prudential 
apologised for the service issues and paid Mrs L a further £125 compensation.
Whilst the complaint was with our service, Prudential wrote to Mrs L and other affected 
customers saying itd deducted too much tax from the fund from 2013 to 2018, which 
impacted on the value of the investment. Prudential paid Mrs L £6,175 which covered the 
difference between what it originally paid her and what it should have paid. This amount 
included interest of 1% which was in line with the Bank of Englands base rate. However, 
once Mrs L complained, Prudential added interest of 8% and sent her a payment for 
£444.97. This amount included £150 compensation for the service Mrs L received. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She didnt think Prudential was 
incorrect when it applied the bid price to Mrs Ls units for the date 18 March 2020, as this 
was when it received her (Mrs Ls) claim form. Our investigator thought the payments made 
by Prudential for the customers service issues and the overpayment of tax, had fairly 
compensated Mrs L for these errors. 
Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. She said Prudential 
had unfairly refused to take instructions from her IFA. She also thought Prudential asking for 
the instructions in hard copy form was a delaying tactic. Mrs L said the recorded delivery 
shows that the claim form was received by Prudential by 6:45am so this should have meant 
she received the price that applied the day before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, whilst I think Prudential did make some 
mistakes, I think it has fairly compensated Mrs L for these. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to note Mrs Ls 
strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is 
to consider the evidence presented by Mrs L and Prudential, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Under the Payment declaration section of the claim form that Mrs L signed and sent to 
Prudential on 17 March 2020, it says the following:
If we receive all the relevant completed paperwork by mid-day on a 
working day, well normally process it at the price determined later that 
day; if we receive it after mid-day, well normally process it at the price 
determined on the next working day. 
So, as Mrs Ls claim form was received before mid-day on 18 March 2020, she received the 
price as it applied on that day. But Mrs L says because her form was received by Prudential 
early on that day, she should receive the day before price. She has said that she thinks its 
only because of staff shortages, that Prudential didnt process her form quickly enough. 
Whilst I take on board Mrs Ls concerns, I think the claim form makes it reasonably clear that 
if the form is received before mid-day, the price received will be the price applicable on the 
date of receipt. And from what I can see, this is the price Mrs L received. So, I cant fairly say 
Prudential has done anything wrong by applying the bid price as it was on 18 March 2020.
Mrs L considers Prudential was wrong in not accepting instructions from her IFA. But 
Prudential has provided reasonable explanations as to why this was the case. It says 
because the amount Mrs L was seeking to cash-in was significant at over £600,000, it 
couldnt take instructions from her IFA and couldnt process this through the online form. I 
dont think Prudential asking Mrs L to submit a claim form along with appropriate 
identification documents, was an unreasonable request under these circumstances. 
I should also say that its open to a business to choose whichever process it regards as 
appropriate taking into account its regulatory and legal obligations. Thats a commercial 
decision and not something on which I would seek to interfere. Looking at how Prudential 
has applied its process, I think it has done this fairly in Mrs Ls case.That said, I can see there was a delay in sending Mrs L the payment following the surrender 
of her investments. The claim form clearly says it should take five working days, but the 
payment took three days more than this. However, I think Prudential has compensated Mrs L 
fairly for this error with the interest payment and a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I can also see Prudential paid Mrs L a further £125 for delays she experienced with call 
waiting times and when a call wasnt returned to her following her complaint. Again, I think 
this is fair compensation under the circumstances.
Finally, I note that Prudential informed Mrs L in its letter dated 3 December 2020 that it had 
incorrectly deducted too much tax from her policy. It has provided Mrs L with a full 
explanation about how it has calculated this and it also agreed to add 8% interest to the 
payment along with £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by initially adding a 
lower rate of interest. I think Prudential has taken fair and reasonable steps to put this matter 
right and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
So, whilst I know Mrs L will be disappointed with this outcome, for all the reasons set out 
above, Im not upholding the complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman