DRN-1419189
The complaint
Mr R has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R took out the PPI in 2001 at the same time as applying for the credit card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs application form. There is a separate section for PPI and Mr R 
has ticked the box in that section to request PPI. I think that Mr R would have known from 
the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was optional. It seems to me that he decided 
to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
Mr R completed the form on his own at home before returned it by post. So there was no 
input from any RBS adviser. As it was a non-advised sale, RBS didnt have to ensure that 
that the policy met Mr Rs needs. But it did need to provide enough information for Mr R to 
make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Rs employer would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially 
for longer than Mr R would have received full pay for. Mr R has also said that he had around 
£5,000 in savings and so didnt need the policy. But having the policy would have allowed 
him to retain any savings or to use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Following the adjudicators view letter, Mr Rs representative has come back and said that 
Mr R was consolidating debt which was an indicator of financial difficulty. I can see that Mr R 
did apply to transfer a balance of £1,350 from another card. But the argument that he may 
have been in financial difficulty because of this is somewhat at odds with the argument that 
Mr R didnt have a need for cover due to having £5,000 in available savings. Besides, as it 
was a non-advised sale, RBS did not have to take Mr Rs circumstances into consideration. 
Overall Im not persuaded I can rely on what Mr R and his representative have told us about 
his circumstances at the time. Based on the available evidence I consider that Mr R had a 
need for the cover and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr R wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr R had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But RBS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. 
Because RBS didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman