DRN-4470243
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat him fairly when he requested a refund of
a payment made with his credit card.
What happened
Mr N bought a boiler costing £1,699.99 with his credit card in July 2021. It was bought at a
store and delivered a few days later. Mr N installed it in his kitchen, replacing his existing
boiler, but didnt arrange for it to be connected to his heating system until October. Aware
that it didnt come with a flue, Mr N checked the installation instructions which mentioned two
different rigid flue types. Neither type worked for his particular situation which required him to
use his existing chimney flue. He researched flues online and found a flexible one that he
thought might work however the online installation instructions made it clear that his chimney
didnt meet the minimum diameter requirements. This meant he couldnt use the boiler.
Mr N asked a nationwide energy supplier and professional boiler fitter to assess the
installation. They said they wouldnt install a flexible flue system even had the existing
chimney diameter proved suitable. They surveyed Mr Ns heating system and recommended
the installation of a different boiler. Mr N accepted this quote and subsequently had another
boiler installed elsewhere in his property. Mr N wrote to the retailer asking to return the boiler
on 14 October 2021.
On 2 November 2021 Mr N asked HSBC for help as he hadnt heard back from the retailer.
He said that the information about the boiler provided in the manufacturers sales brochure
was misleading. He asked HSBC for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
2015 (CCA). The CCA offers protection to consumers by making the lender jointly and
severally responsible for any misrepresentation or breach of contract for goods paid for with
credit. A successful claim might result in HSBC refunding the money Mr N paid for the boiler.
HSBC didnt investigate this claim for Mr N until over a year later. Instead, it considered a
chargeback claim where it applied to Visa to refund the money he paid to the retailer. Card
suppliers like HSBC can ask a card scheme (companies that run the card networks, Visa in
this case) for a refund on behalf of their customer if theres a problem with the goods or 
services theyve paid for. The rules for chargeback claims are made by the card schemes.
Refunds can be requested only in specific circumstances and requests have to be submitted
within strict time limits.
HSBC requested information from Mr N several times before submitting a chargeback
request to Visa in February 2022 and crediting Mr Ns account with £1,699.99. Visa declined
the chargeback claim in March 2022. HSBC went back to Visa with a second appeal (the
pre-arbitration stage). Visa declined the claim again in May and HSBC submitted a final
appeal (the arbitration stage). This was again declined in July and Visa said the claim had
been submitted outside its permitted time limit. HSBC re-debited the boiler cost from
Mr Ns credit card in August.
Mr N complained to HSBC that hed brought his claim to the bank within the time limit
required by Visa and so it wasnt his fault that the claim had been declined. He also got in
touch with us.
In November 2022 the bank considered whether or not Mr Ns was entitled to a refund under
Section 75 of the CCA. In March of this year HSBC told us that Mr N had relied on
information which was provided for guidance and didnt seek professional advice before
buying a boiler. HSBC said when Mr N found that the boiler was not suitable for him this
amounted to buyers remorse and it didnt find in his favour.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt recommend that HSBC take further
action. They found that HSBC hadnt treated Mr N unfairly as it had raised a chargeback
claim on his behalf which was successfully challenged by the retailer. They also found that
HSBC hadnt treated Mr N unfairly by not providing a refund under Section 75.
Mr N disagreed with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on the 20 October 
2023 explaining why I thought Mr Ns complaint should be partly upheld. Both parties agreed 
with my provisional conclusions. This is now my final decision on the matter which will be 
legally binding once accepted by Mr N. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and as both parties agreed with what Id said in my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my initial conclusions. I remain of the 
view that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld in part. Ill explain again how Ive reached my 
decision and what HSBC needs to do now to put things right for Mr N. 
As I said in my provisional decision, when considering this complaint Ive borne in mind 
relevant legislation including the aforementioned CCA and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
which gives consumers rights when they have problems with the goods or services theyve 
bought.
HSBC was required to consider Mr Ns request for a refund under Section 75 as this is a
consumers legal right, but it didnt have to raise a chargeback request for him. Requesting a
chargeback is a voluntary process for card providers run by the card schemes, and providers
(and cardholders) are subject to the chargeback rules. I havent considered whether Visa
ought to have allowed this refund. That question is outside the remit of this decision. Im
considering here whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ns
request for a refund under the chargeback process, given it chose to do this.
Section 75 of the CCA offers protection to consumers by making the lender jointly and
severally responsible for any misrepresentation or breach of contract for goods paid for with
credit. Ive considered whether HSBC treated Mr N unfairly by not accepting liability for the
cost of the boiler and refunding him the money he paid for it. Let me say at this point that Im
satisfied the CCA is relevant here taking into account the cost of the boiler, the amount Mr N
paid for with his credit card and the relationships between the parties involved.
Ill look at what happened regarding both of these refund processes beginning with the
chargeback request.
What happened with Mr Ns chargeback request?
My understanding of the Visa rules is that Mr N needed to submit a chargeback claim within
120 calendar days of the transaction processing date (29 July 2021) or the date he receivedthe boiler. Ive taken the delivery date as 30 July 2021 as this is what Mr N said in a claim
form. The deadline was therefore 27 November 2021 at the latest.
In some cases a claim can be submitted within 60 calendar days of the date the card issuer
(HSBC) received the first cardholder notification of the dispute (if there is evidence in the
notification of previous ongoing negotiations between the cardholder and the merchant to
resolve the dispute which occurred within 120 days of the transaction processing date). In
other words, if Mr N and the retailer had been in discussion about what happened when
HSBC received his notification on 5 November, the claim deadline could have been
4 January 2022. Mr N sent a letter to the retailer asking to return the boiler on 14 October
2021 but didnt receive a reply. He confirmed this in his completed dispute resolution form
dated 9 November. So it doesnt seem to me that this later deadline applied here.
When Mr N complained to HSBC on 2 November he sent it a detailed letter about what
happened, along with the detailed letter hed sent to the retailer on the 14 October. He
included a copy of the invoice and receipt and a copy of the page from the manufacturers
brochure describing the boiler. I understand that Mr N completed the dispute resolution form
online on 9 November and uploaded supporting documents with the form. He confirmed in
the form that hed sent a letter to the retailer but had been unsuccessful in contacting them
and that hed tried to return the goods, also unsuccessfully. He explained that a professional
boiler fitter had assessed his situation, modified his heating system and installed a different
boiler in another location. I understand this cost him £5,650 which he paid for with the same
credit card.
HSBC sent Mr N a letter on 22 November requesting further information to include an
invoice, terms and conditions, all correspondence between himself and the retailer and a
detailed letter explaining the events that took place, as it was unclear of the dispute.
Mr N said he received this letter on 27 November and as there was no specific forwarding
address for the information asked for in the letter he contacted the telephone number stated
in the text of the letter for further assistance. Mr N said that the representative was unsure of
the address and transferred him internally. He abandoned the call after 45 minutes of
silence. Mr N then visited his local branch who advised him to send it to the address shown
on the letter and he did so on 29 November. He explained in the letter that he had sent all
this information with his original complaint letter of the 2 November and had included some
of it in his online dispute complaint submission on the 9th. Nevertheless he included all the 
information as before.
Meanwhile HSBC sent another letter to Mr N that same day (29 November) asking for an
invoice, proof of return, proof of what was not as described and proof of attempts to resolve
the matter with the retailer.
Mr N replied to this letter on 6 December. He said that he would now send for the third time
copies of all the correspondence and information that he had relating to his dispute and
would also send everything to another HSBC address to ensure the bank had everything it
needed. Mr N also said he was concerned as it seemed his claim was being dealt with by
multiple people. He also said that the letters werent signed and werent specific about what
was required which led him to question whether the correspondence was genuine.
HSBC accepted that Mr N received poor service when he tried to call for an update on his
case. It apologised and paid him £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience
this caused.
HSBC sent a letter to Mr N on 14 February asking for the information again and requested
that he complete another disputed transaction form. Mr N said he called the bank and wentthrough the form with the representative and was told his claim had been submitted.
HSBC then sent two letters to Mr N both dated the 21 February. One explained that it had
credited his account with £1,699.99 and was looking into things for him. The other asked for
an independent report that the goods received were not as described and for a detailed letter
explaining the events which took place. Mr N replied to these in a letter dated 1 March in
which he reminded HSBC that hed sent all this information for the fourth time on 6
December.
Visa declined the chargeback claim in March 2022 because it had been successfully
challenged by the retailer who explained that it stated on its website and on the boiler
packaging that boilers which have been unboxed/opened are non-returnable. Visa said the
claim was also declined because it had been submitted outside of the permitted time limit.
On 31 March HSBC sent a letter to Mr N asking for him to call as it needed more details from
him before it could pursue a claim. It also said that the credit it had applied to his account
would be reversed in 7 days from the date of the letter if it didnt hear from him.
Mr N said he received this letter on 6 April and attempted to get in touch by phone. He said
he was on hold for about two and a half hours only to be told that the relevant department
was closed. He experienced the same issue the following day having been on hold for more
than six hours altogether. Mr N explained all of this in a letter to HSBC dated 11 April, along
with a timeline of key events relating to his claim. He wrote to HSBC again on 20 April saying
that he was almost at the end of his tether.
HSBC wrote to Mr N on 22 April to apologise for his recent experience and offered him £30
compensation. It told him his claim was ongoing. As mentioned above, HSBC took the claim
to pre-arbitration, in other words it appealed the initial decline. It then took the claim to
arbitration, in other words submitted a final appeal. HSBC wrote to Mr N on 8 August to tell
him his claim had been declined as it was made outside the time limits and that it would re-
debit the boiler cost to his card on 15 August, which I understand happened.
My considerations
Having reviewed all the available information I was unsure why HSBC sent Mr N a letter on
22 November 2021 given hed provided the information requested and there was very little
time left before his claim would be invalid. I was also unsure why HSBC wrote to Mr N again
on 29 November asking for similar information. It was now outside of the 120 days and the
claim would be invalid.
I asked HSBC why it requested more information from Mr N in November and again in
March when it seemed to me that it had all the information it needed to submit his claim by 9
November 2021. I also asked why it had then pursued the claim all the way to arbitration
when it had been out of time by the 27 November.
HSBC said that around that time (November 2021) the team dealing with disputes were still
managing caseloads following the aftermath of the pandemic which set the team back many 
months and caused an internal delay in raising the chargeback claim with Visa. The team 
made their best endeavours to get the decline overturned for Mr N because he had raised
his dispute with it within 120 days.
HSBC also said that there seemed little prospect of a successful outcome with the
chargeback as it was difficult to prove that the retailer had provided a product that was not
as described, especially where its been found the customer had opted to purchase goods
without any professional guidance and is holding the retailer and manufacturer accountable
for advice provided in a manual which is there to guide only.HSBC explained that it would usually process a chargeback claim in the first instance to
attempt to obtain a refund from the merchant under the relevant scheme where possible.
Once the arbitration ruling had been made on Mr Ns chargeback claim in August 2022 it
was for another team to review his Section 75 claim. I understand that this didnt happen and
wasnt picked up by the Section 75 team until this Service asked HSBC for its response to
Mr Ns complaint referral. The HSBC complaint handler notified the relevant team in mid-
November 2022.
As mentioned, the card scheme sets the rule for the chargeback process. Although Mr N
raised a request in time with HSBC it didnt manage to raise the request with Visa in the time
allowed. HSBC apologised to Mr N on two occasions throughout the process when he had
problems getting in touch and paid him a total of £80 compensation.
However, I dont think HSBC has acknowledged the stress and inconvenience it caused to
Mr N during its pursuit of a chargeback claim which was outside of the time limit by asking
him several times for information he had already provided to the extent that he wasnt sure if
the information requests were genuine; by not explaining why the information requested was
necessary to the claim and by not explaining the chargeback process and how that might
delay a Section 75 claim. Mr N told us that he found the banks actions unacceptable
considering the time its taken to resolve the situation and the distress and frustration that he
experienced during the process.
There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of
errors. We have an approach (which is set out on our website) which Ive borne in mind
alongside everything else when making this decision. The approach set out on our website
includes examples of awards of over £300 and up to £750 where a mistake has caused
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption
that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or
months. I think an award in this range would be appropriate here.
Mr N said that in order to resolve his complaint he would like a refund of the amount he paid
for the boiler. He said he holds HSBC totally responsible for the failure of his claim because
it was raised outside the 120 day time limit.
However, this wasnt the only reason Visa gave for declining the claim. It initially declined it
not only because it was raised outside of the time limit but because it was successfully
challenged by the retailer. Visa said in its decline notification that the retailer had explained
that it didnt offer refunds if the boiler had been unboxed and that this information was
available prior to the purchase. Mr N had installed the boiler by the time he realised that it
was unsuitable for his property and so he was unable to return it.
It seems to me therefore that Mr Ns claim wouldnt have succeeded even if it had been
submitted within the time limits required and I dont think it would be appropriate for HSBC to
pay the cost of the boiler in lieu of a refund from Visa.
What happened with Mr Ns Section 75 request?
Mr N complained that the information about the boiler provided in the manufacturers sales
brochure was misleading: it described the boiler as a perfect replacement for old floor-
standing boilers, it didnt mention that there were only three types of flue suitable for use with
the boiler nor did it direct buyers to check the installation requirements. Mr N said that the
boiler was not fit for purpose as there wasnt a suitable flue he could source which would
enable it to be installed in his property.I dont know if Mr N ever received a response from HSBC regarding its review of his claim
for a refund under Section 75 - I havent seen any correspondence from HSBC providing an
outcome to that request. It told us in March of this year that the information Mr N relied on
when making up his mind about the boiler was provided for guidance and the retailer wasnt
at fault if Mr N later found the boiler to be unsuitable having purchased it without professional
advice.
My considerations
In thinking about whether HSBC treated Mr N fairly when he asked for a refund under
Section 75, my considerations include:
Whether the boiler was misrepresented to Mr N. In other words, was Mr N told 
something untrue about the boiler which induced him to buy it when otherwise he 
would not have?
Was Mr N provided with enough clear, fair and not misleading information to make an 
informed decision about the boiler?
Whether there was a breach of contract on the part of the supplier, for example was 
the boiler of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, which would include aspects 
such as fitness for purpose?
In order to find that the boiler was misrepresented to Mr N Id need to find that he was told a
false statement of fact about the boiler which induced him into buying it. For example, if Mr N
had a conversation with the sales representative about his particular requirements and was
told that he would be able to replace his existing boiler in its location with this specific one.
Mr N told us that he decided to buy the boiler after consulting the manufacturers sales
brochure and finding one that was the equivalent size and output to his original boiler. He
said that the boiler was misrepresented to him because of the wording in the brochure which
stated that the boilers from the series in question are a perfect replacement for old floor
standing boilers. It doesnt seem to me that this is a statement of fact about the particular
boiler Mr N bought but more a sales pitch for the boiler series as a whole. I think its fair to
say that Mr N was aware he needed to investigate the specifications of the boiler to check it
would work in his particular circumstances, so I dont think he took this statement to be
factually true at the time.
The retailer said in response to Visas investigation into Mr Ns chargeback request that it
didnt accept boiler returns if the packaging had been opened. It said that this disclaimer is
specified on its website page for this item as well as on the packaging itself, which Mr N
should have seen when purchasing in store. The retailer said that the staff in store advise
customers about the returns policy when processing an order. Ive checked the retailers
website and its clear that Mr N would be unable to return the boiler once the packaging had
been opened. I appreciate that Mr N bought the boiler in store, but given the specific nature
of the returns policy I think its more likely than not that he would have been aware of it when
making his purchase. 
Mr N said that he was aware that the boiler didnt come supplied with a flue and so hed
need to source one. The installation instructions for the boiler and the recommended flues 
are available on the manufacturers website and it wasnt necessary for Mr N to open the
boiler packaging to retrieve them. Mr N was able to source another potential flue online and
read its installation instructions so its likely he would have been able to source the
installation instructions for the boiler and the recommended flues without invalidating the
retailers return policy. Mr N learnt from the installation instructions that the two
recommended flues wouldnt work in his circumstances. Unfortunately for Mr N he could
have found this out sooner had he considered more aspects of the boilers specifications
prior to purchase.Mr N said that the boiler wasnt fit for purpose for his particular circumstances but I havent
seen anything which makes me think it wasnt fit for purpose generally, in other words could
be used for the purpose for which it was sold had it been installed and commissioned as per
the installation instructions. Mr N mentioned that the professional boiler fitter informed him
that even if his chimney had the diameter required to fit the flexible flue hed investigated that
it wouldnt install the boiler hed purchased. I understand that another boiler was installed in
an alternative location as it was deemed to be a more practical and least expensive
solution. I have no further information on this point however and cant find that the fitter
determined that the boiler Mr N purchased was not fit for purpose generally or was of
unsatisfactory quality in some other way. I understand that Mr N has recently sold the boiler.
In summary, I think Mr N had all the information he needed, or had access to it, to make an
informed decision about the necessary specifications of the boiler before buying and
unpacking it. I dont think the boiler was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied or that it had
been misrepresented to Mr N on the basis of the sales literature. It follows that I dont think
HSBC treated Mr N unfairly by not offering him a refund in accordance with the Section 75
provisions.
Putting things right
Ive found that HSBC didnt treat Mr N fairly when it processed a chargeback request on his
behalf and that it should pay him compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience this
caused to him. Having considered this point carefully and borne in mind our approach to
compensation for the emotional impact of errors, I think an award of £400, in addition to the
compensation its already paid, would be appropriate in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mr Ns complaint in part and HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should now compensate him as Ive set out.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman