DRN-3452243
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank PLC told them that their package bank account 
would be free if they kept a certain minimum balance in the account, but that it has now said 
it will charge a monthly fee anyway. They say this is a breach of contract. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have banked with Lloyds for very many decades. 
Mr K says he opened the Gold account because Lloyds told him he wouldnt pay any fees if 
he had a minimum amount in credit. He says the Lloydss written information at the time had 
nothing to suggest it could alter this in the future.
In a leaflet printed in 1990, Lloyds gave details of the Gold account. It said that it was a new 
type of current account for Lloyds Bank customers earning £20,000 a year or more. 
The leaflet shows that, at that stage, the account offered mainly banking benefits such as 
higher interest benefits and cheaper overdrafts, although it also had some basic travel 
accident insurance. 
At least by 1996, and probably much earlier, I can see that the monthly fee was waived if 
£1,000 was kept in the account that month.  
From 1997, Lloyds began to add insurance and other benefits. The monthly fee was still 
waived, if the balance was over £1,000 each month. The Gold account currently still offers a 
package of benefits including worldwide travel insurance, AA breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance and a limited interest-free overdraft. 
In 2021, Lloyds told Gold account customers that it would no longer apply the fee waiver. 
Mr and Mrs K say this is a breach of the agreement Lloyds made with them when they 
started the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the case and said they thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Overall, I dont have good evidence that Lloyds is contractually bound to continue with the 
fee waiver, or that it hasnt generally acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr and 
Mrs Ks account on this point. 
Mr K has mentioned that, about 10 years ago in a meeting at the bank, Lloyds staff 
admitted to him that the bank couldnt withdraw the account benefits, including the fee 
waiver, unless he himself agreed to close his account. Lloyds has told us it has no record 
of that discussion. However, Ive not looked at this point, as I dont see that such 
comments by staff would have bound Lloyds into continuing with the waiver now. 
Ive looked at what information there is, and what Lloyds is likely to have agreed with its 
customers in running the account. 
A booklet about the Gold account, issued in July 1997, said:
If you maintain a minimum balance of £1,000 during the monthly charging period 
(from the 10th of one month to the 9th of the following month) The Gold Service 
Current Account fee is waived; otherwise theres a charge of £8 a month. 
I dont have a copy of the official terms and conditions that applied when the Gold account 
first started. But I think it highly likely that Lloyds would, when agreeing to open 
Mr and Mrs Ks account, have said that it reserved the right to change the features and 
costs of the account, or to close it down. This has been a standard feature of banking 
terms and conditions for a very long time. 
And I can see that this is reflected in the earliest documents I have available to me for the 
Gold account. A sales leaflet for the account from February 1990 says, The Bank may 
also at any time refuse to open or continue an account or refuse any deposit. 
And a booklet about the Gold account from July 1997 says:
Lloyds Bank may vary the service and facilities offered in its Gold Service Current 
Account on giving notice to you, if and when it is necessary or appropriate to do 
so to reflect alterations in the scope and nature of the service which we are able 
to provide to customers in accordance with our systems capabilities and routines 
and having regard to market practice and overall customer demand.
So Im satisfied that Lloyds has the contractual right to vary the terms of the account in the 
way it has. I also dont see any regulatory restriction on the way it has changed the terms 
of the account. 
I appreciate what Mr K says he was told when opening the account. But I dont see that 
Lloyds has bound itself into permanently making the offer of a fee waiver  anything Mr K  
was told would have to be understood within the context of the wider terms and 
conditions. In my view, Lloyds will have retained the right to change the terms of the 
account in future. 
It may be that Mr and Mrs K were misled by Lloyds, about what they could expect; and I 
do appreciate that the recent change has been disappointing. But I dont think they have 
been treated unfairly by the change itself.  So far, theyve had the benefit of insurance 
products without having to pay a fee for them (although they did have to keep a high-
enough balance to ensure the fee waiver). And in future they can still avoid paying for the 
insurance benefits, by switching to a fee-free account. My final decision
For the reasons give, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman