DRN-4313409
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
trading as Oodle Car Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Oodle.
At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had covered around 92,717 miles.
Within a week of getting the car, Mr D experienced some issues with the turbo. The turbo, 
the vacuum filter and the pressure pump were replaced under warranty in January 2022.
In March 2022 the throttle activator and the rear wiper motor were replaced under warranty.
Mr D experienced further issues with the car in October 2022. The transmission was 
repaired.
Mr D raised a complaint with Oodle about the quality of the car. Oodle didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it hadnt been provided with an independent inspection report to confirm 
the faults. It offered Mr D £542 in settlement of his complaint, which included £111.70 
towards his travel costs and £430.30 towards the £800 excess which Mr Ds warranty 
provider had charged him towards repairs.
In January 2023 Mr D experienced further issues with the car. the car lost power whilst it 
was being road tested following repairs. The repairing garage refused to carry out further 
work. The warranty provider agreed to replace the intercooler and the diverter valve control 
solenoid but said that in their opinion, the engine had suffered internal damage caused by 
the defective intercooler. The warranty company refused to carry out any more repairs after 
this. Mr D obtained a quote for a replacement engine and raised a further complaint with 
Oodle.
Oodle arranged an independent inspection of the car which took place in February 2023. 
The report concluded that further investigations were necessary to identify the cause and 
extent of the issues. The report stated that the current faults werent present at the point of 
supply and werent associated with the previous repairs.
Based on the findings of the report, Oodle didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It spoke to the 
dealership to see if it was willing to contribute towards a replacement engine but the 
dealership refused. Oodle offered to reimburse Mr Ds travel costs as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt think that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and wants to reject it. He says hes been 
unable to use the car since January 2023 and has had to purchase another vehicle.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that although there was a fault with 
the car, there was no evidence that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply, or that the fault was associated with the previous repairs. The investigator concluded 
that the fault was likely to be due to reasonable wear and tear.
Mr D didnt agree. He said hed experienced many faults since purchasing the car, and said 
hed paid for some of the repairs himself. He said he didnt think the car shouldve passed a 
MOT in 2021 because it had an illegal number plate, for which it failed a MOT the following 
year. Mr D challenged the independent inspection report and said he knew that the 
intercooler had nothing to do with the engine because he was a qualified mechanic. Mr D 
also said that he hadnt received the goodwill payment of £350 which Oodle said it would 
pay to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr D  to have a degree of 
wear and tear and to require repair more often than a  brand new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car which was 
present at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear and 
tear.
Ive reviewed all of the available evidence about the issues which occurred with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because the 
diagnostic reports state that the car is misfiring. And the independent inspection report states 
that the engine misfires, surges and stalls.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. Ive reviewed all of the available evidence to determine whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D.
At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had covered around 92,700 miles. 
The first issue with the car related to the turbo, vacuum filter and pressure pump. Mr D has 
told this service that these issues occurred within the first two weeks of him getting the car. 
Mr D accepted repairs of these issue sunder the warranty.
The second issue with the car related to the throttle and rear wiper motor in March 2022. Mr 
D accepted repairs of these issues under the warranty.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that these repairs werent successful.
Mr D experienced further issues with the car in October 2022. It was around this time that he 
first raised a complaint with Oodle. Repairs were already underway at the point when Mr D 
complained, and because of this Oodle said it wasnt possible to arrange an independent 
inspection to confirm what the fault was and who was liable for the costs of repair. Not all of 
the repair costs were covered by the warranty and Oodle paid a proportion of the repair 
costs.It was after these repairs had been completed that the car went into limp mode when it was 
being road tested.
Oodle arranged for an independent inspection of the car. Ive reviewed the inspection report 
carefully. The main conclusions of the reporting engineer are as follows:
The cause of the fault isnt known but the fault wasnt present at the point of supply 
and isnt related to the previous repairs
The induction system needs to be cleaned. Any repairs needed to return the car to 
serviceable condition will be needed because of age related general wear and tear 
as it would not be considered unusual to clean the induction system in a vehicle 
which had covered over 104,000 miles
Although there is an underlying issue with the vehicle, this is considered to be the 
result of natural wear and tear through general usage which has developed into an 
issue that requires rectification after purchase
Theres nothing in the independent report to suggest that the faults with the car were present 
or developing at the point of supply. The report specifically states that the fault is due to wear 
and tear. It also states that all of the previous repairs have been taken into account and 
arent associated with the current fault.
Based on what Ive seen and taking into account the conclusions of the independent report, 
Im unable to say that theres evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
I appreciate that Mr D feels that the MOT carried out immediately prior to him getting the car 
is questionable. Hes said that because the illegal number plate wasnt identified at this 
MOT, other issues that go to the quality of the car werent identified either. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that the MOT carried out on the car before it was supplied to Mr D 
isnt reliable. Even if the number plate was illegal (as Mr D puts it), I dont think this is a 
persuasive factor here. I say this because the checks carried out at a MOT dont cover the 
condition of the engine.
I appreciate that Mr D has experienced a number of issues with the car, and I understand 
how frustrating this can be. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
that there is enough evidence for me to be able to conclude that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Because of this, I wont be asking Oodle to do 
anything further.
Mr D has told this service that Oodle hasnt reimbursed him the £350 towards his travel 
costs that it said it would in its letter dated 3 March 2023. Although Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint about the quality of the car, I would expect Oodle to pay this sum, so Im asking it 
to check and see whether it has sent the payment to Mr D and if it hasnt, to send it now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman