DRN-4175078
The complaint
Mrs A says that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer Finance
(Hitachi) who changed their name to Novuna Personal Finance in 2022, have made
inaccurate reports to her credit file. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this account is currently being reported correctly and Im inclined to ask Hitachi
to remedy that.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
In early 2021, following a complaint Mrs A escalated to this Service, Hitachi agreed that they
had defaulted Mrs As finance agreement prematurely. They accepted our investigators
proposal that the default should be removed from Mrs As credit file, but they explained that
the reports theyd made to the file for missed payments, were accurate, and would need to
remain.
Mrs A supplied us with a copy of her credit report at the time of her initial complaint, it was
dated 8 December 2020 and it showed that the balance of her account was £3,804 and that
it had been defaulted the previous month when the account was 4 months in arrears.
At the time our investigator explained that she believed Mrs A would have paid her account
off in full in December 2020 had Hitachi explained how much needed to be paid. So, I think it
was clear at that point that the default needed to be removed and there should be no further
adverse reports made to Mrs As credit file as it wasnt her fault the correct payment wasnt
made.
Having reviewed Mrs As credit file now I can see that the default has been removed and
that the balance is correct. But the account status is showing as 6 months late, and I dont
think that was what was agreed. As, the account was four months late when the default was
applied and in Mrs As previous complaint it had been agreed that any failure to pay on time
after that was a result of her not being informed of the correct balance.
I understand that the loan was sold on 30 November 2018 to a company Ill call L and that
inaccurate report may have been made by L. But I think it was Hitachis responsibility to
ensure L knew about the outcome of that complaint so that the credit file could be updated,
and I think they should now liaise with L to ensure that is done if they cannot amend the
credit report themselves.
For clarity the credit file should show missed/late payments in July, August, September, and
October 2020 only.
I think Mrs A has experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of Hitachi not
reporting this matter correctly. I dont think I have sufficient evidence shes been financially
disadvantaged directly by this failure, but Mrs A has had to escalate a further complaint to
this service when I think she could have expected Hitachi to put things right for her. In the
circumstances, Im expecting to ask Hitachi to pay her £100 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to tell Hitachi to amend Mrs As credit file to
ensure it shows 4 missed payments for July, August, September, and October 2018. They
should liaise with L to ensure thats possible, and they should pay Mrs A £100 to
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Additional comments or evidence
Mrs A accepted my provisional decision and so did Hitachi.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional comments or evidence that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision and it therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to 
amend Mrs As credit file to ensure it shows 4 missed payments for July, August, 
September, and October 2018. They should liaise with L to ensure thats possible, and they 
should pay Mrs A £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman