DRN-3589856
The complaint
Mr M complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs settlement of his travel insurance claim. My 
references to AXA include its agents 
What happened
Mr M had annual trip travel insurance insured by AXA. He was the only person insured on 
the policy. In early 2021 he booked a trip in the UK for himself and his wife and they were 
due to travel in October 2021.
Just before the trip start date Mr M cancelled and claimed on the policy for the non-
refundable cost of the holiday accommodation. When he claimed he told AXA his wife was 
unable to travel as his mother-in-law was in hospital (which had happened very recently), he 
and his wife were her main carers and hed hurt his back when he helped his mother-in-law 
when she became unwell.
AXA accepted the claim as the cancellation was for an insured reason under the policy. But  
AXA said as Mr Ms wife wasnt insured on the policy it would only pay 50% of the costs.
Mr M didnt agree. His main points were that hed cancelled the trip because he couldnt 
travel due to his back pain and sciatica, his mother-in-laws ill health hadnt prevented him 
from going on the trip and he paid for the accommodation in full which would have been the 
same price regardless of whether his wife had stayed. AXA didnt change its mind. It said the 
accommodation was booked for two people and as the policy only covered Mr M it would 
pay 50% of the cost.
Mr M complained to us. He wants AXA to pay the full claim.
Our investigator said AXAs settlement of 50% of the claim was fair.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He emphasised that he would have 
stayed at the accommodation on his own, even after his wife decided not to go, but couldnt 
because of his medical condition. He thought AXAs policy wasnt flexible to family 
circumstances as travelling arrangements often change.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say that AXA must handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably. I find that AXA fairly settled 
the claim by paying 50% of the costs Mr M claimed. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr Ms contract of insurance with AXA. 
Insurers can decide what risks they want to insure and I need to consider what Mr Ms policy 
says about his cover.
The policy says for a valid cancellation claim AXA will pay:
Your proportion only of your irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs. 
The policy defines your as:-
Each person travelling on a trip and named on the policy schedule.
The policy schedule shows Mr M is the only named insured person.
Under the General exclusions applying to your policy section the policy says:-
Your policy does not cover you for any claim directly or indirectly resulting from any 
of the following: .
20. Any person not insured or named on this policy. This policy is not intended to 
cover any costs which relate to anybody not insured on this policy; please ensure 
that all persons travelling have sufficient insurance to cover their needs. This applies 
even where you have paid for the additional costs for example, if you have paid for 
another persons travel or accommodation costs
Ive considered all Mr M has said about why he thinks AXAs settlement is unfair. 
I understand he paid the full cost of the accommodation, he says he only named his wife on 
the booking due to the booking system, the cost for him alone would have been the same 
and he would have stayed in the accommodation on his own but for his medical condition. 
But the issue remains that he booked the accommodation for rental for him and his wife, as 
the cancellation letter from the accommodation provider confirms. So Im satisfied that AXA 
fairly considered the cancelled trip had been for Mr M and his wife and he cancelled the 
booking for both of them. The policy has a very clear exclusion that AXA will only pay for the 
costs that relate to Mr M, who is the insured person, regardless of whether he paid on behalf 
of others. So the policy terms are clear that only 50% of the cost Mr M claimed is covered.
Ive also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay the full claim, 
even though the policy terms mean only 50% of the claim is covered. Mr M says the policy 
isnt flexible to family circumstances as travelling arrangements often change. I accept that 
family holiday arrangements can change. But Ive seen nothing in the policy that suggests if 
Mr M paid costs for a person who wasnt insured by the policy those costs would be covered 
by the policy, even if the uninsured person was his wife. The policy documents are clear 
Mr M is the only insured person and he could have chosen to buy insurance to cover his 
wife.
In these circumstances I find that AXAs settlement of 50% of the cost Mr M claimed is in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and Ive no basis to say the 50% settlement was 
unreasonable. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman