DRN-4188083
The complaint
Ms As complained that, at the point she tried to pay Co-op Funeral Plans Limited for a 
funeral plan, Co-op could find no record of her contact with them.
What happened
In early 2022, Ms A decided she wanted to buy a pre-paid funeral plan.  Co-op was her 
preferred provider.  At that time, pre-paid funeral plans werent regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).  But Ms A knew that was going to change in summer 2022.  So 
she decided to postpone her purchase until after regulation was introduced.
She contacted Co-op in August 2022 and was told they were reviewing and amending the 
plans they were going to offer.  Ms A says she called Co-op regularly for updates.  In 
October 2022, she was told plans were available.  She had a long call with Co-op during 
which she chose her plan.  She was told details would be emailed to her and she would 
need to make payment within the following month.
Ms A didnt receive any information by email.  So she called Co-op to find out how to make 
payment.  During that call, she was told there was no record of her plan.
Ms A complained.  Co-op investigated and couldnt find any record of her plan.  They 
apologised and suggested this could be a system error.  And they paid Ms A £100 to 
apologise.
Ms A wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response and brought her complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Co-op didnt need to do anything more to resolve 
the complaint.  Whilst he accepted Co-op perhaps could have kept more detailed records of 
Ms As contact, and he noted shed been frustrated by what had happened, he thought 
thered only been a small impact on Ms A and that had been fairly compensated by the £100 
Co-op had paid her.
Ms A didnt agree with our investigators view and said she thought the payment of £100 
wasnt enough to hold Co-op to account for what had happened and they should be directed 
to donate a larger sum to charity.  Ive now been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from what Ive read that Ms A is concerned about her dealings with Co-op.  And I 
understand it was distressing to find that, despite going through the process to set up a pre-
paid funeral, there was no record shed done so.  As a result, Ms A has now chosen to buy a 
pre-paid funeral plan from another provider.
But I can only say Co-op should do more to address her complaint if Im satisfied that they 
did something wrong here  and that the £100 Co-op have paid isnt enough to recognise 
that.  I have to think about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I have to 
bear in mind that businesses dont always get things right.  Mistakes happen.
Ms A has provided evidence she called Co-op during August and September 2022.  Shes 
said this was to check on when the plans would be available.  But, at that time, nothing could 
be done to progress her wishes.  So, while Co-op could have kept more detailed records of 
these calls, I dont think failing to do so had any impact on Ms A.
I accept Ms As testimony that she had a long call with Co-op in October, during which she 
believed a plan had been set up.  She was told shed receive that plan by email.  It was only 
when she followed this up about four weeks later, she was told Co-op had no record of that 
call.
I agree thats unfortunate.  Co-op say there must have been a system error.  Ms A is 
reluctant to accept that explanation.
While I understand Ms As position, the evidence and testimony shes provided show that 
she contacted Co-op  not that contact was recorded on their system.  It is unfortunately the 
case that systems used by businesses do on occasion fail to do what they should.  Although 
theres no definitive evidence that the information on the call was lost by the system, I do 
think thats the most likely explanation for what happened.  The alternative is that Co-op 
deliberately wiped Ms As information, meaning they couldnt sell her a funeral plan.  I think 
thats much less likely.
What remains is for me to consider the impact that error had on Ms A.  Shes challenged the 
investigators conclusion on that point.
Ms As provided us with information about other issues in her life which impact on her.  I was 
sorry to read the details.  Its clear the issues have a significant and ongoing effect on Ms As 
daily life.  But that doesnt necessarily mean Co-op should pay an increased amount of 
compensation.
And I must make clear that any compensation I direct relates only to Ms A and the complaint 
shes made.  I cant  as she suggests I should - make a direction that Co-op pay a sum 
which holds them accountable for their wider dealings with customers.  That is the remit of 
the FCA, which can fine a business if it decides thats appropriate.   
Having considered the matter, Im satisfied the impact on Ms A was that, having been under 
the impression shed arranged a plan with Co-op, she then had to make those arrangements 
again.  She chose to do that with a different provider, as she was entitled to do.
I think £100 is a fair sum for having to do that.  It was undoubtedly inconvenient.  But Ms A 
was never under the impression a plan was in place when that wasnt the case, because she 
knew she had to make her initial payment first.  She didnt pay for a service she didnt 
receive.  And, as Ive said above, I dont think Co-op were let down by their system.
Taking all that into account, I dont think Co-op need to do any more to resolve Ms As 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint about Co-op Funeral 
Plans Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman