DRN-3267653
The complaint
Mr A complains TSB Bank plc wont refund him for an exchange rate loss.
What happened
Mr A sent a payment to America, in US Dollars. The payment couldnt be credited to the 
recipients account, so it was returned to Mr As account. But Mr A received back less money 
than he sent.
Mr A complained to TSB, saying the online international payment process wasnt user 
friendly. Mr A said it was unclear what information needed to go where.
TSB responded to say Mr A had entered the wrong details where the account number 
needed to go. TSB said because of this the payment was returned and Mr A lost money.
Unhappy with this response Mr A brought his complaint here. Mr A said he has dyslexia and 
feels TSBs online payment process wasnt clear enough for him.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought Mr A had made an error when completing the form. And the investigator 
thought the online payment process was clear enough.
The investigator couldnt see anything to say Mr A had told TSB about his dyslexia. And the 
investigator thought if Mr A had found the online payment process confusing, he could have 
contacted TSB for help.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide things for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the message TSB received from the American bank. Its clear the wrong 
details had been used, so the payment couldnt be credited.
But the Sterling Mr A sent had already been converted into US Dollars. To return the 
payment to Mr A, and recredit his TSB account, the US Dollars had to be converted back to 
Sterling. This meant Mr A received back less money than he sent.
Mr A would like this shortfall refunded. I can only fairly ask TSB to make the refund if I think 
its done something wrong. If I think Mr A made a mistake, I cant fairly ask TSB to refund the 
loss he incurred.
Both Mr A and the investigator have focussed on how TSB online overseas payment 
process works. But Ive looked at what Mr A was sent by the people he was due to pay, I 
think this is the most important piece of evidence.
Mr A was sent instructions about how to make an overseas payment to the American bank. 
These instructions show a nine-digit routing and transit number and a ten-digit final credit 
account number.
At the bottom of the instructions, with some words in bold, it says the full ten-digit account 
number must be used. The instructions then say any overseas payments received without 
the ten-digit account number may be returned.
When Mr A first completed the online overseas payment he entered the nine-digit routing 
and transit number in the IBAN/account number box. This payment was returned.
Mr A sent a second payment a little over a week after the first. This time Mr A entered the 
ten-digit account number in the IBAN/account number box. This payment successfully 
credited the recipients account.
It seems Mr A didnt follow the instructions from the people he wanted to pay. And Mr A 
entered a number that wasnt the account number in the box where TSB wanted the account 
number. When Mr A entered the account number in that box the payment was successful.
I think TSBs online overseas payment process is clear enough where its asking for the 
account number. I cant fairly hold TSB responsible for Mr A not putting the account number 
in the correct box, especially when I think its clear what was required.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said about his dyslexia. But I cant see Mr A had 
previously told TSB about his dyslexia or asked for any reasonable adjustments. And Mr A 
always had the option of calling TSB, or visiting a branch, if he found the form unclear.
Its unfortunate the first payment was returned, and Mr A lost money. But I dont think this 
was TSBs fault, so I wont be asking it to do anything more to resolve Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman