DRN-3276558
The complaint and what happened
Miss C complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund transactions she didnt make 
otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
Miss C was between meetings at work when she received a call from someone 
purporting to be Starling. The caller was in fact a scammer. Miss C says she was told 
direct debits had been set up and the bank wanted to check they were legitimate. 
Miss C said they werent. 
The caller verified Miss C by asking various personal information and information 
about her account. She was also asked to confirm a code that appeared on her 
phone interface; she usually needs to provide when speaking with Starling  this was 
in fact a different code needed to make a payment. The following day Miss C noted 
two transactions that she didnt recognise one for £0.10 and another for £3,012.13 
that were pending. It isnt clear the 10p was ever paid (it doesnt appear on the 
statements) but £3,012.13 was.
She contacted Starling who said it couldnt stop the payment. And when she 
complained it didnt uphold her complaint and didnt refund the payment as it said it 
had been authorised using the online payment code. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she wasnt persuaded Miss C had 
authorised or consented to the payment. And she didnt find Miss C had acted with 
intent or gross negligence but that as this was a distance contract this didnt apply. 
Starling disagreed. It said Miss C has received scam calls for other banks and should 
have been more live to it, and due to working in the banking industry herself. That 
she had never been asked for a code to authorise a payment ought to have been a 
flag and its found in a different part of the app to the customer service code. The 
transaction needed the online payment code, which Miss C shared despite the 
message alongside the code saying that Starling would never ask for it. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following 
reasons:
In-line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss C isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise unless she failed with gross negligence, or intent, to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. 
Under section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, expect where a payer has acted fraudulently, the 
payer is not liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract. A distance contract means a contract concluded between a trader 
and a consumer under an organised distance sales or service-provision scheme 
without the simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer subject 
to some exemptions (as per regulation 5 of the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. There isnt any provision 
within this part of the PSRs that holds Miss C liable for the transaction if it was 
unauthorised, even if she acted with gross negligence or intent (which I make no 
finding about here). 
The transactions made on Miss Cs account were on-line payments. As the payment 
instrument was used in conjunction with a distance contract, gross negligence isnt a 
factor for my consideration. Under the PSRs Starling can only hold Miss C liable for it 
if she either authorised the transaction or she acted fraudulently. There is no 
persuasive evidence, nor has Starling sought to argue, that she acted fraudulently. 
Therefore, my consideration is solely in relation to whether Mrs G authorised the 
transaction. 
Starling as said Miss C provided the online payment code which enable the 
transaction to complete. I accept she did so, even if she didnt realise that was what 
she was doing (as she says she has never needed to provide such a code before 
when making transaction). But authentication is only part of the process of a payment 
being authorised. Under section 67 of the PSRs, a payment transaction is regarded 
as having been authorised if the payer consents to it ((1)(a)) and that consent must 
be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between the 
payer and its payment service provider ((2)(b)). 
I have considered the terms and conditions Starling have provided to us as being 
applicable. These are largely silent on the form and procedure required to authorise 
the transaction. I think there was most likely a requirement for details to be entered 
onto the merchants website  such as the long card number, the expiry date and the 
three digits from the back of her card. And it appears on some occasions, but not all, 
the online payment code. 
I accept Miss C provided the online payment code required to complete the 
transaction. But as it wasnt Miss C who completed the initial steps required for 
authorising the payment (the inputting of the payment details including destination 
name and account information) and it doesnt appear she was aware, or realised that 
was happening (nor did she authorise anyone else to do so on her behalf), it follows 
that in accordance with section 67 of the PSRs she did not authorise the transaction. 
It follows that under section 77 (4)(d) it cant hold her liable for it and so it needs to 
put that right. 
Under section 76(1) and (2) of the PSRs, a payment service provider must refund the 
amount of an unauthorised transaction and that should be done as soon as is 
practicable. Starling didnt do that and so I uphold this complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint. I require Starling 
Bank Limited to:
Reimburse £3,012.13 to Miss C; and
Rework the account to the position it would have been had it been refunded when 
Miss C raised the matter. This includes the refund of any overdraft interest and 
charges; and
Add 8% simple interest to the above sum from the date Miss C initially disputed the 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman