DRN-4402205
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that Santander UK Plc incorrectly set a fixed repayment amount for 
their Flexible Plus Mortgage.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B say they spoke with Santander in 2016 to set a minimum cap for the 
repayments taken against their Flexible Plus Mortgage. They say they wanted to ensure that 
even if the monthly repayment required for the mortgage reduced, that their monthly 
payment would not. So in effect, they wanted to place a minimum cap on what they would 
pay even if this was more than would have been required. 
On 27 September 2016, Santander wrote to Mrs and Mr B and said the direct debit had been 
updated with a fixed repayment of £837.72 each month and this was to run for five years. 
This letter explained that any overpayments would be made to the savings pot. It also said 
that any changes to the interest rate or drawdowns during this period may increase the 
monthly repayment and it was important that they make sure the arrangement will cover this 
new repayment. 
After this, at different points Mrs and Mr B made a number of drawdowns from the mortgage. 
Confirmation letters were sent after each one and these set out the new monthly repayment 
required. This letter also said any planned under or overpayments are not shown in the 
payments listed and will not be taken into account by the direct debit. 
In December 2021, Mrs and Mr B complained about their monthly repayment amount 
increasing by more than £600. Santander said this was because of the reduced fixed 
payment that had been in place had come to an end and because of the changes to the 
mortgage during this period, it needed to increase the payment by this amount. 
Mrs and Mr B didnt pay the new monthly repayment amount as they felt Santander made a 
mistake in 2016. As a result, arrears built up on the account as they paid less than was 
required and negative information was recorded on their credit file.
Santander looked into their complaint and couldnt agree it had done anything wrong when 
the repayments on the mortgage remained fixed for five years. It said it had acted on the 
instructions of Mrs and Mr B and hadnt made a mistake. And the repayment now due had 
been calculated to fall in line with the remaining term of the mortgage. 
Our investigator looked at Mrs and Mr Bs complaint and didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. From the information hed been provided, he was satisfied the agreement 
had been put in place at the request of Mrs and Mr B and that Santander advised that 
payments would need to be adjusted if they took further drawdowns. 
Mrs and Mr B disagreed with our investigator. They felt their complaint hadnt been properly 
considered and Santander hadnt done what they asked, which was to ensure the minimum 
amount collected didnt drop from September 2016. But they didnt ask for the repayment 
amount to be fixed. They also raised a number of points about Santanders handling of their 
account since the complaint has been with this Service.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged so the complaint has been referred for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mrs and Mr B will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why I dont think Santander 
has done anything wrong.
The crux of Mrs and Mr Bs complaint is that Santander failed to implement their instructions 
correctly when they asked it to set a minimum monthly payment on their account. They say 
they didnt ask for the repayment amount to be fixed so that it couldnt increase, but simply 
so it couldnt decrease as they had no need for it to be made lower. 
Although the phone call is not available from when this instruction was made, Im not 
persuaded that Santander made an error. And even if it didnt follow the instructions Mrs and 
Mr B say they provided, I think its confirmation letter sent after the repayment amount and 
term this was agreed for was clear.
It did not indicate the repayment had a variable option built into it and I think it set out this 
was a fixed payment. Equally, I think it provided guidance that any material changes to the 
mortgage could result in this fixed repayment not being sufficient to meet the minimum 
amount required.  Ive set out the relevant parts of this letter below:
We have now updated your Direct Debit to take a fixed payment of £837.72 each month, 
starting from 10.10.2016 for 5 years.
Please note that any changes in interest rate or drawdowns during the agreed period may 
increase your monthly repayment. In this case its important to make sure that the 
arrangement will cover the new monthly repayment 
Mrs and Mr B have not disputed that after this point drawdowns were made on the mortgage 
and Ive seen the letters sent confirming the drawdown amount and the impact this had on 
the mortgage. These letters confirmed the new payment amount required on the mortgage 
and this was different to what Mrs and Mr B were paying. And as the amount they drew 
down over time increased, the difference between what the statement said was needed to 
be paid and what was paid continued to increase with it. It explained if there was an 
arrangement in place that Mrs and Mr B would need to consider if there are sufficient sums 
to cover the remainder of the arrangement. 
When Mrs and Mr Bs monthly repayment continued at the same amount after each 
drawdown, despite being at odds with the new monthly amount due in line with the 
confirmation letters sent, I think they would have been aware of an error if Santander hadnt 
done what they expected. When this was not challenged, or the direct debit amount 
increased, I think it demonstrates that Mrs and Mr B were happy to have the lower fixed 
repayment amount. 
After the fixed repayment term ended, the mortgage increased to ensure it was inline with 
the overall mortgage term and I dont think Santander has done anything wrong when this 
happened. And when Mrs and Mr B paid less than this amount after the arrangement had ended, Santander had a duty to accurately record how the account was managed with credit 
reference agencies.
Overall, I am not persuaded it failed to follow Mrs and Mr Bs instructions as they have said. I 
think they were aware from the information provided that the repayment was not in line with 
the minimum amount required based on the outstanding balance at different points. But were 
happy to let the lower fixed repayment period continue to run over contacting Santander to 
ensure the payment amount was increased. 
The points Mrs and Mr B have made since this complaint has been raised in relation to 
Santander and its handling of their accounts after this point are separate to this complaint. If 
they feel Santander has acted unfairly here, they will need to raise these complaints with it in 
the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman