DRN-3476488
The complaint
Mrs H complains St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave her unsuitable 
investment advice.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs H received advice from SJP to invest £20,000 into an investment bond which 
would be held in a Loan Trust. SJP said this would help mitigate Mrs Hs potential 
inheritance tax (IHT) liability. The bond was set up to provide an income of £800 per year. 
Mrs H didnt take any withdrawals after 2018. She surrendered the bond in 2021 and paid 
early exit fees.In 2018, Mrs H told SJP that she would be switching to a new adviser. SJP 
didnt give ongoing advice past this point but did charge for it.
Mrs H, represented by her new adviser, made a complaint. Her representative complained, 
after looking at the suitability letter, that this advice wasnt suitable. He explained that there 
was no need for the income, so the bond wouldnt have fallen outside of the estate. Mrs H 
says she was told the whole investment bond would fall outside of her estate for IHT 
purposes, but that this wasnt the case. Mrs Hs representative explained that the advice 
shouldve been to reduce her husbands pension withdrawals as this wouldve had a greater 
effect on their IHT liability. Mrs H also complained that no ongoing advice was received and 
that she shouldve been advised of the consequences of cancelling the bond withdrawals.
Whilst our Investigator was looking into this complaint, SJP accepted that it should refund 
the ongoing advice charges when it hadnt provided this service. It said it stopped providing 
advice when Mrs H told SJP she was going to use a new adviser. The offer compared what 
Mrs Hs bond would have been worth had those charges not been applied and repay the 
loss together with 8% simple interest from the date of withdrawal to the date of settlement. 
Our Investigator felt this was fair. SJP also offered Mrs H £125 compensation (as part of 
overall compensation offered to her and her husband) for an apology for its delay 
investigating this complaint.
Our Investigator didnt think the advice overall was unsuitable. He said that it did go towards 
Mrs Hs objective of mitigating her IHT liability. And he couldnt see that shed been told the 
whole bond would fall outside of the estate. The Investigator referred to the suitability letter 
which mentioned that the income not spent would fall back within the estate and that the 
investment growth would be outside the estate for the purposes of IHT.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. Her representative said 
that the advice shouldve been to reduce Mr Hs pension drawdown to zero as they didnt 
need the additional income. He said this wouldve mitigated their IHT liability more 
substantially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ongoing advice
I can see that SJP charged Mrs H for ongoing advice. This was part of the service that Mrs H 
had signed up for. But when Mrs H told SJP in April 2018 that she would be using a different 
adviser, SJP stopped providing this service. It follows that its fair for these charges to be 
refunded  as no ongoing advice was given past this point.
SJP confirmed that the ongoing advice charges to be refunded are:
£100.13 - 1 Feb 2018
£99.14 - 1 Feb 2019
£104.60  1 Feb 2020
£104.13  1 Feb 2021
It has offered to refund these charges by calculating what the investment bond wouldve 
been worth when Mrs H surrendered it had those charges not been applied. It would then 
give Mrs H the difference plus 8% simple interest from the date Mrs H surrendered her bond 
to the date of settlement.
I think this is fair and reasonable. It puts Mrs H in the position shed have been in had those 
charges not been applied. And, given SJP didnt provide the ongoing advice past a certain 
point, it is right that SJP doesnt charge for it.
Mis-sale of the investment bond
The main aspect of this complaint is that Mrs H was mis-sold the investment bond which was 
put into a Loan Trust. Her representative has explained that she, together with her husband, 
had sufficient income and so was unlikely to be able to spend the yearly income from this 
bond, which meant that it would always fall back within the estate. Mrs Hs representative 
has explained that had she been aware the full investment bond wouldnt fall outside of her 
estate for IHT purposes she wouldnt have taken it out. Mrs Hs representative also talked 
about other advice but that concerned her husbands pension specifically and has been dealt 
with separately.
Ive had to consider the purpose of the advice SJP gave and whether the advice was 
suitable for Mrs Hs objectives at the time. Having done so, I cant say the advice SJP gave 
was unsuitable for her circumstances and Ill explain why.
Mrs H, together with her husband, sought advice from SJP on this occasion because they 
didnt have anything in place to start mitigating their IHT liability. The suitability letter sent to 
them confirms this. So, Ive considered whether the advice SJP recommended addressed 
this need.
Mrs H was recommended to invest £20,000 into a Loan Trust. This effectively meant that 
any growth on the investment would fall outside of her estate for IHT purposes, and any 
withdrawals from the bond would also fall outside of her estate if spent. Effectively, the Trust 
meant she could potentially reduce her estate and therefore her IHT liability. It seems 
accepted that the investment bond was in line with Mrs Hs attitude to risk, so the advice to 
invest into the bond and setting up a Loan Trust wasnt unsuitable for her circumstances.
Mrs Hs representative has focused on the fact Mr and Mrs H had ample income already, 
and the advice shouldve been to reduce Mr Hs pension drawdown income to zero. I think 
its clear Mr and Mrs H, had sufficient income to meet their essential expenditure. Ive also 
seen that the majority of their income was for discretionary expenditure. So, I dont think 
there was an absolute need for additional income but the annual income was set to £800. Looking at Mrs Hs level of income overall, I dont think this made a large amount of 
difference and could be spent. I can also see reference to Mrs H wanting to ensure her 
investment produced an income throughout the suitability letter, so I dont think that made it 
unsuitable. The fact find and suitability letter suggests that Mrs H was comfortable investing 
£20,000 but wanted to retain control over that money. So, placing those funds into a Loan 
Trust would give Mrs H that control and access to the original capital but ensuring any 
growth falls outside of the estate.
As Mrs Hs husband has a separate complaint, Ive not considered the advice that their 
representative has suggested shouldve been given at the time as part of Mrs Hs complaint. 
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think taking out the investment bond and 
placing it in a Loan Trust was unsuitable for Mrs Hs objectives.
Ive also noted that Mrs H felt she was told the full amount of the investment bond would fall 
outside of her estate for IHT purposes. But the suitability letter says the following:
Any income received which is not spent will fall back within the Settlors Estate for 
Inheritance Tax purposes, likewise will any outstanding loan amount.
Ive also noted the letter gives a projection of how the IHT liability could be reduced and 
refers to that happening if the Loan Plan is held until February 2042. So, Ive not seen 
anything that says the whole investment falls outside of the estate immediately. I do 
understand that to withdraw the value of the bond using the annual withdrawal amounts 
would take 25 years, making Mrs H around 94 years old. But, the purpose of the advice was 
to go some way in mitigating their IHT liability and by placing the bond in the Loan Trust, this 
did that.
In summary, whilst I understand Mrs Hs representatives point that there were additional tax 
mitigating solutions available this was for Mr Hs circumstances specifically, and so I cant 
agree that this means this advice was unsuitable. Particularly given Mrs Hs recorded 
objectives at the time of retaining control of the capital and taking an income. So I wont be 
asking SJP to refund the exit fees. 
SJP offered £125 for the length of time it took to investigate Mrs Hs complaint. As complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, Ive not looked into this aspect. It is up to Mrs H to speak 
to SJP if she decides to accept this offer of compensation.
Putting things right
I agree that SJP should ensure Mrs H hasnt lost out for being charged for ongoing advice 
that she didnt receive. Its offer is fair and reasonable for this. St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc should now refund the ongoing advice charges (detailed above) by 
calculating what the investment bond wouldve been worth when Mrs H surrendered it had 
those charges not been applied. It should then give Mrs H the difference plus 8% simple 
interest from the date Mrs H surrendered her bond to the date of settlement.
If St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partially uphold this complaint. St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc must put things right in the way detailed above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman