DRN-2542834
The complaint
Miss C (through her representative) says that Imperial Cars of Swanwick Limited (Imperial 
Cars) mis-sold her an extended warranty on her vehicle. 
What happened
Miss C purchased an extended warranty from Imperial Cars alongside the purchase of her 
vehicle in a face to face sale. She subsequently had a problem with the turbo on her vehicle 
and it had to be replaced. However, when she submitted a claim, it was declined.
Miss C says she was told if there were any problems with the car, she would be fully 
protected, and she wouldnt have the worry of any unexpected bills as the "top level" 
warranty covered everything. However, now that the claim has been declined, she says this 
has turned out to be untrue and Miss C believes the salesman who sold the policy has 
committed fraud by misrepresentation and thinks the policy has been mis-sold to her. 
Imperial Cars investigated her complaint and said the policy hadnt been mis-sold. It said 
that everything was correctly signed and there was no evidence of a mis-sale, so it wouldnt 
be refunding any premium.
Miss C submitted a complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and 
said that based on the evidence available, Imperial Cars hadnt done anything wrong.
But Miss C doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it. Ill explain why.
Miss C believes the salesman misrepresented the cover available on the policy and lied to 
her. She says she doesnt recall signing anything apart from the auto signature. She, says 
the signatures shes seen on the paperwork dont match her signature, and the certificate 
she has doesnt even have her signature on it.  
Its not clear from the documentation provided whether this was an advised or a non-advised 
sale. An advised sale carries a higher level of responsibility on the seller. It means that 
Imperial Cars needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice, as well 
as providing Miss C with sufficient information in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
In the absence of anything to tell us otherwise I will deal with this as an advised sale.
As this was a face to face sale and theres no recording, its difficult to know exactly what 
was said between the sales advisor and Miss C. So, Ive considered the documents 
available to me, as well as both Miss Cs and Imperial Cars testimony about what 
happened.
Both parties have provided us with a copy of the sales documentation. Within this 
documentation there is a regulatory requirements section which I can see Miss C signed to 
say that additional products were provided - an extended warranty and paint protection 
cover. A box is ticked to show that the additional products were purchased and explained, 
and even though both signatures on this page are faint, I think its more likely than not that 
the signatures are that of Miss C and the salesman. Imperial Cars have explained that as 
this is a printed copy, sometimes that will affect the quality of the signature especially if the 
signatures were made using a tablet. And Im satisfied with this explanation.
There is also a second form, a validation form specifically listing the warranty product that 
was sold. The copy provided by Imperial Cars has two signatures on it, but the copy 
provided by Miss C only has the signature of the seller, and not her own signature. 
I can understand why Miss C has raised this as evidence in the context of the complaint 
shes made. But as evidence, Im satisfied that theres nothing sinister going on here. 
Looking at the complete paperwork surrounding the sale of the vehicle, alongside the 
additional insurances, the signatures are all quite consistent, and the fact that one page is 
missing a signature is not a reason to say the policy was mis-sold. 
Miss C has also argued that the signatures dont actually match her licence, and I think shes 
implying that they were forged. But its clear Miss C knew she had this policy, as she 
submitted a claim. So, I can only conclude that she agreed to buy this policy, and whether 
the signatures are an exact match or not doesnt change that. To me Miss C knew she had 
this policy and she tried to use it. 
The crux of the complaint is really what was said at the time of the sale. Miss C tells us she 
was told that everything is covered. Miss Cs representative when he called to complain said 
a sales manager told him a salesman will tell you the grass is blue if it gets a sale. He also 
says he was told that if the vehicle had been taken to them for the warranty work then the 
claim wouldve been accepted.
I dont disbelieve what Miss C or her representative has told us. But the issue is that this was 
a face to face sale and we really have no idea what was said on the day. Usually this type of 
policy will have limitations on what it will cover. And it would be very unusual for this type of 
policy to cover everything. So, I think its more likely than not that Miss C misunderstood 
what the salesman meant by fully protected and top level cover. This doesnt mean that 
every conceivable claim or fault is covered. It just means that its a very high level of cover. 
Based on the paperwork Ive seen, Miss C signed for the policy, so its clear she wanted it. 
And by submitting a claim its clear she knew she had it. The policy itself is suitable, as it 
provides cover for breakdown as defined in the policy terms and conditions. The terms and 
conditions themselves set out what the policy will and wont cover, nothing is hidden, and 
exclusions are set out clearly. When purchasing a policy  even in an advised sale, the 
consumer still has some responsibility to make sure they understand what they are covered 
for. And if Miss C was unsure of the cover, there is a 30-day cooling off period in the terms 
and conditions, which allowed her to cancel and claim a refund if she wasnt satisfied with 
what the warranty provided. As Miss C didnt do this, I can only assume she was satisfied 
with the product.
On balance, Im satisfied that Imperial Cars took reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of 
its advice and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, looking at this 
documentation as the only documented evidence available, I havent seen anything to show 
that the policy wasnt suitable for Miss C. It follows that I dont think Miss Cs policy was mis-
sold and Im not going to ask Imperial Cars to return the premium.In a telephone call after our investigators view, Miss Cs rep says he was told the claim 
wouldve been covered if Miss C had gone to Imperial Cars for the repair. The claim itself is 
not part of this complaint, and Ive no evidence about what caused the turbo failure nor what 
was required to repair it. So, I wont be making any further comment on this specific point 
that was raised by Miss Cs rep.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman