DRN-3632576
The complaint
Mrs G, the executor of the late Mrs Ss estate has raised a complaint that Partnership Life 
Assurance Company Limited (Partnership) has unfairly asked Mrs G to refund part of an 
overpayment that it made to Mrs Ss care provider after she died.
What happened
In May 2015, Mrs G took out an immediate care plan policy with Partnership in the name of 
Mrs S. Under the terms of the policy, an annual annuity of £28,440 was payable to Mrs Ss 
care provider in monthly amounts of £2,370 until the date of Mrs Ss death. 
Mrs S sadly died in early July 2019 but Partnership says it wasnt made aware of her death 
until August 2019. By this time, Partnership had made two monthly payments to the care 
provider since Mrs Ss death. 
After Partnership realised what had happened, it asked Mrs Ss care provider to refund the 
overpayments. Mrs Ss care provider refunded one months payment but told Partnership 
that the other monthly payment had been paid by mistake to Mrs Ss estate.
When Partnership asked Mrs G to refund the payment, she explained that due to the time 
that had passed, there wasnt any money left in the estate.
As Mrs G is unhappy that Partnership still wants her to refund the overpayment, she came to 
this service for help.
After considering her complaint, the investigator didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
didnt think it was unreasonable for Partnership to request the overpayment from Mrs Ss 
estate.
Mrs G disagrees with the investigators recommendation. She doesnt understand how 
Partnership can claim on Mrs Ss estate when it made the overpayment to the care provider. 
Mrs G points out that if the mistake had come to light sooner, it wouldve been possible to 
refund the overpayment out of money in the estate. Mrs G doesnt see why she should be 
penalised for Partnership and the care providers inefficiencies. 
Mrs G says that if she must repay the money, she will either need to take out a loan or pay 
the amount back by monthly instalments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to say that Im very sad to hear about Mrs Gs loss. I can appreciate that 
Partnerships request came as a shock to her after she thought that everything had been 
settled with Mrs Ss estate. However, Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why.
The policy was only payable for as long as Mrs S was alive, so its reasonable for 
Partnership to expect any overpayments to be refunded. And as far as I can see, Mrs G 
doesnt dispute the fact that the estate received money from the care provider after Mrs S 
died.
It appears from Partnerships records that after learning of Mrs Ss death in August 2019, it 
wrote to the care provider to ask for a refund of the two payments made since her death. 
Partnership wrote again to the care provider in October 2019 and January 2020 after it didnt 
get any response.
Later in 2020, Partnership involved a solicitor to help collect the overpayments. The first 
reply I can see from the care provider came in around September 2020. It seems this was 
when Partnership was made aware that one of the overpayments had been paid to the 
estate.
Im satisfied that Partnership acted reasonably in trying to claim the overpayments back from 
the care provider. When it became clear that one of the payments had been made to the 
estate, it was reasonable for Partnership to ask Mrs G, as executor, to refund the 
overpayment.
I can also see that Partnership wrote to Mrs G in September 2019 to tell her about the 
overpayment of £4,740. So, I cant find that Partnership didnt make Mrs G aware early on 
that it had made an overpayment to the care provider. And that therefore, Mrs G was put on 
notice there was a potential claim on the estate that might need to be budgeted for. 
I appreciate Mrs G thought that the money she received from the care provider represented 
the refund of a deposit and care fees paid for the rest of July 2019. But I cant find that this 
was due to a mistake on Partnerships part.
Some of the problems may have stemmed from a delay by the care provider in notifying 
Partnership of Mrs Ss death and from its payment to the estate. However, this service can 
only consider this complaint as it relates to Partnership.
Mrs G says that the assets have all been distributed and Ive no reason to doubt this. But I 
dont think this means that its unreasonable for Partnership to ask Mrs G, as the estates 
executor, to refund the overpayment. I would however expect Partnership to consider       
Mrs Gs financial position and fairly treat any reasonable repayment offer that she might 
make. I hope that this goes some way to reassuring Mrs G who is understandably worried 
about the financial impact on her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Gemma BowenOmbudsman