DRN-2748692
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund withdrawals he 
says he didnt make from his account.
What happened
Mr A disputes a series of cash withdrawals from his account between 5 April and 16 April 
2020. The total including some cash machine fees was £5,256.93. Mr A says he was at 
home during this period and not in the area where the withdrawals were made. He had his 
card and made some online payments. He reported what happened to the authorities but 
didnt feel he received any help.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that these payments were made 
using the chip on the card and that this couldnt be cloned. Mr A had told it that he hadnt 
written down the PIN or stored it with the card. It couldnt see how someone could have 
taken the card and replaced it without him noticing.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr A had made genuine 
payments on 6, 9, 14 and 16 April 2020 using his card details. He said that these werent 
stored with the online retailers and he had the card at this time. These payments came 
during the period when daily cash withdrawals had been made at a location a considerable 
distance from his home  seemingly either a four-hour drive or three-hour train journey 
away. The evidence was that the card was at this location as it couldnt have been cloned. 
So, it wasnt likely that a third party could have taken and replaced the card so that Mr A 
could have used it. That would have been very risky and almost impossible to accept as 
something that physically could have happened.
Mr A had explained that due to health issues he rarely left the house and didnt have visitors. 
Our investigator couldnt see how someone he knew could have had access to the card 
without him knowing. As Mr A had difficulty going out or travelling even for basic trips he 
thought that it was most likely he had given his card and details to someone else and 
allowed them to use it.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he had visitors to 
his house to carry out maintenance and some had come several times. His card was in the 
living room and he hadnt stayed in that room when they were there. He explained that he 
has had to change the locks on his home when these were tampered with. He thought it is 
possible someone has entered his home without him knowing. In addition, his medication 
and related mental health issues mean his memory isnt that good. He now cant remember 
if he wrote his PIN down or not. At times he has been able to input the card number without 
having the card. He found the position on his complaint deeply hurtful and this was affecting 
his health issues and he felt vulnerable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of what happened on Mr A. And that he felt that neither 
Halifax nor the authorities would help him. Ive listened to the calls hes had with this service 
and while I know how distressing the situation was he was able to put the details of his 
complaint forward and explain what he believed had happened. Hes now said that what hes 
thought at times mightnt be right given his memory issues and the impact of his medication. 
Ill explain how Ill address that below.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr A wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr A either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Halifax says?
Ive seen the audit logs regarding these payments. These show that the chip on the card 
was read and the correct PIN entered each time. I know Mr A thinks that the explanation 
here is that his card was cloned  probably the last time he used this in a cash machine on 
24 March 2020. But this service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that the chip on a card can 
be cloned for general use. And so, I dont accept that as the most likely explanation here. I 
need to think about whether Mr A consented to the payments.
Initially Mr A had been clear he had the card during this period and used it to make 
payments. Those online payments didnt require the actual card but the details including the 
three-digit security number. So, they arent conclusive in showing where the card was at the 
time. But the cash withdrawals do show that the actual card was some 200 miles from Mr As 
home every evening when it was used. Mr A is now less clear about when he did have the 
card except that he had it when he reported the fraud. In light of what hes said about his 
memory issues I dont place significant weight on this inconsistency but at the same time I 
treat his recollections of what he says happened with caution.
Those disputed withdrawals are consistent with someone trying to take as much money as 
quickly as possible from the account. The maximum daily withdrawal limit was accessed. 
Balance enquiries were made and there was a significant amount of money in the account. 
Attempts at withdrawals continued to the point on 16 April 2020 when they were flagged as 
possibly suspicious. And Mr A was sent a text by Halifax which he says was the first time he 
found out what had happened.
Like our investigator I think it highly unlikely someone could have taken and then replaced 
Mr As card several times during the period. Mr A has explained he had people in his house 
carrying out work  so its possible one of them could have taken his card and seen the PIN 
if as Mr A now says it might have been written down. And even had a key to his property. 
But it would have been very risky to replace the card and take it without Mr A noticing. And 
to anticipate just when he might want to have access to the card himself. For example, Mr A 
says he had the card in his possession on 16 April 2020 when he received the text message 
from Halifax. I dont see how he could be mistaken about that because it is the whole basis 
for him thinking his card was cloned. The need for him to check his card then isnt something 
I can see a fraudster could have anticipated and then somehow returned the card to him, travelling nearly 200 miles. Or why a fraudster who could no longer withdraw money after 
several failed attempts would even want to do this. 
Mr A has described his personal circumstances and that after 24 March 2020 he didnt go 
out much during the coronavirus related restrictions and stayed local. Hes explained that he 
cant drive and the difficulty of going out even for basic trips. He bought items during this 
period with cash and had a stock at home. He didnt have visits from family or friends. So, I 
dont see that someone known to him could have taken his card without him knowing.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Im afraid that the most likely explanation is that Mr A consented to these withdrawals and so 
authorised them. And that could include him allowing someone else to have his card and 
PIN to make them. I appreciate how disappointed he will be by my conclusions here 
especially given the amount of money at stake for him. But I dont have a reasonable basis 
to require Halifax to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman