DRN-3835434
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply overdraft charges to his business account when he was vulnerable, suffering from ill 
health and financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr S held a business account with Barclays with an overdraft facility and limit of £10,000. In 
late 2019 Mr S suffered from a stroke and has been suffering from ill health ever since. 
Around this time the business account received the last significant credit into it and was 
overdrawn by £500.
Ms S, on Mr Ss behalf, got in touch with Barclays regarding Mr Ss health and business 
account in December 2020. Ms S was passed around to different departments, failed to 
receive a call back and was given mis-information. Ms S was unhappy with the service she 
received and complained to Barclays about this and the charges applied to Mr Ss business 
account when he was suffering from ill health. At this point the account was around £2,000 
overdrawn from a combination of accumulated overdraft fees applied and direct debits 
continuing to go out of the account.
Barclays agreed the service Ms S received wasnt as good as it shouldve been and credited 
Mr Ss business account with £100 by way of apology. Regarding the charges and the 
business account Barclays offered to remove the overdraft and the account would fall with its 
financial assistance team and then a payment plan could be set up to pay back any debit 
balance.  
This offer wasnt accepted as Ms S wanted to keep the business account open so she could 
assist Mr S with his business affairs. This being the case and as the account was well within 
its overdraft limit Barclays say all fees had been applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and no error had been made on its behalf. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to refund fees incurred since Mr S became ill in late 2019 amounting to 
£96. 
Ms S was dis-satisfied with this and brought a complaint to this service on Mr Ss behalf. Ms 
S wants all charges applied to the business account refunded from September 2019, Mr Ss 
credit score adjusted and a grace period of nine months to enable Ms S to assist Mr S in 
managing his financial affairs going forward. 
The account was closed with a debit balance of £3,3705.77 on 26 August 2022. Barclays 
have advised although there is currently no intention to pursue the outstanding debt it may 
do so at any point as the debt is valid.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss concerns and thought that in relation to the 
charges that Barclays had correctly applied charges to Mr Ss business account in-line with 
the account terms and conditions. And thought that Barclays had provided a fair resolution to 
the complaint. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that part of Mr Ss complaint is about the proportionality of the charges applied to 
his business account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Barclays various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ss account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr S was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr S fairly and 
reasonably. And overall I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr S unfairly or unreasonably. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ss statements although I can see that Mr S was using 
the overdraft and the last significant credit to the account was in November 2019, the 
account was overdrawn at the lower end of its limit (£1,000 of a £10,000 overdraft) which I 
dont think in itself is a clear sign of financial difficulty. 
When Ms S did make Barclays aware of Mr Ss financial hardship and health problems in 
December 2020 Barclays as a gesture of goodwill refunded around a years worth of fees 
and offered to remove the overdraft and set up a payment plan  which is in line with what 
Id expect it to do given the circumstances.  But Mr S didnt accept the offer choosing instead 
to keep the account open. 
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of the request to keep 
the account open rather than seek help from Barclays financial assistance team and repay 
the debt. 
 
So overall I dont think that Barclays treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when it was 
contacted about Mr Ss health and financial hardship. I say this because Barclays provided 
different options which I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances and this means 
that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope he understands the 
reasons for my decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman