DRN-3682463
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Quay Mortgage Services Ltd (QMS), an appointed 
representative of HL Partnership Limited, shouldnt have referred them to a different broker 
without their consent and should have advised them on a regulated residential mortgage 
instead.
What happened
In January 2015, Mr and Mrs T approached a mortgage broker, QMS, for a residential 
mortgage. They had inherited a property a few years earlier that needed refurbishment and 
wanted to fund this before moving into the property. Mr and Mrs T paid an initial fee of £200 
to QMS but were then referred to another company, who Ill refer to as X, who arranged a 
bridging loan for them. 
Mr and Mrs T say that this was an unregulated loan and that it was unsuitable for their 
circumstances. Unfortunately, they couldnt repay it and ultimately had to sell the house. 
Mr and Mrs T have explained the serious impact this has had on their finances and health - 
they feel it all stems from QMSs actions.
HL Partnership say QMS wasnt able to secure finance for Mr and Mrs T because the 
property was uninhabitable and theres a reference to agricultural restrictions on the 
property. So QMS referred Mr and Mrs T to X as it was a commercial broker and could 
access specialist lenders. HL Partnership doesnt think its responsible for any of the advice 
provided by X or Mr and Mrs Ts decision to go ahead with the bridging loan.
When Mr and Mrs T complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept these findings. They said they had more questions than answers 
following the information our investigator was able to share about the evidence theyd seen 
and that they didnt think QMS had acted appropriately. 
So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
For clarity, whilst referring Mr and Mrs T to another broker isnt a regulated activity in and of 
itself, Im considering this matter as its ancillary to the advice they initially sought from QMS 
to arrange a residential mortgage for them.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs T that if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
The underlying issue here is that Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the advice they received 
from X to take out an unregulated loan. They are seeking to hold QMS responsible for this 
because QMS referred them to X and because they think the problems theyve experienced 
could have been avoided if QMS had arranged an appropriate regulated product for them.
Whilst I do empathise with their situation, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
QMS responsible for this. QMS has explained that it couldnt source lending for 
Mr and Mrs T and so it referred them to a broker that potentially could. I dont think that was 
an unreasonable thing for QMS to have done. And it would have been for X to ensure any 
advice they gave was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, not QMS. I note that moving forward with 
the product arranged by X wasnt an automatic step following the referral QMS made, it was 
a distinct decision made by Mr and Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T have raised concerns about the relationship between QMS and X, and the 
specific individuals they dealt with. I dont have the details of their arrangement, but I dont 
think thats material here. QMS says it sometimes makes referrals to X where appropriate 
and I find QMS explanation for the referral reasonable in the circumstances. I havent seen 
any evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ts concerns that there were any improper or fraudulent 
reasons behind the referral.
I can see QMS provided mortgage illustrations to Mr and Mrs T so Im satisfied QMS did 
looked into sourcing Mr and Mrs T a mortgage initially (which is why they paid an initial fee) 
and with a view to repaying any bridging loan they may need. But these were either 
unsuccessful or not progressed. This is as far as the matter goes in terms of what QMS is 
responsible for, and Im satisfied that QMS has explained why it couldnt source a standard 
residential mortgage in this case (the state of the property and restriction on it, and Mr and 
Mrs Ts later credit issues). 
In any event, I dont think the evidence supports that Mr and Mrs T didnt know about the 
referral; X would have been listed on some of the documentation at the time, Mr and Mrs T 
had direct dealings with X, and Mr and Mrs Ts emails to QMS in December 2019 
demonstrate an understanding of how these events unfolded. 
So, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the product they took out on the 
advice of X, I dont think thats because of anything QMS did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022. 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman