DRN-1194629
 
The complaint
Miss M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
 What happened
Miss M took out an unsecured personal loan over the phone with Nationwide in 2003 and 
bought a PPI policy at the same time. 
The cost of the PPI got added onto Miss Ms loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single 
premium policy. It covered Miss Ns loan payments for up to 12 months if she lost her job 
and for up to two years if she was off work sick.
Miss M says she wasnt aware of any PPI and nothing was explained to her. 
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ms complaint didnt uphold it. She disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Miss M she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. I think its likely Nationwide did this. Although theres no call recording from 
the time, Ive seen a call script Nationwide says its representative wouldve followed during 
the call. The script instructs the representative to give quotes for the loan with and without 
PPI. So I think its likely Miss M wouldve been aware the PPI was optional. I can also see 
the loan agreement Miss M signed after the call describes the PPI as optional and shows the 
separate costs for it.
Nationwide and Miss M agree it didnt recommend the PPI to her. So Nationwide didnt have 
to check if it was right for her. But Nationwide did have to make sure Miss M had enough 
information to make that decision herself in an informed way. 
I dont know how the PPI costs were described in the call. But I can see the cost of the policy 
was shown on the loan agreement Miss M signed before the loan was advanced  including 
the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I 
think Miss M wouldve understood how much the PPI would cost if she kept the policy for the 
full loan term. Although her representatives say it was a priority for Miss M to keep her costs 
down, Ive seen no evidence from the time to suggest she couldnt afford it.
Miss M says shed have got very good sick pay from her work and couldve relied on help 
from her family if things got difficult. But if Miss M made a successful sickness claim, the PPI wouldve paid her monthly loan repayments until she returned to work or, if sooner, until the 
loan was repaid. And it wouldve paid the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim if shed lost her job. And while Im sure Miss Ms family wouldve helped if it could, this 
kind of help cant always be guaranteed and isnt the same as having an insurance policy to 
fall back on.
Not all PPI policies gave a proportionate refund of the PPI premium if a loan was settled 
early and a policy cancelled. But the policy Miss M bought did, meaning shed have got a 
proportionate refund of her premium if she repaid the loan and cancelled the policy early. So 
I dont think more information about the policys cancellation terms wouldve made a 
difference to her decision to go ahead with it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But, from 
what Miss M says of her circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got. I think its 
unlikely she wouldve been affected by any of these things.
Ive looked at all the other points Miss M and her representatives have made but they dont 
change my conclusions in this case. All in all, I dont think Miss M lost out because of 
anything Nationwide did wrong and so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
 My final decision
For the reasons I've given I don't uphold Miss M's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman