DRN-3217795
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim he made under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has explained that he took out a single trip travel insurance on 21 February 2020. This 
was to cover him for a skiing holiday he was due to go on, for a week, from 15 March 2020 
until 22 March 2020.
Unfortunately, on 14 March 2020, the night before Mr M was due to fly out to his destination, 
he was informed that the accommodation he was due to stay in abroad, was to be closed. 
This was because from 15 March 2020, all ski resorts in the country Mr M was travelling to, 
were to shut. With this in mind, Mr M didnt get on the outbound flight. And he then made a 
claim under his travel insurance policy for the cost he losses he had suffered, by being 
unable to go on holiday.
This was the cost of the accommodation Mr M was due to stay in, which he paid £1,000 for. 
As well as the cost of the outbound flight, which he explained the airline operator wouldnt 
refund. 
Great Lakes considered Mr Ms claim but declined it. It said the policy Mr M had purchased 
didnt cover him in this instance. It noted that the policy did provide cover where Mr Ms 
holiday had to be cancelled because the UKs Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) had 
advised against all, or all but essential travel. But it said that at the point Mr Ms holiday was 
cancelled, there was no such advice in place. And so, it didnt offer any settlement in relation 
to the matter.
Mr M didnt feel this was fair. He said that the people he was due to travel with had made 
claims on their insurance policies  and their claims had been settled. And, he felt Great 
Lakes were acting unreasonably, given that if he had travelled abroad, he wouldnt have had 
anywhere to say, and would have needed to come straight back home again, and made a 
curtailment claim. 
Mr M said he also felt that Great Lakes were trying to rely on a loophole  because two days 
after his holiday was due to start, the FCO then advised that all but essential travel should 
not go ahead. 
Because Mr M was unhappy with Great Lakes response, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy didnt provide him with cover in the particular 
circumstances he found himself in. And so, he didnt think it was fair to ask Great Lakes to 
accept the claim when the cover wasnt in place for it. 
Mr M didnt agree. He highlighted that it would have been a bad idea for him to continue to 
travel abroad, when his pre-booked accommodation would have been closed. And he felt 
that Great Lakes were being unreasonable by applying the terms of his policy so narrowly, 
when a couple of days later the FCO did publish advice not to travel. And he didnt think 
Great Lakes were acting in the spirit of fairness, given the cancellation was due to the global 
coronavirus pandemic.
As Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion, this complaint has been referred to me 
to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. I do understand this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr M. But Ive explained my reasoning below. And, as above Ill 
consider any further submissions provided by both parties, before the date noted at the top 
of this decision.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr M feels Great Lakes hasnt acted in line with this. 
So, Ive considered his concerns. And based on what Ive seen I dont think Great Lakes has 
done anything wrong in declining Mr Ms claim.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonably is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. And Im aware it provides cover for the 
need to cancel a holiday. But as is common with insurance policies of this nature, the holiday 
needs to be cancelled as a result of one of the reasons detailed within the policy booklet. 
The list of reasons is an exhaustive one. And so, if the trip was cancelled, but not due to one 
of the reasons listed, the policy doesnt cover it, and the claim wont be settled.
The reasons in the policy include issues such as the death of illness or the policyholder, a 
travelling companion, relative or colleague, attendance of jury service and involuntary 
redundancy of particular individuals. None of which apply in Mr Ms case.
The only circumstance of possible relevance in Mr Ms policy is where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) have advised against all but essential travel. So, Ive thought 
about whether this applies in Mr Ms circumstances. And, whilst I do sympathise with Mr Ms 
situation, Im satisfied this doesnt apply. 
I say this because The FCO didnt issue advise against all but essential travel until 17 March 
2020, two days after Mr M was due to depart on holiday. As this advice wasnt in place on 
the day Mr M was due to go on his trip, it wasnt as a result of this that Mr M didnt travel. 
Mr M has highlighted that the government in Mr Ms intended destination closed all non-
essential public places from 14 March 2020, due to Coronavirus. And he feels Great Lakes 
are relying on a loophole, given the FCO advice came in only two days after his holiday was 
due to start. I do appreciate Mr Ms points here. But I dont think this changes that the policy 
is clear in noting it wont cover the claim, at the point in time Mr M needed to claim. In any event, there is a general exclusion in the policy which Im satisfied means its 
reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim in this instance. The general exclusion is as 
follows;
 We will not cover any loss, damage, cost or expense directly or indirectly caused by;
()
Epidemic
Any epidemic or pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation.
Given the above, Im aware that if Mr Ms loss  so the costs he is claiming for  are as a 
result of an epidemic, then the claim isnt covered under the policy, and so no settlement is 
due under the policy.
The World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on the 11 March 2020. 
And Mr Ms was due to depart on his trip on 15 March 2020  after the pandemic had been 
declared. Mr M didnt depart for his trip, because of issues surrounding the pandemic. His 
intended destination closed all non-essential public places, including holiday resorts because 
of Covid-19, on 14 March 2020. So, when Mr M didnt go on holiday, and therefore suffered 
a loss, it was due to the impact of restrictions in relation to Coronavirus. As thats something 
excluded by the policy, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted reasonably in declining to settle 
Mr Ms claim.
Great Lakes responded to my provisional decision and noted it didnt have anything further 
to add. Mr M let me know he was disappointed with the outcome of the provisional decision. 
In summary Mr M said he didnt have anything further to add, other than that he was aware 
of other travellers and family members having their claims paid  largely with the same 
standard cancellation cover, and identical terms and exclusions.
Mr M noted that it seemed some insurers were willing to go above and beyond, and he 
questioned whether bodies such as the Association of British Insurers (ABI) had noted it 
would be unfair not to do so, in light of the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional 
decision noted above. And so, my final decision does remain the same as that of my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Mr M has raised that he knows of other people that have had claims paid out, with the same 
terms and conditions in their policy. And he has asked for my comments on this. I have 
taken on board what Mr M has said here. But I can only look at the particular circumstances 
of this case, and whether the insurer has acted fairly here or not. And in this instance, I dont 
think Great Lakes has acted unfairly  given that it has applied the terms of the policy that 
both parties agreed to when the policy was purchased.
Mr M has questioned whether the ABI has told insurers it would be unfair to decline claims in 
his circumstances. But I havent seen any evidence that is the case. And, as above, Great 
Lakes has acted in line with the cover purchased, which excludes loss directly or indirectly 
caused by epidemic or pandemic. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong.My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to do anything differently in relation to Mr Ms claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman