DRN-3325551
The complaint
Mr W complains that he cancelled his policy within the 14-day cooling off period but 1 
Answer Insurance Services Ltd (1 Answer) didnt action it resulting in him owing money for 
time on cover that he doesnt believe is fair.
 
Mr W is represented on this complaint by his father who for the purposes of this decision I 
will refer to as G.
 
1 Answer is an insurance broker, Mr Ws policy is underwritten by an insurer that for the 
purposes of this decision I will refer to as E.
What happened
Mr W had an insurance policy which renewed on 28 June 2020 through 1 Answer. Mr W had 
agreed to pay for the policy monthly and a finance agreement was set up to facilitate this 
with monthly payments of £301.12, which were paid by Direct Debit from Gs account.
 
A condition of the policy was that Mr W would provide a My License Check' code to 1 
Answer, within 28 days, so it could verify his driving licence details in order to complete the 
validation process. 1 Answer wrote to Mr W weekly to remind him, in line with its process.
 
G says his son, Mr W, was in hospital and so he couldnt provide the license check details, 
there were numerous calls between G and 1 Answer from 21 July 2020 until 6 November 
2020 when the policy was eventually cancelled. E calculated the premium adjustment based 
on the time on cover and this generated a refund of £208.96.
At the same time G asked his bank to claim back three months worth of Direct Debits this 
meant that instead of Mr W being owed £208.96 he now owed £694.10.
G complained on Mr Ws behalf saying he cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period and 
1 Answer didnt action this so no money should be due. In the circumstances, 1 Answer 
asked E if it would be willing to back date the cancellation to 21 July 2020, when G first told it 
Mr W was in hospital, but it wasnt. 1 Answer waived its own cancellation fee of £50, as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with this response G brought Mr Ws complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint was one that should be upheld, in summary she said:
Based on everything shed seen 1 Answer had done all it could to assist G on behalf of Mr W 
given the circumstances. And it had given the option to downgrade the policy cover in July 
2020, but this offer wasnt taken up by G, who instead asked for an extension to provide the 
documentation. As E is responsible for setting the premiums and calculating the refund, Mr 
W would need to take it up with E if he felt the cancellation should be backdated or the 
refund had been incorrectly calculated. 
G on behalf of Mr W disagreed with the investigators findings and so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell G and Mr W that I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
E, as the underwriter, is the business responsible for setting the premium and calculating the 
refund amount. E is also responsible for agreeing any downgrade in cover or backdating any 
cancellation. So, I havent considered these points against 1 Answer and am only 
considering if 1 Answer acted on Gs request to instruct E to cancel the policy in a timely 
manner. 
As mentioned above Mr Ws policy began on 28 June 2020, the 14-day cooling off period 
began on the same day and ended on 12 July 2020.
G first contacted 1 Answer on 21 July 2020 to let it know unfortunately, Mr W had become ill 
and was in hospital. G asked if it was possible for the insurance policy to be downgraded. 1 
Answer referred this request onto E as, as the underwriter, it would need to make the 
decision. Based on this Im satisfied that G knew the policy wasnt cancelled at this point and 
as this was after 12 July 2020, it follows I dont agree that he asked for the policy to be 
cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period.
For completeness though, Ive gone on to consider if 1 Answer ought reasonably to have 
asked E to cancel the policy any earlier than it did, and I cant fairly say it should have. 
I say this because G called 1 Answer again on 21 August 2020, as he hadnt heard back 
from them since 21 July 2020. Ive listened to this call. In the call he told 1 Answer the van 
had been declared as SORN and was now being stored at his lock-up as Mr W was still in 
hospital. He said that he was being left with no choice but to cancel as he wasnt getting any 
answers from E and was wasting money continuing with the insurance as it was. He also 
said he was in no position to provide the verification details 1 Answer was looking for as he 
wasnt allowed to visit his son in hospital due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
1 Answer agreed to speak to E to see if it would agree to the downgrade or cancellation of 
the policy without Mr Ws consent. It promised it would call G back to let him know the 
outcome.
It called him back on 24 August 2020 and told him he could reduce the cover to Laid up Fire 
and Theft if he wanted to. G was busy and asked 1 Answer to email him the details, which it 
did the same afternoon. The email confirmed that the figures quoted within it were only valid 
for that day. 
G called them back later the same afternoon and said he no longer wanted to reduce the 
cover but would like an extension for sending in the documents. 1 Answer confirmed with E it 
was happy to keep cover in place and put a slow chase in place for the documents.
G next called 1 Answer on 17 September 2020 to say Mr W was still in hospital and the 
email chasers for the documents were making them very anxious. 1 Answer agreed to not 
make contact for another three weeks.1 answer sent two more chasers on 8 and 15 October 2020 which was in line with what it 
had agreed. G called 1 Answer on 19 October and at this point it was agreed that going 
forward contact would be direct with G.
On 6 November 2020 G spoke with 1 Answer again and advised at that point that he would 
like them to go ahead and cancel the policy. 1 Answer contacted E to ask for this to be done 
and the policy was cancelled on 9 November 2020.
Based on the above, Im satisfied 1 Answer acted on Gs instructions to cancel Mr Ws policy 
when he asked it to and didnt cause any delays when dealing with his request. And it gave 
the correct information to E, for it to calculate the time on cover cost for the policy. So, I cant 
fairly ask it to do anything more here.
I know both Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with 1 Answer can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman