DRN-3821866
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SD) declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2020 Ms O purchase a mattress from a supplier for £449 and entered into a finance 
agreement with SD. The mattress came with a 10 year manufacturers guarantee.
In August 2022 Ms O contacted SD to advise that the mattress had become faulty.
SD arranged an inspection to determine whether there was a manufacturers defect. SD says 
that it advised Ms O that if no manufacturing faults were found, the charge for the 
upholsterers report would be added to her account.
The mattress was inspected in September 2022 and the upholsterers report concluded that 
there were no manufacturers defects and that the sinking of the mattress was due to normal 
wear and tear which wasnt covered by the manufacturers guarantee.
Because no manufacturers defect was found, SD applied a charge for the report to Ms Os 
account.
Ms O remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that because the inspection report 
showed that the fault was due to wear and tear, there was no breach of contract and 
therefore SD wasnt responsible under the relevant legislation.
Ms O didnt agree. She didnt think that a mattress with a 10 year guarantee should become 
faulty after only 2 years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Ms Os complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that SDs response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
Ms O hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation. Shes complained about the quality 
of the mattress. The relevant law says the goods must be of satisfactory quality. The quality 
of goods includes their general state and condition, as well as other things like fitness for 
purpose, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Ms O says that the mattress is sinking and uneven. Ive reviewed the inspection report. This 
states that there is very slight dipping and that this is consistent with general wear and tear.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that theres a manufacturing fault with the mattress 
or that the mattress isnt of satisfactory quality. And although Ms O has said that the 
manufacturer has told her that a foam mattress shouldnt sink, theres no evidence that the 
manufacturer has accepted liability or agreed that the mattress isnt of satisfactory quality. In 
the absence of any other evidence that the mattress isnt of satisfactory quality, Im unable to 
say that SD has acted unfairly in rejecting the section 75 claim.
I appreciate that Ms O wants to rely on the guarantee, However, the guarantee doesnt cover 
normal wear and tear. Given the conclusions in the inspection report, I dont think the issue 
with the mattress would be covered by the guarantee.
I understand that the mattress hasnt lived up to Ms Os expectations. And Im sorry to hear 
about her health issues. However, based on the available information, Im unable to say that 
theres been a breach of contract here. So, Im unable to say that SD responded unfairly to 
the claim under section 75.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman