DRN-3934186
The complaint
Mr H complains about reports Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, who Ill call Shop 
Direct, have made to his credit file. Hes also upset about their actions when he told them 
he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The 2019 complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months from the date he or she receives the 
business final response letter to refer their complaint to us. After six months has elapsed 
this Service needs consent from the business to consider a complaint or it cant do so unless 
there are exceptional circumstances.
Here Shop Direct has not been willing to give its consent because they say that 
Mr H took too long, and I agree. He received his final response from them on 19 December 
2019 and therefore had until June 2020 to refer his complaint to us. Unfortunately, he didnt 
contact this Service until May 2022 and his complaint has therefore been referred out of 
time. 
Mr H says there were exceptional circumstances that prevented him understanding he had 
reason to complain until he received information from the business under a subject access 
request. He infers that the call recordings would have shown he had advised the business of 
his financial difficulty. I think it would have been clear to Mr H when he received the FRL if 
there was information in the call recordings that the business hadnt referred to or was 
inaccurate. After all, Mr H had had those calls and I think he would have been likely to know 
what he said. I think he therefore had all of the information he needed to escalate his 
complaint to this Service in December 2019, and I dont think he did within the requisite 
timescales. 
So, the rules dont allow us to look at his complaint as it was made out of time.
Its important however, that the final response also follows the rules set by the FCA. To be a 
valid final response the business needed to ensure it:
explained its decision;
explained Mr Hs right to refer his complaint to this Service;
provided our website address;
explained that Mr H would need to refer his complaint within six months;
explained that if he referred the complaint outside of that period they would have to 
give consent for us to make a decision on it.
Ive reviewed the final response that Shop Direct provided and its clear they met all of these 
conditions and that their response conformed to requirements. They are therefore entitled to 
refuse to give permission for us to review the complaint points they considered in their final 
response of December 2019.
The 2022 complaint
Mr H says the business reported his account performance incorrectly to the credit reference 
agencies. The business have explained that they reported four missed payments for 
September to December 2019, inclusive. Having reviewed the account performance I think 
that was an accurate reflection. Shop Direct also reported Mr Hs position on his account in 
December 2019 as a Q and Im persuaded that was correct as well as it signified theyd put 
the account on hold to allow Mr H to consult with a debt charity.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, this Service doesnt have the power to consider some of 
this complaint and I dont uphold the rest of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman