DRN-3427111
The complaint
Miss P complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave her a 
credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 30 January 2018, Miss P applied for a credit card account with Capital One. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £200. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Miss P complained to Capital One to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss P didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Ps complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. Its possible that Capital 
One failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss P with credit. But even if thats 
true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Capital One to think the initial credit 
limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Miss P told Capital One at the point of sale that whilst she was working 
and had a good income from her employment. The initial credit limit was modest and the 
maximum monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest. Capital One told 
us their credit check showed a modest amount of other debt and no defaults or CCJs. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss P to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Capital One to think that the modest 
credit it provided Miss P was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss 
P was managing her account or what Capital One could see of her management of other 
credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss P will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss P to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman