DRN-1785584
The complaint
Mr C complains that the loan he had from George Banco Limited was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr C took out a guarantor loan with George Banco on 22 December 2017. He borrowed 
£5,000 and was due to repay it with 60 instalments of £188.03.
Mr C says that George Banco did not address how the money would be used or whether the 
repayments were affordable after consolidating existing debts. He says his income and 
expenditure was never discussed and the loan was approved within four minutes. Mr C adds 
that he believes there was evidence that his mental health was affected at the time and that 
subsequently George Banco has not made reasonable adjustments following the disclosure 
of his condition. Mr C also says that hes received poor customer service from the 
Collections Department and that money was taken from his guarantor even though hed 
responded to emails.
George Banco says it asked Mr C for information about his circumstances and confirmed the 
purpose of the loan was debt consolidation. It says it also checked Mr Cs credit file and 
found the repayments to be affordable. George Banco acknowledged Mr Cs vulnerabilities 
and confirmed the account was clearly marked as such. It says it responds to emails in date 
order and that a payment was taken from the guarantors account because the payment date 
couldnt be changed as it hadnt received a reply with the requested debit card information.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She did not consider George 
Bancos checks went far enough when assessing the loan and that better checks would 
have shown the lending was irresponsible. She recommended that George Banco should 
refund any payments Mr C made above the principal (plus 8% statutory interest) or agree a 
suitable repayment plan for any remaining principal balance once all payments had been 
applied to it. It should also ensure that any associated negative information would be 
removed from Mr Cs credit file.
George Banco responded to say, in summary, that the issue of affordability had been 
addressed in its final response and that it was satisfied it made appropriate checks. It added 
that Mr C said the loan was to improve his finances and credit situation and therefore it 
disagreed that it was increasing his indebtedness or lending irresponsibly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when George Banco lent to Mr C. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that George Banco needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case Ive considered the following:
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs application to satisfy itself that hed be able to sustainably repay the loan? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did George Banco make a fair lending decision?
Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I have listened to Mr Cs initial call with George Banco and Ive seen evidence to show 
George Banco asked about Mr Cs financial circumstances and checked his credit file, but 
Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because:
The call with Mr C showed George Banco was aware that Mr Cs credit file showed 
defaults and a very recent County Court Judgment (CCJ);
Mr C explained that the loan was for debt consolidation as hed got into financial trouble 
due to a previous difficult relationship;
George Bancos affordability checks were based upon Mr Cs declared income and 
expenditure figures;
The loan repayments were more than 10% of Mr Cs income, for five years, so further 
checks would have been proportionate even if the credit file showed nothing of concern.
For the above reasons, I consider George Bancos checks should have included a full review 
of Mr Cs financial circumstances, including verification of his income and expenditure.
That said, I consider George Banco already had enough information from Mr Cs credit file to 
indicate further lending would be irresponsible:
At least 7 accounts were in default;
Mr C already had credit of over £17,000
Nevertheless, Ive had a look at Mr Cs bank statements to see what they showed:
Mr Cs monthly income was lower than the figure hed declared;
Monthly repayments on loans and credit cards totalled almost £800;
He appeared to be making a regular payment of around £350 to his guarantor;
Mr C was already in a debt management plan;
There were gambling transactions of several hundred pounds in a month.
I also acknowledge that Mr C has mental health issues, although I can see he said to 
George Banco that it could not have been aware of this at the point of the lending decision.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, Im satisfied George Banco was 
irresponsible to lend to Mr C. I say that because he wasnt likely to be able to meet his 
repayments sustainably given his level of regular outgoings, notwithstanding that the loan 
was for debt consolidation. And, given his level of existing debt and how he was managing it, 
it doesnt seem to me that the loan would help consolidate his debt but rather increase and 
prolong his levels of indebtedness.
With regard to Mr Cs further complaint about the customer service he received from George 
Banco, I have reviewed the customer contact notes provided. I cant conclude that George 
Banco acted unreasonably when responding to Mr Cs financial difficulties, but I would encourage Mr C to contact George Banco to discuss a mutually agreeable repayment plan 
going forwards.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. George Banco Limited should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then George Banco should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr C;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan, 
up to this point.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman