DRN-1949013
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Swinton Group Limited (Swinton) mis sold her a home insurance policy 
that wasnt suitable for her needs.
What happened
Mrs B is the freeholder of a house that has been converted into two flats. She resides in the 
bottom flat and the top flat was rented. For ease, I shall refer to the bottom flat as flat A and 
the top as flat B. In 2010 Mrs B took out the policy with the intention that the whole property 
would be insured. Swinton told Mrs B that it wasnt possible to insure both properties under 
one policy but it could arrange insurance for each flat separately. 
Whilst the two individual flats were insured, the building itself Mrs B found out wasnt 
covered. Mrs B said that she discovered this when she discussed her renewal with Swinton. 
Mrs B tried to arrange cover for the entire building but was told by Swinton that there had 
been a subsidence claim and so this wouldnt be possible. But this was incorrect information. 
Mrs B was ultimately given a price for the insurance of the building. But she felt it was too 
expensive and that part of the premium covered flat B (which Mrs B wasnt responsible for 
insuring). Mrs B said that she spent a lot of time contacting Swinton to try and resolve the 
issue but was still unsatisfied. 
So she raised a complaint seeking a refund of all the premiums she had paid over the last 10 
years, as she felt that she hadnt been correctly insured. She also sought legal advice 
because of this. 
In its final response, Swinton accepted that errors had been made. It also said that the 
distress Mrs B experienced as a result of finding out that her property wasnt correctly 
insured wasnt acceptable. So it upheld her complaint about the way that the policy had been 
handled by Swinton. It also said that had Mrs B made a claim, her insurers or Swinton would 
have considered her claim and would have provided cover, so that she wouldnt have been 
financially worse off, due to the errors. 
Swinton offered £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused which it sent to Mrs 
B. It also agreed to settle Mrs Bs solicitors fees.  Mrs B wasnt satisfied with the outcome 
and referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that there wasnt any financial loss as a result of the errors. She felt that Mrs B 
wouldve had the benefit of the policy had anything happened. And finally, that the £100 
compensation paid was reasonable, so there was nothing further she could ask Swinton to 
do to resolve the complaint.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator. She said that the £100 compensation wasnt 
enough, as it didnt take into consideration the emotional and mental distress shed been 
caused. As well as the constant telephone calls that she had to make and instructing a 
solicitor. So, Mrs B asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mrs B, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have to assess whether Swinton treated Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably. In doing so I have 
considered both parties comments, the issues regarding the mis-selling of the insurance, as 
well as the level of compensation paid. 
Swinton accepted that errors that had been made in the selling of the insurance. It accepted 
that Mrs B was assured that the building itself was insured from 2010 onwards. Even though 
this hadnt been the case and despite Mrs B telling Swinton each year about the 
circumstances of the property. 
It also accepted that in 2017, when a new policy was arranged by Swinton, it had 
erroneously indicated that the building was covered. This error continued in 2018, with 
another new policy and insurer that Swinton had arranged. It wasnt until 2019, when Mrs B 
contacted Swinton to discuss the renewal, that the error was discovered. I must ask the 
question of whether Swinton acted reasonably when it discovered the error and I think that it 
did, and Ill explain why.  
Mrs B has said that she was extremely concerned to find out that the property wasnt 
insured, despite having told Swinton on more than one occasion what type of insurance 
cover she sought. She also questioned whether if she had made a claim it would be 
covered. I can understand why this would be a worry for Mrs B, but my role is to look at what 
actually happened as a result of the mistake  its not to speculate on hypothetical scenarios.  
Swinton confirmed in its final response that had Mrs B made a claim either the insurer or 
Swinton, would have covered the claim. So I dont think that Mrs B would have suffered any 
financial loss as a result of the building not being insured.
Mrs B also complained that she had to instruct a solicitor to try to recover her costs, as a 
result of Swintons error. Both parties have confirmed that Swinton reimbursed Mrs Bs 
solicitor fees. So I think Swinton has been fair in reimbursing Mrs Bs solicitors fees. 
I have next considered the level of compensation Swinton paid to Mrs B for the trouble and 
upset it caused. I accept that this situation  would have been a worry for Mrs B and that 
some distress wouldve been caused. But I am satisfied that Swinton has recognised that 
errors were made and has paid compensation to reflect this. 
Our role isnt to fine or to punish the businesses we cover. Rather, we look at the effect on 
the customer including their upset. I can understand why Mrs B was upset and stressed to 
learn what had happened. And because of this, Mrs B sought more compensation. But Im 
satisfied that Mrs B suffered no financial loss. So, taking all of this into consideration, I think that the £100 compensation paid, for the 
trouble and upset caused, is fair and reasonable.  So, I wont be asking Swinton to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Swinton Group Limited has already paid £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman