DRN-2320987
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Hood Group Limited mis-sold her a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 February 2020, Mrs H bought a travel insurance policy online through Hood to cover a 
forthcoming trip she had booked to Thailand. A short while later, she called Hood to check 
whether or not trips which had to be cancelled as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic would 
be covered. Hoods call handler told Mrs H that they would be so long as itd been safe to 
travel when the policy was taken out.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad because of Covid-19. This meant Mrs Hs trip had to be cancelled. 
She made a claim for her cancellation costs on her travel insurance policy.
The insurer turned down her claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover 
claims which happened because of changes to FCO guidance. It told Mrs H the 
circumstances of her claim werent covered by the policy terms.
Mrs H was unhappy with the insurers decision. She said that Hood had told her that 
cancellation claims relating to Covid-19 would be covered. She said that if shed known that 
claims related to Covid-19 werent covered, she wouldve looked elsewhere for travel 
insurance. 
Hood accepted that its call handler had led Mrs H to believe that holidays which were 
cancelled due to Covid-19 would be covered. It said that if Mrs H was unable to recover her 
cancellation costs through her travel provider, it would step into the shoes of the insurer and 
consider a cancellation claim for travel and accommodation costs in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs Hs travel provider refunded the full costs of her trip. But Mrs H was left out of pocket for 
her pre-paid cattery costs of £680. She remained unhappy with how Hood had handled the 
sale of her policy and that it hadnt paid her any compensation. So she asked us to look into 
her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Hood needed to do anything more. She listened to the call 
between Mrs H and Hood. She agreed that Hood had told Mrs H that trips which were 
cancelled due to Covid-19 would be covered. But she noted that cattery fees werent 
discussed. And the policy didnt include cattery or pet care fees within the cancellation 
section. Hood had agreed to consider a claim for Mrs Hs irrecoverable accommodation and 
travel costs in the insurers stead as a result of the incorrect information it gave. But these 
had already been refunded by the travel provider. And as the policy simply didnt cover lost 
cattery fees, she didnt think Hood needed to pay anything more.
Mrs H disagreed. She said the cancellation section of the policy included cover for direct 
costs which were incurred as the result of a trip being cancelled. This didnt specify that it 
only referred to travel and accommodation costs. She hadnt made use of the cattery 
because she hadnt travelled as planned.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Hood has resolved Mrs Hs complaint fairly. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that when Mrs H called Hood to check whether shed be covered for 
cancellation if the FCO advised against all but essential travel, she was wrongly told she 
would be so long as itd been safe to travel when the policy was taken out. So I understand 
why Mrs H had a reasonable expectation that her cancellation claim would be considered by 
the insurer and why she wouldve been frustrated and disappointed when her claim was 
turned down.
Mrs H told us that if shed known the policy wouldnt cover changes to FCO guidance, she 
wouldve looked for alternative cover. There are policies on the market which do cover 
cancellation for this reason and so I think that if Mrs H had been given the right information 
when she called up, she likely would have made alternative arrangements.
As Hood acknowledged its error, it agreed to step into the shoes of the insurer and consider 
Mrs Hs claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. This is what Id expect it to do in 
these circumstances and I think it was an appropriate response. In this case, Mrs H was able 
to obtain a full refund of her travel and accommodation costs through her travel provider, 
which meant Mrs Hs only outstanding financial loss was the cattery fees.
Ive thought carefully about whether I think Hood should be liable for these costs. If Mrs H 
had asked about cattery fees during her call to Hood and had been told theyd be covered, I 
may have decided that it was liable to settle these costs. But Mrs H didnt query whether 
cattery fees would be covered by her policy, or what costs the cancellation section included, 
she simply asked about cancellation cover for changes to FCO guidance. So I havent seen 
enough evidence to show me that Hood misled Mrs H about whether or not cattery fees fell 
within the scope of cancellation cover.
The cancellation section of the policy covers costs which were directly related to a 
policyholders trip. These costs arent defined and so Mrs H feels her cattery fees should be 
treated as a direct cancellation cost. As I explained above, when Hood acknowledged itd 
made a mistake, it agreed to step into the shoes of the insurer and consider Mrs Hs claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. 
We asked the insurer whether if the claim had been covered, it wouldve agreed to pay Mrs 
Hs cattery fees. It told us that it usually considers costs directly related to a trip to be travel, 
accommodation and transfer costs etc. So it doesnt appear it wouldve agreed to settle Mrs 
Hs cattery costs, even if the rest of the claim had been accepted. I dont think then that it 
would be fair for me to direct Hood to pay more for a claim than the insurer wouldve done.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Hs position, I think that by agreeing to step into the 
insurers shoes and consider the claim, Hood did enough to put right its mistake. Im satisfied 
that if Mrs H hadnt been able to recover her travel and accommodation costs from the travel 
provider, Hood wouldve settled these in line with the policy terms and conditions. This 
means Im not telling Hood to do anything more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman