DRN-3449571
The complaint
Mrs A complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company (DAS) under her home 
emergency policy, about how DAS investigated a leak at her property.
References to DAS include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under the 
policy.
This decision only covers Mrs As complaint about the home emergency service provided by 
DAS. It doesnt consider her separate complaint against the insurer (H) of the home 
insurance policy which contained the home emergency service provided by DAS.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs A noticed water coming into her property from outside. In the first 
instance she contacted H, who arranged for a contractor to attend to investigate the leak 
(under the home emergency section of the policy). A contractor visited (although not within 
the 24-hour period advertised under the policy). The contractor wasnt able to identify the 
cause of the leak but advised Mrs A to arrange for the guttering around the roof to be 
cleaned of soil and leaves. She arranged for this to be carried out by a separate contractor 
(at a cost of £300).
 
In October 2020 Mrs A noticed water coming in again and contacted H, who arranged for a 
second contractor to investigate the leak. They also werent able to identify the cause. Mrs A 
contacted H again, this time under the home insurance part of the policy, to see if they could 
help. They sent contractors from a third company who diagnosed the problem as water 
coming in during periods of heavy rain and strong winds through a faulty seal in a dormer 
window in the roof. Mrs A paid the third contractor £510 to find and repair the faulty seal.
By this time, the damage to the inside of Mrs As property from the water entering had 
worsened. Mrs A made a separate claim to H for the damage to the interior of her property, 
but they declined the claim on the grounds that the damage had been caused by a 
maintenance issue with the window, so wasnt covered. Mrs A then started a separate claim 
for accidental damage but withdrew it as the excess under the policy (£750) was almost as 
much as the estimated cost to repair the damage.
Unhappy at this and the delays in identifying and fixing the cause of the water coming in, Mrs 
A complained to DAS. DAS upheld the complaint. In their final response, DAS accepted 
there had been failings in the way they had dealt with the issue. In recognition of this they 
agreed to reimburse Mrs A for the cost of the initial cleaning of the guttering and he repair to 
the faulty window seal. 
Unhappy at DASs final response, Mrs A complained to this service. The main point of her 
complaint was that the two contractors sent by DAS hadnt been able to diagnose and fix the 
problem of the water coming in, leading to the damage before the problem was fixed by the 
third contractor. She also felt it was unfair to then be faced with making a claim on her 
buildings insurance for the damage from the water and having to pay a £750 excess. She 
wanted DAS to pay for the water damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding DAS had acted fairly. He 
thought it would have been difficult for the first contractor to diagnose the problem as 
water wasnt entering at the time of the visit and it wasnt unreasonable to think 
guttering could have been the problem. But he thought DAS reimbursing the cost of 
cleaning the guttering was fair, as it was a maintenance task they didnt have to do. 
He also thought it was open to Mrs A to pursue a claim for the internal damage by 
making a claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. Nor would it be fair 
for DAS to pay (or H to waive) the excess payable, as this would be something that 
would apply to any successful claim under the policy.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. She didnt think the reimbursement of the £300 was relevant as 
it was for work that wasnt related to the actual cause of the water coming in (so it 
wasnt needed). She restated her view that the failure to diagnose the issue by the 
two DAS contractors meant the damage from the water coming in got worse. She was 
also unhappy at the time taken for DAS to reimburse the £300 and £510 costs shed 
incurred, which she said was only because of her complaint to DAS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DAS has acted fairly towards Mrs A.
The key issue in Mrs As complaint is that the two contractors sent by DAS werent able to 
diagnose the cause of the water coming in, leading to the damage getting worse. Shes also 
unhappy at the option of making a claim under her home insurance policy for accidental 
damage (and having to pay a £750 excess were she to do so). DAS acknowledge failings in 
the way they responded to the issue of the water coming in and have reimbursed Mrs A the 
cost of the gutter cleaning and the subsequent fixing of the window sealant issue. Ive 
thought about both views carefully, but on balance I think DAS have done enough to put 
things right in the circumstances of the case. I know Mrs A will be disappointed by this 
conclusion, so Ill set out why Ive come to that view.
Regarding the first contractor visit, it was just over three days from the evening of the day it 
was reported by Mrs A. The DAS case notes record being told by Mrs A that she thought it 
may have been from the guttering/roof above the dormer window. The case notes refer to 
the valley above the window having growth and soil, so I dont think it was unreasonable that 
the contractor thought the issue lay with the guttering and valley. Which would be consistent 
with the advice given to clear leaves and soil in the guttering (which was then carried out by 
an independent contractor). While the cause of the water coming in was subsequently found 
to be a faulty seal around the dormer window, given what Ive seen, I dont think the above 
sequence of events is unreasonable.
 
The issue then seems not to have re-occurred until the following October, when Mrs A 
contacted DAS again and the second contractor visited. Again, the contractor wasnt able to 
diagnose the cause of the water coming in. It was when the third contractor visited 
(appointed by H under the buildings insurance section of the policy) that the faulty window 
seal was diagnosed (and fixed). Looking at the case notes, it appears Mrs A raised concerns 
at this point, in response to which DAS issued a Summary Resolution Letter and paid £50 in 
compensation. Thinking about what happened, it was again unfortunate that the second 
contractor couldnt locate the issue, though DAS suggested Mrs A approach H. It was then 
the third contractor visited and diagnosed the issue with the faulty window seal.
 Ive thought about what happened, in particular that visits by two DAS contractors werent 
able to diagnose and fix the issue. Ive also considered the response by DAS, which was to 
reimburse Mrs A for both the initial guttering clearing (£300) and the subsequent repair of the 
faulty seal (£510). While Mrs A says the former wasnt necessary, as shes been reimbursed 
for the cost then she hasnt lost out financially. And as shes had the cost of the repair 
reimbursed, shes in the same position financially as she would have been had the DAS 
contractor diagnosed and fixed the problem. Based on this, I think DAS have acted fairly and 
reasonably.
That leaves the issue of the internal damage from the water coming in. Ive thought about 
this, but I dont think there are grounds to require DAS to take any further action. I say that 
because its open to Mrs A to make a claim for the damage under her home insurance 
policy, specifically under the accidental damage section of the policy. I recognise what shes 
told us about not wanting to do this because of the £750 excess that would apply (as well as 
then affecting her claims record). But the excess is part of the policys terms and conditions 
and would be payable under any successful claim. And the purpose of home emergency is 
to respond to emergencies, diagnose and fix problems that arise. It isnt to cover 
consequential damage from those problems (thats for the home insurance policy).
 
Taking all these factors into account, I think DAS have acted fairly and reasonably by 
reimbursing Mrs A for the costs of the gutter cleaning and the subsequent cost of repairing 
the faulty window seal. So, I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman