DRN-4120646
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect his father 
and prevent him losing a significant amount of money to scammers. 
Mr M brings this complaint in his capacity as the executor of his late-fathers estate.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr M says his father was vulnerable and fell victim to a number of scams in the years 
leading up to his death in 2021. He has identified 532 transactions  to over 40 different 
recipients and totalling more than £800,000  that took place between March 2013 and 
November 2020. He thinks NatWest failed in its duty of care to protect his father and 
should refund the disputed transactions.
NatWest accepted that Mr Ms father had probably been scammed multiple times. But it 
didnt agree that it ought to have prevented any of the disputed transactions. It offered to 
refund four payments totalling £3,530 as they were all made after the introduction of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code. But Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to 
review the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the bank had acted unreasonably. So he didnt recommend 
that it should refund any more of the disputed transactions. Mr M disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling and have sympathy for the
situation his father found himself in, I agree with the investigator that I cant fairly instruct
NatWest to refund any of the remaining disputed transactions. Ive taken the following into 
account when reaching this conclusion.
NatWest has referred to the Limitations Act 1980 and said any payments made more 
than six years ago have been referred out of time. NatWest should know that the time 
limits we operate under are set out in the DISP section of the FCAs handbook. And the 
relevant rules say a consumer has six years from the event to raise a complaint or, if 
later, three years from the date they became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) that they had cause for complaint. Ive seen nothing that suggests 
Mr Ms father knew hed been scammed before he died such that he ought to have 
realised he had cause to complain against the bank. So Im satisfied this entire complaint 
has been brought in time.
The guidance and best practice available to banks, when the first scam took place, about 
how to support potentially vulnerable customers and how to spot and help protect 
customers from fraud, were far more limited than they are today. But the broad principle, 
to pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly, existed. The 
Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) were also in place and were updated in 
2017. And additional guidance and best practice has developed over time. When making 
my decision Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice  relating to the fair treatment of vulnerable customers generally, and 
protecting all customers from fraud  that were in place at the relevant times.
In broad terms, banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
customers authorise them to make, in accordance with the PSRs and the terms and 
conditions of the account. The PSRs also require banks to award a refund if their 
customer didnt make or authorise a payment themselves. But theres been no 
suggestion that any of the disputed payments werent authorised by Mr Ms father. 
Until the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code was introduced in May 2019 there was 
no automatic right to reimbursement for victims of Authorised Push Payment scams. 
And, even now, certain criteria must be met in order to qualify for reimbursement. Mr M 
has only disputed four payments made after the Codes introduction and NatWest 
promptly offered to refund all of those transactions, totalling £3,530. I think thats fair in 
the circumstances and given the provisions of the Code.
There are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional 
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its 
customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this might be if 
a payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic given the way the 
customers account is usually used. In such circumstances Id expect NatWest to 
intervene and ask more questions about the intended transaction before processing it. Id 
also expect NatWest to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its 
customers make an informed decision about whether they want to continue with the 
payment. But even if I were to apply these expectations to the very first of the disputed 
transactions, I wouldnt conclude that NatWest ought to have intervened. Its clear that a 
lot of money moved through the account between 2013 and 2020. But Im not convinced 
the payments Mr M has identified ought to have stood out to the bank compared to the 
transactions his father made which didnt end up with scammers. In this particular case, 
Im not persuaded that the bank ought to have intervened with regards to any of the 
disputed transactions.
Mr M has explained, in some detail, his fathers history. He says his father was 
vulnerable due to various medical conditions and, latterly, because of the isolation 
caused by the covid pandemic. Hes also provided some medical records from which I 
can see his father had various medical conditions over the years, but a number of 
consultants also referred to him being fit and well. Mr M also explains that his father was 
a successful businessman, despite the challenges hed faced throughout his life. He 
lived alone up until his death and theres been no suggestion that he had any support 
from family or professional carers with regards to personal or financial matters. It also 
seems clear that Mr M and his family knew nothing about what his father was doing with 
the scammer. Finally, theres nothing in the banks records that suggest it knew, or ought 
to have known, that Mr Ms father might be vulnerable and/or needed additional support.  
The banks notes suggest it did contact Mr Ms father, on occasion, over the years 
including to give support and advice about the use of his overdraft.  But I havent seen 
anything which suggests it ought to have reached out to him or intervened with regards 
to any of the disputed transactions.Im satisfied NatWest has made reasonable attempts to recover money from the 
receiving banks, but these efforts were unsuccessful. That doesnt surprise me as, in my 
experience, fraudsters usually move money on very quickly after receipt and, in this 
case, some considerable time had passed between the payments being made and the 
scams being reported.
My final decision
My final decision is that the banks offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay £3,530 to the estate, if it has not already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M (on behalf of 
his late-fathers estate) to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman