DRN-1727186
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National at the time, mis-sold her 
a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
In 2001, Miss C took out a regular premium MPPI policy. The policy cost £23.85 a month 
and gave her £395 of cover - for up to twelve months - if she was unable to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the MPPI had been mis-sold. Miss C disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case. I know this will be disappointing for 
Miss C but, having done so, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold for reasons that Ill now 
explain.
Miss C says she was told at the time of the sale that she needed to take the MPPI policy out 
to obtain her mortgage.
This sale took place a long time ago. So, perhaps, its not that surprising that not all 
the documentation likely to have been completed at the time is still available. Businesses 
arent required to keep these sorts of records for such lengthy periods. In these 
circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the 
limited information available to me.
Although there isnt a copy of Miss Cs MPPI application form available, Im aware that one 
would need to have been completed and sent to the insurer at the time of the sale. And from 
seeing such application forms for other consumers from around this time, together with this 
Services knowledge of the normal sales process that Santander used, I think it would have 
been clear that the MPPI was optional and separate from her mortgage application. 
Miss C would also have needed to complete a separate direct debit mandate for the insurer 
to be able to collect the monthly MPPI premiums. And Santander has been able to provide a 
copy of the welcome letter which was sent to Miss C shortly after the sale. I can see this 
includes, details of the first direct debit payment Miss C was to be charged on this policy in 
October 2001, together with confirmation of the cover provided by the MPPI. This letter also 
thanks Miss C for choosing to take out the MPPI policy.I accept that its possible that a Santander representative Miss C spoke to at the time did 
wrongly mislead her into thinking she needed to agree to the MPPI to get her mortgage. But 
I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude this is what is most likely to have happened, 
based only on what Miss C thinks she remembers being said to her now. This sale took 
place a very long time ago and memories of such discussions do normally fade over such 
lengthy periods of time. 
On balance, having carefully considered all the information and evidence available to me, I 
think its most likely that Miss C did actively decided to take the MPPI, knowing she could 
choose not to do so. But I can understand why she might not be able to recall this now.
Santander says that this would have been an advised sale, where it recommended the MPPI 
policy to Miss C. And Ive taken this to be the case because this means that Santander had 
to ensure that it was suitable for her. I cant now know the steps Santander took to ensure 
that the policy was suitable. But from what I know of Miss Cs circumstances at the time, I 
cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Miss C appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions and limitations. 
 
Miss C says she didnt need the policy because she had other means of making her 
monthly mortgage repayments if she couldnt work. These included an entitlement to 
sick pay; some savings; an income from a rental property, and support from family 
and friends. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other means. And 
a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones home is potentially at risk if 
the loan repayments cant be met. So I still think she would have valued the extra 
security which the policy gave her.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss C. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met her needs.
 
Santander also needed to give Miss C enough information for her to decide if she wanted to 
take the policy. I think its possible that the information Santander gave Miss C could have 
been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for her, I dont think that better information would have changed her mind about 
taking it. I still think Miss C would have thought the policy gave her useful benefits at an 
affordable cost. 
So I dont think that Miss C has lost out by anything that Santander may have done wrong 
when it sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about all the reasons Miss C has given for still thinking that the MPPI 
policy was mis-sold to her by Santander.  But this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding her complaint. However, I think it might be helpful to Miss C if I try to clarify 
matters in relation to some of the points raised by her since receiving our adjudicators view 
on her complaint.
Miss C has said that when she re-mortgaged her property with another provider in 2003 the 
MPPI policy sold to her in 2001 ceased to provide her with any protection. But I dont think 
this was the case. Her MPPI was a standalone policy and, as such, could have continued to provide protection to her even after her original mortgage had been redeemed.  In any case, 
this complaint only considers whether the policy was mis-sold to her in 2001. So subsequent 
changes in Miss Cs circumstances arent really of relevance in considering this.
Miss C has also said that shes confused by the adjudicator saying in his view letter that: 
 
This only applies to mortgage agreements taken out before April 2007 that were still 
running on or after April 2008. From the information Ive seen, regarding this account theres 
no evidence to suggest this mortgage was still running on or after 6 April 2008.
 
Miss C says that, although the mortgage wasnt still running, the MPPI policy was. But I 
should explain that, in determining whether a consumer may be entitled to compensation for 
any excess commission the business received for selling the policy, it is the dates that the 
lending started and finished - not the dates when the policy itself started and finished  
which are relevant under the rules which apply. And as the mortgage which Miss C originally 
took out with her MPPI policy in 2001 ended in 2003, it wasnt still running on or after 
April 2008. 
I can also see that Miss C subsequently re-mortgaged her property with Santander in 2005. 
But this was what is called a regulated mortgage and compensation in relation to 
commission earned on the sale of a MPPI policy isnt payable in relation to such mortgages. 
So, like the adjudicator, I dont think this MPPI sale is one where compensation for the 
commission earned by Santander needs to be considered further.
I hope that this helps clarify some of the matters raised by Miss C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman