DRN-1886793
The complaint
This complaint is about a second charge loan Mr and Mrs W have that is secured on their 
property. The loan was transferred to Target Servicing Limited, trading as Coast Finance 
Solutions, after the original lender stopped trading. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Coast wont allow them to keep to the payment arrangement 
they had with the previous lender to pay £50 a month; instead, its asked them to pay almost 
£400 a month.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the investigators findings and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
The investigator proposed that Coast should obtain an up to date valuation of the property to 
assess the likelihood that the loan could be repaid if Mr and Mrs W were to sell it. He also 
said Coast should allow Mr and Mrs W six weeks grace to seek independent financial 
advice on the viability of refinancing. After both of the above had taken place, Coast should 
then make a fresh assessment of how the loan might be repaid.
Coast agreed to this but Mr and Mrs W asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I trust Mr and Mrs W wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome. 
Most of the comments Mr and Mrs W have made in response to the investigators view arent 
relevant to this complaint but to another one that our investigator dealt with separately. To be 
clear, my findings here, and the decision that flows from them, deal solely with the fairness 
or otherwise of Coast asking Mr and Mrs W to agree to pay more each month towards the 
eventual repayment of their loan.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same overall reasons. Coast was reasonably entitled to broach the topic and ask 
Mr and Mrs W for a new payment arrangement, but it did so without first doing enough 
research to establish the background and wider circumstances. The compromise 
recommended by the investigator is fair, as it gives both parties the opportunity to better 
inform themselves before a fresh assessment is made.
If an agreement isnt reached after that fresh assessment, then thats a new complaint 
Mr and Mrs W can make at the time (subject to our usual rules, of course). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, above, I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I 
order Target Servicing Limited, trading as Coast Finance Solutions to:
obtain, at its own expense, an up to date valuation of the security property; 
allow Mr and Mrs W a grace period of six weeks* to obtain independent financial advice 
on the viability of re-financing the loan; and
on completion of the above, conduct a fresh assessment of Mr and Mrs Ws ability to 
repay the loan.
*The grace period will begin on the date Coast receives confirmation of Mr and Mrs Ws 
acceptance of my final decision, in the event that they do so.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman