DRN-3830283
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr O bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2016. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Shawbrook that was repayable over 15 years. Shawbrook is therefore 
liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, 
that relates to the supplier misleading Mr O into believing that the system would be self-
funding, in that the income and savings from the system would cover the monthly loan 
repayments.
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr O, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Shawbrook said it had asked for comments from the supplier but never provided these. It 
later asked for a decision from an ombudsman and confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
As such, Ive been asked to make a decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this complaint. 
The sales documents provided show the cost of the system but not its benefits. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Mr O to have relied on what he was told when making his decision to 
purchase the system. He was told that the system would be self-funding in that the income 
and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. That is not the case. So, Im satisfied 
there was a misrepresentation which induced Mr O to purchase the system when he 
otherwise would not have done so. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that Shawbrook can be held responsible 
for the suppliers misrepresentation. So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr O fairly when 
it rejected his claim. And this means that Shawbrook should put things right.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Os complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr O from the solar panels over the original loan term, so 
he pays no more than that. 
Usually, the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But weve been told that Mr Os solar panels were not registered for the FIT 
scheme, and he has not received any FIT payments. So, in these circumstances, I dont 
think its fair that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
Shawbrook is aware of our approach on this. And that putting things right in this way is much 
less expensive for Shawbrook than unwinding the credit agreement. 
I understand Mr O no longer lives at the property where the solar panels are installed. But I 
dont think this should have any bearing on how Shawbrook puts things right. Mr O wouldve 
been aware that by moving out of the property he would no longer benefit from them, and so 
gave up the opportunity to benefit from future savings. So, Shawbrook can still take into 
account the savings Mr O would have received over the term of the loan. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr O is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr O by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr Os loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr O in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the original loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr O have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr O, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr O, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr O accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.If Mr O has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr O has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr O paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr O receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr O paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr O receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr O the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr O first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. To recognise the 
distress and inconvenience this caused, I direct Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation to 
Mr O.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman