DRN-1424466
The complaint
Miss P complains about the valuation that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
offered for her car under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ps car was declared a total loss following an incident. AA offered her £4,200, less the 
policy excess, in settlement of her claim. It said this was the cars market value. But Miss P 
said shed recently bought the car and spent money on it. She said she couldnt replace the 
car for this amount.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AAs 
offer for the cars market value was made correctly according to our approach. So she 
thought this was fair and reasonable. 
Miss P replied that she couldnt replace her car for less than £5,225. She asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ps frustration with the settlement of her claim. She was hit by another 
driver and shes told us her the claim has been recorded as non-fault. But she said she 
hasnt been provided with enough in her settlement to buy a like for like car.
Miss P said shed bought the car privately four months earlier for £4,000. Shed valued it at 
£4,500 on her policy. I can see that Miss Ps policy provides for the cars market value in the 
case of its total loss. It doesnt provide for a like for like replacement. AA said its market 
value was £4,200.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Miss P provided us with ads for similar cars that were priced higher than AAs offer. But we 
dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
The investigator thought AAs offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she came 
to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the guides we use for cars of the same make, 
model, age, low mileage and condition as Miss Ps. The cars extra features increased its 
valuation only slightly. The range she found was between £3,725 and £4,280. 
AAs settlement offer was more than the average of this range. So I think that AAs offer was 
fair and reasonable as it was made correctly in keeping with our approach. I dont require it 
to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman