DRN-2613010
The complaint
Ms C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited granted her a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
In May 2018, Ms C took out a personal loan with Shawbrook for £7,000. The loan was to be 
repaid over five years with the repayments set at £166.29 a month.
In early 2020, Ms C who is self-employed, was unable to work due to ill health. She 
contacted Shawbrook to ask for a payment holiday. Shawbrook initially refused her request. 
But after she complained, it apologised and arranged two months non-payment for March 
and April. It also paid her £30 compensation.
Ms C also complained that Shawbrook shouldnt have lent her the money in the first place. 
She said she was pre-approved for the loan and no income check was completed. 
Shawbrook said affordability checks were carried out, based on information Ms C had 
provided when she applied for the loan. The application passed without hitting any 
unaffordability indicators, which suggested the loan was affordable on the income 
information given at the time.
Ms C brought her complaint to our service. She was also unhappy that Shawbrook had sold 
her debt on to another company. Our investigator looked into Ms Cs concerns but didnt 
think her complaint should be upheld. Ms C disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2021, where I explained why I intended to hold 
Ms Cs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance require lenders to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks before making a lending decision to ensure its affordable for the 
consumer to make repayments. 
Shawbrook says Ms Cs loan application was auto accepted, which verifies income and does 
bank account validation. Ms C had given her employment details as self-employed  senior 
management on £18,000 pa, when she would have had the option to select student on the 
application. There was little outstanding credit or signs of financial struggle on Ms Cs credit 
file. Shawbrook says a call was not required.
Ms C has told us that she was a mature student when she took out the loan and her degree 
was coming to an end. I can see she selected self-employed on the application and gave 
her income as £18,000 pa. But time with employer is showing as 0 years 0 months. This 
suggests that Ms Cs employment had recently changed at the time she made her 
application. So, I think further checks should have been done to verify her income. This 
might have included a call to Ms C to find out where her income of £18,000 was coming from 
and assessing how stable this was.
Ms C says she had been living off student loans and hardship bursaries from the university. 
Shed cashed in a pension and had a small income of £315 from that along with board and 
lodging from her son (£300 a month). Ms C held two current accounts at the time, one of 
which was a student account. Shes sent us copies of her bank statements from both 
accounts, which support what shes said about having very little to live on. 
Ms C says that as a self-employed freelancer shes never had a predictable income. From 
what Ive been told, Ms C kept up with her repayments for around 18 months, before she 
contacted Shawbrook to let it know she was struggling. But I dont think the fact that she was 
able to make repayments for a time is enough to show that they were affordable for her or 
the lending was responsible. Ms C says she made her repayments instead of eating at 
times. I can see shes also borrowed from elsewhere.
In these circumstances, I dont think the checks Shawbrook made were proportionate. Whilst 
the credit file might not have had adverse information, this isnt enough to show that the loan 
was affordable moving forward. Also, the employment type was declared as self-employed 
which could be considered a risky and unreliable source of income for someone with no 
employment history of any kind.
If Shawbrook had done sufficient checks, I think it would have seen that Ms C wasnt in a 
position repay the loan sustainably. In other words, she wouldnt be able to do so without 
undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow 
further. 
So, I dont think Shawbrook should have granted the loan to Ms C.
Im satisfied from the information Shawbrook has provided that its decision to sell her debt 
was a commercial one. While the terms and conditions of the account allowed it to do so, I 
think it would be appropriate for Shawbrook to buy the debt back so it can put things right for 
Ms C.
I set out what I intended to direct Shawbrook to do to put things right.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. But neither Shawbook nor Ms C 
responded with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Shawbrook should take Ms Cs debt back from the third party it sold it to and:
Remove any interest and charges (including any added by the third party) still 
outstanding on the loan and treat all the payments Ms C made towards this loan 
(including any made to the third party) as payments towards the capital.If reworking Ms Cs loan account as Ive directed results in Ms C effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Shawbrook should refund 
these overpayments with 8% per annum simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of the 
settlement.
If reworking Ms Cs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Shawbrook should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms C for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information on Ms Cs credit file (including any added by the 
third party) in relation to the loan.
HM Revenue &Customs requires Shawbrook to take off tax from this interest. Shawbrook must give Ms C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Cs complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman