DRN-4083704
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited hasnt paid for 
private treatment under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a single trip travel insurance policy which covered them between 
1 February and 31 March 2022. The insurer was Red Sands.
Mr and Mrs C were on a holiday abroad. During the trip, Mr C had an accident and suffered 
an injury. Mr C had surgery, and he was treated at a private hospital. Shortly afterwards, he 
had to go back to hospital for further treatment, and he was admitted to the same private 
hospital. Mr and Mrs C want Red Sands to pay for the private treatment.
Red Sands said Mr and Mrs Cs policy doesnt cover private treatment where public facilities 
were available. So, Red Sands declined the claim. Unhappy with this response, Mr and 
Mrs C brought the complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Having done so, she didnt 
think Red Sands had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. This was because she 
thought Mr and Mrs C hadnt given Red Sands the opportunity to assess if Mr C couldve 
been transferred to and treated at a public hospital. She thought they wanted Mr C to be 
treated at the private hospital instead. So, she didnt think Red Sands needed to pay for 
Mr Cs private treatment.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision in March 2023. 
Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr Cs initial treatment
Late on 31 March 2022, Mr C suffered an injury and he was taken to a hospital by an 
ambulance. Mr and Mrs Cs son called Red Sands the following morning to let it know Mr C 
was in hospital. Red Sands explained that private treatment was only covered if public 
facilities werent available, and it needed to establish if it was medically safe to transfer Mr C. 
Mrs Cs son explained that hed phoned the public hospital, which was over an hour away, 
and hed been told they werent able to carry out the surgery Mr C needed for over a month.
Red Sands called the private hospital to establish if Mr C could be moved to a public facility 
but it wasnt able to speak to the treating doctor. Red Sands noted that the surgery Mr C 
needed should ideally be done within 24h and moving him to a public facility was likely to 
lead to delays in surgery taking place, which increased risks of complications. Red Sands 
noted that the nearest public facility was over an hour away. So, the medical preference was 
for Mr C to remain in the private facility and have the surgery and the post operative 
rehabilitation there.
Red Sands contacted its local agent to ask if there was a public facility that would accept 
Mr C and be able to perform the surgery in the next 24 to 48h. The agent responded to say 
the public hospitals didnt deliver medical reports, so the agent couldnt follow up, and it 
wouldnt know if there were any nearby dates for the surgery Mr C needed. The agent 
recommended another private hospital nearby that would allow costs to be contained.
Red Sands responded to the agent to re-iterate its question about a public hospital and said 
it didnt need to move Mr C to another private hospital. The agent responded to re-iterate the 
points in response to the original question and explained why it recommended another 
private hospital. Following this, Red Sands notes show a medical report on 1 April 2022 
around 5pm which recommended surgery to be done locally as soon as possible.
The local agent told Red Sands on 1 April 2022 around 11pm that public hospital would 
accept Mr C if he had insurance coverage. The hospital said it would need to evaluate Mr C 
to determine when the surgery could be done.
Red Sands added a task to contact the private hospital Mr C was at and ask if he could be 
moved to a public hospital or if this would delay surgery. Red Sands noted that if there would 
be a delay, not to proceed with the transfer but to provide an update on this. But when Red 
Sands spoke with the hospital on 2 April 2022 around 11am to follow up on the above note, 
it was notified that Mr Cs family wanted him to go ahead with the surgery at the private 
hospital he was at. The surgery was due to go ahead shortly.
After Mr C had gone ahead with the surgery, Red Sands confirmed to Mr and Mrs Cs son on 
2 April 2022 around 5pm that there was no cover for the private treatment costs Mr C had 
incurred. This was because Mr C hadnt originally gone to a public facility, so Red Sands 
hadnt been able to confirm if Mr C couldve been treated there instead.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs policy say the following:
PLEASE NOTE: This is a travel insurance policy and not private medical insurance. This 
means there is no cover for any medical expenses incurred in private medical facilities if we 
have confirmed that medically capable public facilities are available.
The medical section of the policy also says that there was no cover for cost of private 
treatment unless our 24/7 assistance team has agreed and adequate public facilities are not 
available.
It's clear that Mr C and his family wanted to go ahead with the surgery at the private hospital 
he was at. But based on what I've seen so far, I'm not persuaded that Red Sands would've 
done (or reasonably should've done) anything different, even if had assessed the situation 
fully before Mr C went ahead with the surgery. I'll explain why.
Firstly, Red Sands medical team noted that Mr C required surgery within 24 to 48h of the 
incident. This would've meant he needed surgery before the end of 2 April 2022 at the latest.
 It's not uncommon for an ambulance to take a patient to a private hospital if its the nearest 
one, as was the case here. But when this happens, I think it was Red Sands' responsibility to 
arrange to move Mr C to another facility, if it wasn't happy to pay for the costs at the facility 
he was at. And it should've done so promptly, considering the urgency of the surgery 
needed.
As Ive outlined above, Red Sands medical team noted that the medical preference was for 
Mr C to remain in the current private facility, and to have surgery and the post operative 
rehabilitation performed there. And Red Sands local agent didnt recommend moving Mr C 
to a public facility, as it wasnt able to get any information or reports. Instead, it 
recommended another private hospital nearby. Following this, Red Sands notes show a 
medical report with a recommendation for Mr C to have the surgery locally as soon as 
possible.
 
With the above in mind, I think it's unlikely Red Sands would've arranged Mr C to be 
transferred to the public hospital, even if had been given more time to assess the situation. 
Red Sands own medical team, and the local agent, recommended Mr C to remain at the 
private facility he was at, and to have surgery as soon as possible. Additionally, it didn't 
seem reasonable for Mr C to be moved to a hospital that wouldn't provide Red Sands any 
medical reports, so it wouldn't have been able to get information for the treatment needs or 
repatriation.
Red Sands has said its notes also show that the private hospital was unable to perform 
surgery on Mr C on 1 April 2022, so there was a window of opportunity to move Mr C to a 
public facility once it had been confirmed he was medically fit to be moved. Red Sands has 
also said that whilst the local agent may not be able to obtain medical information from the 
public hospital, its own medical team were well versed in gathering medical updates and 
they wouldve been able to phone the hospital for medical updates.
 
But from looking through Red Sands notes, it wasnt until around 11am on 2 April 2022 
when it was asking Mr C to be transferred to the public hospital. And this was still without 
confirmation of when surgery could be performed there, and the hospital was over an hour 
away. At this point, I think Red Sands also missed an opportunity to consider moving Mr C to 
the other, recommended, private hospital. 
Having considered everything, I think its unlikely Red Sands wouldve moved Mr C to 
another facility, even if Mr and Mrs C hadnt already paid for the treatment to go ahead at the 
private hospital. I say this considering Red Sands own medical teams notes, the local 
agents recommendations, and considering the urgency of treatment needed.
Overall, Im minded to say it would be fair and reasonable for Red Sands to pay for Mr Cs 
claim for the initial private treatment he received, at the hospital he received it at.
Mr Cs follow up treatment
Mr C was discharged from the hospital on 6 April 2022, and Red Sands was arranging him 
and Mrs C to return home. But before Red Sands was able to do that, Mr C had to go back 
to the hospital on 10 April 2022.Red Sands says Mr C explicitly chose to attend the private hospital on his second 
admission, as hed already been told private treatment wasnt covered. Red Sands has also 
referred to a phone call between its medical team and the hospital where the interpreter 
explained that when Mr C was taken to the emergency department, he wouldve been given 
the option to be treated privately, or to be transferred to the public hospital over an hour 
away. But as Mr C paid a deposit for the private hospital, that means he chose to be treated 
at the private facility instead of the public one. Overall, Red Sands doesnt think it should pay 
for Mr Cs second admission to the private hospital.
Ive thought about this carefully. But as I think its more likely than not that Red Sands 
wouldve ultimately authorised Mr C to be treated at the private hospital for the initial 
treatment, I dont think its unreasonable that Mr C went back to the same hospital. I can also 
see that Red Sands tried to contact the public hospital several times, but it was unable to 
speak to anyone.
Overall, Im minded to say that it would be fair and reasonable for Red Sands to also pay 
Mr Cs claim for the follow up treatment at the private facility.
 
If Mr and Mrs C can show theyve paid for the medical costs themselves, I think Red Sands 
should also pay them 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs C paid these costs until 
the date of settlement. But I know Mr and Mrs Cs son paid some of these costs. As hes not 
a policyholder, and therefore not a party to this complaint, I dont think Red Sands needs to 
pay any interest on these amounts until these have been paid by Mr and Mrs C  either 
directly to the hospital or their son. Its for Mr and Mrs C to provide Red Sands with 
reasonable evidence to show who made those payments and when.
Ive also considered whether Red Sands actions have caused Mr and Mrs C unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. And Im aware most of the contact has been between their son 
and Red Sands. Again, as hes not a policyholder, I cant make any awards to him for any 
distress or inconvenience he experienced. That said, I do think Red Sands' refusal to agree 
to cover the private treatment, or offer a reasonable alternative promptly, caused Mr and 
Mrs C distress and inconvenience. Im minded to say £200 is fair in the circumstances.
Red Sands didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, it said the following:
Red Sands had made it very clear private treatment wasnt covered  both in the 
policy documentation and during live assistance.
It wouldve been highly unlikely Red Sands wouldve been able to find out from the 
public facility when surgery would take place as this could only be commented on 
after assessing the patient.
On the second admission, Mr and Mrs C were given the option to receive private or 
public treatment. Had they chosen to receive public treatment, this wouldve been 
provided at no cost.
Additionally, Red Sands sent examples of receiving information from the public hospital and 
discussing treatment with the hospital relating to other patients.
Mr and Mrs C didnt provide any further comments in response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the points Red Sands has made in response to my provisional 
decision, and the further evidence it has sent. But overall, these dont change my findings. My decision is based on the individual circumstances of this complaint. Firstly, I dont think 
its unreasonable that Mr C first went to the private hospital. This is because this is where he 
was taken by the ambulance, he was in pain and needed urgent care, the public hospital 
was over an hour away and Mr and Mrs Cs son had spoken to that hospital and he says it 
hadnt been able to confirm Mr C could be treated urgently.
That said, this on its own doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable for Red Sands to pay 
the claim, considering the policy terms and conditions on private treatment.
But whats important here is that, as I explained in my provisional decision, Red Sands own 
medical team recommended Mr C to have the treatment locally as soon as possible. And 
even when Red Sands got in touch with the private hospital to query the possibility of moving 
Mr C to the public hospital (by which time more than 24h had already passed), its own notes 
said not to go ahead if this would cause delays  rather, an update would need to be 
provided. Its also clear that the local agent Red Sands approached didnt recommend 
transferring Mr C to the public hospital.
Overall, I still think its more likely than not that Red Sands wouldnt have (or reasonably 
shouldnt have) moved Mr C to another facility, even if Mr and Mrs C hadnt already paid for 
the treatment to go ahead at the private hospital. I say this considering Red Sands own 
medical teams notes, the local agents recommendations, and considering the urgency of 
the treatment needed.
On the second admission, Red Sands is now saying the private hospital was obligated to 
provide emergency public treatment at no cost. But this isnt what all the other information 
Ive seen shows. I accept that its possible Mr and Mrs C wouldve been given the option to 
receive public treatment, but this wouldve meant moving Mr C to the public hospital over an 
hour away. And Mr and Mrs C have explained he was in pain at the time.
And in any event, as I explained in my provisional decision, as I think Red Sands wouldve 
ultimately authorised Mr C to be treated at the private hospital for the initial treatment, I dont 
think its unreasonable that Mr C went back to the same hospital. Additionally, the notes 
show that Red Sands tried to contact the public hospital several times, but it was unable to 
speak to anyone.
Ive thought about the information Red Sands has sent to show its been able to 
communicate with the public hospital. But in the circumstances of this complaint, the 
information Red Sands had at the time was a recommendation from its own medical team 
and local agent that Mr C should be treated locally. The local agent had also highlighted a 
concern about lack of information from the public hospital, which I think wouldve been very 
important at the time considering the urgency of treatment needed.
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. Overall, I dont think Red Sands has acted 
fairly or reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Cs claim for private treatment.
I also explained in my provisional decision my findings on interest on the award, and what I 
thought was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. As neither party 
has given me anything new to consider on these aspects, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached on these in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I direct Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
pay for Mr Cs private medical treatment costs in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy,
pay Mr and Mrs C 8% simple interest on these costs from the date they paid them 
(either to the hospital or their son) until the date of settlement, and
pay Mr and Mrs C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman