DRN-4361274
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money he lost 
to an investment scam. 
Mr N is represented by a third party, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as 
having come from Mr N alone. 
What happened
In 2015, Mr Ns friend attended an investment seminar ran by a man called Derek 
representing a company Ill call P. The friend put Mr N in touch with Derek after he received 
a large inheritance. 
Mr N was told of an opportunity to invest and that the investment would pay returns of 
9.85%, that it was low risk, safe and would be used to fund payday loans in the USA. Based 
on this information, Mr N decided to invest. On 29 January 2016, Mr N visited a Halifax 
branch, accompanied by Derek, and he sent a CHAPS payment of £200,000 to the 
investment account. Mr N received returns totalling £19,700 paid on a quarterly basis from 
13 May 2016 until 15 February 2017. After the payments stopped, Mr N contacted Derek 
and was reassured that all was well. 
Around January 2021, Mr N received a letter from the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) saying 
they had started an investigation into P. 
Mr N complained to Halifax in April 2023 and said it failed to protect him from financial harm 
and amongst other things it should have recognise he was vulnerable based on his gambling 
history. 
Halifax issued its final response on 30 June 2023 stating that it carried out research and 
didnt find evidence to suggest Ps operation was fraudulent. It noted P went into 
administration in 2018 then compulsory liquidation at the end of 2019. Halifax contacted the 
recipient bank who confirmed no funds remained. Halifax also contacted the SFO who 
confirmed its initial investigation into P was closed down without any further enquiries. 
One of our Investigators looked into things, she didnt think Halifaxs decision not to refund 
Mr N was unreasonable. Mr N didnt agree. He said in summary:
Halifax didnt question Mr Ns transaction at all.
It is accepted Halifax didnt need to provide financial advice, it could have warned 
him of the risks associated with the transaction, which would have caused him to 
reconsider.
Evidence suggests a person associated with P was embroiled in numerous scams 
prior to Mr Ns investment. 
The rate of guaranteed returns were misleading and should have been recognised as 
a high risk, unregulated investment. 
Had Halifax carried out further due diligence it would have noted P was only 
incorporated 6 months prior to the investment which was a risk of fraud. 
The returns were in keeping with a typical Ponzi scheme. 
There doesnt need to be a regulator warning to confirm that P operated a scam.
One of the directors of P referred to himself as a chartered accountant when he didnt 
become so until 2017 and that misrepresentation was indicative of fraud.
Derek was an unregulated introducer and attended the branch with Mr N, this ought 
to have been suspicious.
The SFOs lack of producing a fraud conviction or successful investigation is 
irrelevant.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why. 
Before I do, Ive noted Mr Ns comments that he was vulnerable at the time of his 
investment. Ive seen no evidence that would suggest Halifax was aware of Mr Ns 
vulnerabilities, nor have I seen anything to suggest that Halifax should have reasonably 
concluded that Mr N was incapable of making financial decisions for himself  even high risk 
ones.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some companies may have used sales and promotional methods that 
could be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this 
does not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mr Ns case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about companies that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about companies that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent or unauthorised.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that P has no adverse information 
reported about them. Indeed, my own research hasnt resulted in any compelling information 
to show it was fraudulent.  Mr N highlighted the SFOs investigation, Ive noted that theres been no communicated 
outcome or conviction of P. Ive further noted that P was incorporated on Companies House 
and subsequently went into administration. 
I have no doubt that Derek may have misled Mr W about the risks involved with this type of 
investment but Ive not seen that P made any misrepresentations to him.
Ive further seen that Mr P received quarterly returns totalling £19,700 up to a year after his 
initial investment. In common circumstances of investment fraud, the beneficiary disappears 
with all of the money as quickly as possible. So, its unusual that Mr N received returns from 
an alleged fraudster so long after his initial investment. 
Mr N has suggested this to be a Ponzi scheme but I have no credible evidence that this was 
the case at the time of Mr Ns payment, or at the time of writing this decision. 
Ive seen some adverse customer reviews about P and I cannot ignore that, while this could 
be seen as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture of P  this is not in 
itself sufficient evidence of fraud. 
I must therefore take into account that theres strong evidence here particularly because 
there is no credible adverse evidence that was published at the material time that P hadnt 
been identified as a fraudulent company when these payments were made.  
Im not persuaded with any degree of certainty that P was operating a scam. So, taking 
everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that P was in fact a fraudulent company.  
As explained previously, Halifaxs duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is 
not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains. But even if Im wrong 
and P were operating fraudulently, Ive thought about what Id reasonably have expected 
Halifax to do in the circumstances at the time Mr P authorised the disputed payment. 
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Halifax should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In my judgement, the disputed payment of £200,000 was very large and ought to have 
prompted further checks by Halifax before it allowed it to be sent. 
If Halifax had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions in private, without any 
third parties present, I think Mr N would have explained what he was doing and that the 
purpose of the payment was to invest. 
In such circumstances, whilst Halifax had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have reasonably asked Mr N some further questions to ascertain whether he was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought carefully about 
the sorts of questions Halifax shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features of investment 
scams at that time. 
At the time Mr N fell victim to the scam, investment scams carried some common features. 
For example, these included rates of return which were too good to be true, receiving the 
opportunity to invest via an unsolicited cold call, with fraudsters often applying pressure to 
their victims to invest quickly.
Against this backdrop Id have expected Halifax to ask Mr N some questions to see if there 
were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). I think Halifax would 
have reasonably asked what it was Mr N was investing in and I think hed have explained he 
was investing in a five-year investment plan involving payday loans in the USA. I think 
Halifax would have reasonably been aware that companies offering these types of products 
werent required to be regulated by the FCA. But I think it would have also acknowledged 
these investments could be high risk, so I think Halifax could have asked how Mr N had 
come across the investment. I think Mr N would have likely explained that the investment 
was recommended by someone he considered to be a financial professional (Derek) who 
hed met through a friend the previous year. I dont think Halifax would have reasonably 
been expected to probe the legitimacy of Derek based on Mr Ns dealings with him. 
Upon receiving this information from Mr N, Im not persuaded Halifax wouldve been 
concerned that Mr N was about to fall victim to an investment scam as there were no 
obvious indicators of what I consider to be well published investment scam typologies at the 
time. I accept the rate of return was higher than what a high street bank wouldve offered, 
but these products do often have higher rates of return and I dont think it was too good to 
be true. I accept the rate of return potentially indicated a high-risk investment, which might 
not have been suitable for Mr N, but as Ive explained, it would not have been Halifaxs role 
to provide him with financial advice. By Mr Ns own admission, he had a history with 
gambling and if Halifax were reasonably aware of this, I think it would have reasonably been 
aware that Mr N was comfortable with taking risks with his finances. 
Even if Mr N did have concerns about investment scams following a conversation with 
Halifax, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont think he would have, I think its more likely 
than not he would have directed them to Derek rather than an independent third party and 
thats because he trusted him. Ive noted that when the interest payments ceased, Mr N 
contacted Derek who reassured him not to worry and that the payment had been delayed. 
Ive further noted that there were several years in between Mr Ns investment and raising his 
concerns with the bank. 
I empathise with the fact Mr N invested significant sums into a product that hasnt gone to 
plan. But this does appear to be a legitimate investment opportunity that has gone wrong, 
rather than an investment scam. 
But given Ive found that its more likely than not an intervention from Halifax wouldnt have 
made a difference and exposed the alleged scam, it is unnecessary for me to go on to 
consider whether Mr N should share any responsibility for the loss he incurred. 
Overall, whilst I agree that Halifax didnt do what it ought to have done by intervening in Mr 
Ns payment towards his investment with P, I dont find that it was the primary cause of his 
loss. In other words, I dont think Halifax could have prevented Mr N from making the 
payments towards his P investment, nor do I think there was any indication that Mr N had 
fallen victim to a fraud or scam at the material time, such that I would make an award against 
Halifax. I know this will be an extremely difficult decision for Mr N to receive.My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ns loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman