DRN-2542163
The complaint
Mr E complains that Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) provided misleading 
information about the Enterprise Investments Scheme (EIS) he invested in.
What happened
Mr E invested £100,000 in March 2015 in Oxford Capitals Infrastructure EIS. The EIS was 
focused on investment in renewable energy projects and other infrastructure assets. 
Mr E made the investment following advice from his financial adviser who is representing 
Mr E in bringing this complaint.
Mr Es funds were spread across three companies with EIS qualifying status. By April 2019, 
Mr Es portfolio was valued at £581.17, not including any associated tax reliefs. 
Mr E complains that:
Oxford Capital presented the EIS as being relatively low risk for investments of this kind, 
but that was misleading. 
The Information Memorandum (IM) said the EIS was invested in real assets, but it was 
actually backed by debt. The document said there might be an occasional need for 
companies to borrow for operational purposes, but such borrowing seems to have been 
part of the investment strategy. 
He wasnt told about any difficulties with his investment until May 2019 and, by that point, 
Oxford Capital had pursued a strategy which made things worse rather than giving 
investors the opportunity to minimise their losses. 
Oxford Capital have said, in summary: 
EIS investments are always high risk. The risks and potential for loss were clearly set out 
for Mr E in the IM before he invested. 
The use of leverage as part of the investment strategy was clearly described in the IM.
They have managed the EIS as set out in the IM. They provided regular reports to 
investors and so Mr E should have been aware of the challenges the EIS companies 
were facing and how they were responding to them. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oxford Capital were not responsible for giving advice to Mr E about his investment. So, it 
wasnt for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS were suitable for 
him. 
Oxford Capital were responsible for providing information to Mr E, and his adviser, about the 
EIS and for managing his investments. The IM gave Oxford Capital the mandate to make 
decisions on behalf of Mr E and so Oxford Capital had to ensure their actions were in line 
with the strategy set out in that document.  
In this decision Ive therefore looked at whether the information Oxford Capital provided to 
Mr E and his adviser was clear, fair and not misleading. Ive also considered whether Oxford 
Capital managed Mr Es investments in line with the mandate given by the IM.
Risk
Mr E says Oxford Capital portrayed the fund as being relatively low risk for an EIS because it 
was invested in real assets. 
There were references to risk in the Important Notice on page 2 of the IM. It said:
The Oxford Capital Infrastructure EIS will invest in unquoted securities. Such 
investments can be more risky than investments in quoted securities or shares and 
market-makers may not be prepared to deal in them. Unquoted securities may be 
subject to transfer restrictions and may be difficult to sell. It may be difficult to obtain 
information as to how much an investment is worth or how risky it is at any given 
time. Investing in private companies may expose you to a significant risk of losing all 
the money invested.
 
The final paragraph of the notice described investing in the EIS as speculative and involves 
a significant degree of risk. It then drew attention to the section of the document about risk 
factors.
The relevant section of the IM (pages 16-18) described a range of risks that the EIS carried. 
It said the investments were subject to the kind of operational and financing risks associated 
with infrastructure assets. The EIS companies were at different stages of maturity and so 
subject to development risks. The investments could also be exposed to other management 
and tax risks. 
Under the heading risks to capital it said:
You should only consider subscribing if you are able to bear the risk of losing your 
entire investment.
It is possible that we may not achieve our targeted returns when the investments are 
sold, or that one or more of the companies in your portfolio may fail, resulting in your 
shares being sold for substantially less than their original cost, or returning no value 
at all.
I think the IM explained clearly the risks of the EIS and the potential for capital loss. An EIS 
is generally a high risk investment and Im satisfied Oxford Capital made that clear in the IM.
The IM said a core principle of the fund was that investments should be asset backed. 
That helped to explain the funds investment strategy, but I dont think it was intended to 
indicate it was necessarily lower risk than other EIS investments. Use of debt
Mr E thinks Oxford Capital provided misleading information about the use of debt by 
investee companies. He says it was mentioned that companies might occasionally borrow 
for operational purposes, but its clear that borrowing was part of Oxford Capitals strategy. 
He thinks the investments were backed by debt and not real assets as promoted.
As Ive already noted, the IM explained that one of the core principles of the of the fund was 
that investments should be asset-backed. It said: we only subscribe for shares in 
companies which own and operate real assets. 
Oxford Capital say that due to the limit on EIS funding that a company might receive, 
companies which operate larger projects may require additional finance. They have said 
that, while the IM was not expected to go into great detail about the types of finance 
structure that would be used, the use of debt was clearly described. The loans taken were in 
line with competitive market rates and the decision to borrow was made by the boards of the 
EIS companies following due diligence and financial modelling.
The part of the IM that is in dispute is in the section on investment risks, under the heading 
operational and financing risks. That section includes the following:
Investee companies may occasionally use debt or other types of finance to service 
their short and medium term operational needs.
The Oxford Capital Infrastructure EIS does not take on long-term bank debt. 
However, debt or other types of finance may be considered by investee companies 
for short- and medium-term financing needs.
Oxford Capital have said the above text clearly refers to two different types of debt. 
The reference to occasionally related to debt for short and medium term operational needs 
 for example, if operating funds were insufficient to pay an unexpected bill. Oxford Capital 
have said the use of such debt by investee companies was very occasional.
The second type of debt described was for financing needs. Oxford Capital say this 
included debt for construction and other capital finance, not day to day borrowing. And they 
have said fewer than half the investee companies in the fund used debt for capital outlay.
The text Ive quoted above is in the section of the IM that described the operational and 
financing risks to investors. Neither that section nor the IM as a whole are intended to 
provide a detailed description of the EIS companies financial strategy. But I think it was 
made sufficiently clear that debt may be used for financing needs. And I dont think that was 
inconsistent with the fund overall being invested in infrastructure assets, or real assets.
I dont think Oxford Capital acted unfairly or unreasonably by wording the IM in the way they 
did. And I think the level of detail provided on this point was appropriate to an IM document.
From what Ive seen, it appears that under half of the investee companies used debt for their 
short and medium term financing needs. I think thats consistent with the IM saying that debt 
may be considered.
Mr E has complained that all three of the companies he was invested in used debt in that 
way, so all his funds were exposed to the same risk. He says the three companies (and 
others in the fund) failed due to being unable to service their debts or obtain borrowing to 
carry out their investment strategy. The process for allocating individual investors funds to investee companies was set out in 
the IM. It said the timing of an investors subscription would determine the assets into which 
their capital would be invested. Oxford Capital would aim to invest an individuals funds in 
more than one company to diversify but it was possible that the companies may be in the 
same sector or in certain circumstances that funds may invested in just one company.
Mr Es funds were invested in three different companies, in line with the process described in 
the IM. The fact that each of the companies later used debt for their financing needs does 
not mean Oxford Capital did anything wrong when they allocated Mr Es funds. Oxford 
Capital had no operational control over the companies. And as Ive already concluded, 
I think the use of debt for financing was one of the risks explained to investors in the IM.
I note too that Oxford Capital have said the companies didnt fail because they were unable 
to service their debt or raise borrowing. They failed because of the realisation of several key 
risks, particularly legislative change and the withdrawal of revenue streams, and operational 
challenges. The failure to service their debts was a symptom of their difficulties not the 
cause of their failure.
Keeping investors updated and response to difficulties
Mr E has complained he wasnt informed of the investee companies difficulties until 2019. 
He also says the legislative changes that affected the companies were first proposed in 2016 
so Oxford Capital could have withdrawn from the affected projects at that stage. Instead they 
pursued a strategy that made things worse. 
Oxford Capital provided investors with annual reports on the EIS. Ive seen a copy of the 
reports produced in 2017 and 2018, which would have been sent to Mr E. The reports 
explain the challenges facing each of the markets the EIS companies were operating in and 
how the companies were responding to those challenges. Although the reports werent 
intended to provide a detailed analysis of each company, I think it should have been clear to 
Mr E how developments in the market were affecting the companies he was invested in. 
When Mr E invested in the EIS he agreed that Oxford Capital would manage the fund on the 
terms set out in the investment management agreement. In effect Oxford Capital provided 
an investment management service and had a mandate to make investment decisions on 
behalf of investors. The IM explained how the fund would be governed, how decisions would 
be made and how the risks would be managed. It explained that investors capital would 
generally be tied up for a minimum of four years, after which Oxford Capital would look to 
realise the gains from them.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Oxford Capital managed Mr Es investments in line with the 
mandate given in the IM and reported to Mr E as required. 
Summary
Id like to reassure Mr E that Ive looked carefully at everything hes said, including on points 
he said he didnt want to pursue after our investigators view. 
Im satisfied the IM explained how the EIS would work and was sufficiently clear on the level 
of risk to investors. I think Oxford Capital made decisions in line with the mandate set out in 
their agreement with Mr E. I can understand why Mr E feels strongly about what has 
happened to his investment, but I dont think I can fairly hold Oxford Capital responsible for 
his losses. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr E, but I wont be upholding his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint 
against Oxford Capital Partners LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman