DRN-3083353
The complaint
Ms A complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), who declined her claim under her 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms A obtained the services of a contractor to replace her drive and carry out works to her 
garden. She paid the contractor a total of £5900 in cash. After she had made the payment, 
she realised that the work carried out wasnt satisfactory as the contractor had removed a 
drainage system (that had previously been installed incorrectly) and caused damage to the 
driveway. 
Ms A contacted the contractor and was told that this was all that could be done, given the 
price paid for the work.  Ms A instructed a solicitor to attempt to recover her losses, but this 
was unsuccessful. Following this, Ms A reported the matter to Aviva to make a claim for 
malicious damage and later reported it to the police who gave her a crime reference number.
Aviva declined the claim as it said that the incident didnt fall under any insured peril and was 
due to poor workmanship. Ms A wasnt happy with this outcome and referred a complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt think that what had happened amounted to malicious damage. So, he concluded that 
Aviva had fairly declined the claim. 
Aviva accepted his view, Ms A did not. Ms A reiterated that the damage caused was 
malicious and that the contractor also committed theft, so she wanted a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that Ms A will be disappointed 
with this outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Ms As policy entitled her to be returned into the position she wouldve been in had her 
property not been damaged. Effectively this would mean that Aviva could settle Ms As claim 
by making a realistic offer. But Aviva would only be liable for the damage or loss caused by 
an unforeseen event. Which is often referred to as an insured peril and is specified in the 
policy. 
Aviva declined the claim based on the information Ms A provided to it. And my role is to 
determine whether Aviva reached a fair and reasonable decision, and whether the damage 
and theft caused was because of an insured peril. 
Ms A said the damage and theft are claimable under the malicious damage peril in her 
policy. Ive looked at both parties views about this and thought about the evidence of the 
malicious damage and theft required to show liability for this claim. 
Ms A said her contractor deliberately caused damage and stole her property. Ive seen 
photos of the damage provided by Ms A. Ive also reviewed what Ms A told Aviva, as well as 
the solicitors letter Ms A obtained.
Generally, we consider malicious damage to be malicious if the person who damaged the 
property intended to do harm. If the property was damaged accidentally, through neglect or 
poor maintenance, we wouldnt usually consider this to be malicious. 
Ms A said she instructed her contractor to carry out work on her property. During which, she 
expressed concern about the way it looked and the mess caused. Despite this, Ms A said 
that she agreed with the contractor that he would carry out further work, which she would 
pay additionally for. 
Aviva said that the work carried out, amounted to poor workmanship rather than malicious 
damage. It said that Ms A reported that her contractor hadnt installed the drive and the drain 
properly.
Ms A provided photos of the work and the legal letter she obtained, in support of her 
complaint. But, having reviewed the letter, it repeatedly gives details of the poor quality of 
work carried out by her contractor. In addition, the policy terms exclude cover for damage 
caused by poor workmanship, as well as damage caused by building alterations or 
renovations. 
Consequently, I dont think Ms A has provided any evidence to show that the damage was 
caused maliciously. The work that was being carried out amounted to a renovation and Ms A 
despite having reservations about the quality of her contractors work, allowed the contractor 
to continue. Therefore, I think that the only reasonable conclusion to draw from this is that 
the damage she claimed for,  was unlikely to have resulted from an insured peril.
Aviva explained the reasons why it wasnt liable for Ms As costs, and Im satisfied that those 
reasons and the decision it reached were reasonable and fair, based on the evidence 
provided. I also think Avivas decision to decline Ms As claim was consistent with the terms 
of her policy and was fair in all the circumstances.
I understand that Ms A believes that Aviva should settle her claim for malicious damage, but 
I dont think shes met her obligation to show the claim falls under this insured peril. So, I 
cant reasonably ask Aviva to settle Ms As claim and I wont be asking it to resolve this 
complaint further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman