DRN-3840848
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service provided by UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) 
when she asked about changing the details of her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M had a motor insurance policy with Churchill. She was recorded as the main driver 
and registered keeper of the vehicle. Her twin brother was recorded on the policy as an 
additional driver. In June 2022 Miss M used WhatsApp to ask Churchill how she could 
change the registered keeper of her vehicle on her policy. She said she wanted to put her 
brother as the main driver and registered keeper. And add herself as an additional driver. 
The conversation wasnt clear and Miss M said she understood from what she was told that 
her policy wouldnt change if she made the changes she outlined. So, she changed the 
registered keeper of the vehicle into her brothers name a few days after the WhatsApp 
conversation. But then found she would have to pay about £1,000 more to insure the vehicle 
in his name. So, she complained to Churchill as she thought it should take responsibility for 
the information it had given her.
Churchill partly upheld the complaint. It said it had given Miss M the correct information 
about the cover it was able to provide. But accepted there was some miscommunication 
later in the conversation. It apologised and said it would pay £50 for the inconvenience 
caused. Miss M wasnt happy with this outcome. She said shed followed Churchills advice 
and that had resulted in her having to pay increased premiums on the car. She also said she 
couldnt use the £50 Churchill had agreed to pay as it was in her older brothers name and 
not hers. 
Our investigator thought Churchill should do more to resolve matters. He said Churchill 
should pay Miss M £100 for the distress caused by its miscommunication. And for the further 
distress it had caused for paying the £50 it had offered to a third party. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators view but said she didnt want to challenge it. She 
said she had since renewed her insurance with another provider. Churchill didnt accept the 
investigators view. It said Miss Ms policy was never changed or cancelled so there was no 
financial loss or any real inconvenience. And it said Miss Ms older brother was acting as her 
representative on her complaint, which is why it had sent the payment to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very carefully at the conversation Miss M had with Churchill and I think its worth 
outlining some of that here. Miss M explained that she wanted to put her brother as the main 
driver and registered keeper. And add herself as an additional driver. Churchills agent said 
they couldnt provide a quote due to the change in ownership and said the car can be 
registered to her parents, with a leasing company, a spouse or partner. They said it cannot 
be covered if registered to a relatives name. And she would need to transfer the ownership 
in your name. Miss M said that was fine and asked if she would need to do this via DVLA or 
on the website, and whether the insurance would be done again or continue as normal for 
now. The agent said it would continue as normal and said they would update the notes that 
she would be transferring the ownership in her name. And added, Yes  please contact 
DVLA. Miss M queried that response as she said she was not transferring the ownership 
into her name and wanted to transfer it into her brothers name. She said she would contact 
DVLA. And the agent replied, Yes  you can do that. Miss M thanked the agent for their 
help and the conversation ended.
Churchill has accepted the conversation was confusing. While it thought the agent had 
initially made Churchills position clear, it recognised they hadnt done enough to confirm its 
position towards the end of the conversation when matters became more confused. It felt the 
agent should have re-confirmed and re-clarified its position that it couldnt offer cover if the 
ownership was transferred to Miss Ms brother. And it thought more should have been done 
to ensure Miss M didnt contact DVLA without knowing Churchill wouldnt be able to offer the 
cover they wanted.
I think thats a fair assessment of the conversation. Miss M made it clear what she wanted 
and explained what she was intending to do with the information she was given. Theres no 
dispute she was given a confusing answer and I think its fair to say Churchill missed 
opportunities to clarify the position. 
Churchill has noted that it was Miss Ms brother who contacted it by WhatsApp, not Miss M. 
Her brothers confirmed that when they spoke to Churchill. But I dont think that has a bearing 
on this complaint. The agent wasnt aware of that when he was responding to the WhatsApp 
questions, and I dont think it would be fair to use it as an excuse for the lack of clarity in the 
conversation.  
So, I agree with both parties that the communication was poor, and I can understand why 
Miss M might have left the conversation thinking she could change the registered keeper 
and it wouldnt affect her policy. But what was the actual impact on Miss M?
Churchill has said Miss Ms policy was never changed or cancelled after the WhatsApp 
conversation, so there was no change in the premium. And Miss M has told us she chose 
not to renew her policy and instead took insurance with another provider at a much lower 
premium that she thought was a very reasonable price. So, I agree with Churchill that theres 
been no financial loss. 
Churchill has also said that, as the complaint was raised by Miss Ms older brother, it 
followed its own process by paying him the compensation rather than Miss M. I find that a 
little strange as Miss M was the policy holder (and Churchills customer) and her brother was 
simply representing her. So, I would have thought it more appropriate to pay Miss M for the 
inconvenience she was caused rather than her brother. But complaints handling isnt an 
activity that falls within the remit of this service, so I wont comment any further on that issue.
Putting things right
Despite there being no financial loss, Miss M has suffered a certain amount of worry and 
inconvenience due to Churchills poor communication. She changed the registered keeper of 
her vehicle into her brothers name on the basis of the conversation shed had with Churchill. 
And then found out she would have to pay a lot more than she was otherwise led to believe. 
Its clear from the telephone calls Miss M and her brothers made to Churchill that they were 
upset by the situation. I think its right that Churchill recognise that upset by paying 
compensation. And I think a payment of £100 would be a fair and reasonable amount in all 
the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited 
trading as Churchill to pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman