DRN-3856241
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc registered a default on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr D had a credit card account with Capital One for over ten years. He says that in late 2019 
and early 2020, he missed some payments due to personal issues as well as the COVID-19 
pandemic. However, he says he tried to contact Capital One to set up repayment plans and 
he didnt feel Capital One did enough to offer him alternative options when he was struggling 
financially. 
Capital One says that Mr D cancelled his direct debit in September 2019 and said he would 
pay the balance in full the following week. However he did not make any payments in 
October or November 2019. In December, he contacted Capital One to set up a six-month 
repayment plan, however they say he did not make the first payment meaning the plan was 
broken. A new six-month plan was set up in January instead and while Mr D did pay the first 
payment, he did not pay any of the other installments. 
Capital One have said that they sent Mr D a number of letters between January and May 
2020 with no response from him. As a result, they defaulted the account on 27 May 2020. 
Mr D referred the complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt 
that Capital One had acted reasonably when it recorded the missed payments on Mr Ds 
credit file. They also felt that Capital One had reached out to Mr D several times prior to 
applying the default, but as they did not receive a response from Mr D it was reasonable that 
they applied the default.
Mr D disagreed with the outcome. He felt some of the information was inaccurate as he did 
not think hed paid his credit card with a direct debit so did not agree he had cancelled a 
direct debit. And he gave reasons as to why he had missed his payments in early 2020.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. And I dont think 
Capital One needs to remove the default. Ill explain why in more detail. 
It should be noted that in 2020, a Covid-related payment deferral was introduced based on 
guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority to support borrowers directly impacted 
by the pandemic. It meant no payments needed to be made on products and no adverse 
information would be reported to the CRAs. However, this was only available for consumers 
who were not in arrears at the start of the scheme. As Mr D was in arrears prior to the 
scheme being available, he was not eligible, and I havent considered this further. 
Capital One have provided the contact notes for the account which show Mr D contacted 
them in September 2019 to explain he had cancelled the direct debit and would be paying 
the balance the following week. Looking at the statements for the account, I can see that the 
next three payments were missed. 
Mr D has disputed this as he says there was no direct debit on the account and he did not 
have the funds to pay the balance in full so would not have said he would. Looking at the 
statements, I can see that prior to September 2019 the monthly amount due had been paid 
by direct debit for many months, so Im satisfied Mr D did pay by direct debit. And more 
importantly, despite Mr Ds recollection not matching with the evidence, the statements do 
show that the October, November and December 2019 payments were missed.  
During this time, Capital One sent Mr D notices of the sums in arrears by letter, to make him 
aware of the arrears accruing on the account and gave him contact details for him to use to 
set up a repayment plan. And this is in line with what I would have expected them to do in 
the circumstances. I can see that Mr D did contact Capital One in mid-December in order to 
set up a repayment plan, which they agreed to. This was a six-month plan.
The first instalment of the repayment plan was due on 5 January 2020, however Mr D 
missed this and so the repayment plan was broken. Mr D disputes this as he has said he set 
up the repayment plan in December and paid it in January  so did not break the December 
plan. However, looking at the letters sent to Mr D, the first payment for the plan was due on 
5 January, however there was no payment in 2020 prior to 5 January, meaning Mr D missed 
the first installment. 
Capital One has provided me with a second letter that was sent to Mr D confirming a second 
repayment plan had been set up on 8 January and was due to run for six months. Mr D paid 
the first installment of this on 15 January 2020. Considering everything available to me, Im 
satisfied Mr D broke the first repayment plan and had to set up a second one. 
Looking at the statements provided, I can see no further instalments in the repayment plan 
were paid by Mr D. I appreciate that he has given us reasons as to why he missed them and 
its not in doubt that he was under considerable stress at the time. However, Capital One is 
required to give an accurate representation of the management of the account when 
reporting to credit referencing agencies, which is what they have done in Mr Ds case. 
Capital One sent Mr D several letters from January 2020 onwards informing him of the 
arrears that were accruing on the account and giving him the details of who to contact to set 
up a new repayment plan. They gave clear warnings for when his card would be suspended, 
when a default would be applied if he did not repay the arrears or set up a repayment plan, 
as well as a default notice prior to applying the default. 
These were all sent to the address Mr D has provided as part of his complaint, so Im 
satisfied they were sent to the correct address. I appreciate Mr D has said he would have 
preferred e-mail, but I still think Capital One have made reasonable efforts to contact him. In 
May 2020, Mr D had missed six credit card payments and as he had not contacted Capital 
One, despite many letters from them, I think it was reasonable that they applied a default to the account at that stage. Because of this, I do no instruct Capital One to remove the default 
from Mr Ds credit file. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman