DRN-1529709
The complaint
Mr L complains that the navigation system in a car supplied with finance from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited ("BMWFS") doesn't work as he expected. He says the 
finance agreement was mis-sold.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire-purchase 
agreement with BMWFS.
Mr L says that prior to entering into the agreement he told the salesperson that he wanted all 
the extras he'd had on his old car, including live traffic updates for the satellite navigation 
system.
Mr L says he was told by the salesperson that the car had the same satellite navigation 
system as his old car. He later discovered that he was unable to receive live traffic updates.
Mr L returned the car to the supplying dealer, who advised him that in order to receive live 
traffic updates he needed to connect his mobile phone to the satellite navigation system via 
an app. The dealer provided Mr L with instructions on how to do this.
Mr L wasn't happy about this. He feels that the satellite navigation system is useless and 
says that if he'd been told that he needed to connect via his phone he wouldn't have entered 
into the agreement. He thinks the car was misrepresented to him at the point of supply.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He didn't feel there was enough evidence to 
show that the salesperson had misrepresented the car.
Mr L didn't agree. He said the satellite navigation system wasn't even similar to the one on 
his old car, and he'd had to use an alternative device instead. He said he'd asked for live 
traffic information as a feature when he purchased the car and was told that the car had it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to say that there's been a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied that the 
salesperson made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr L into entering the 
agreement and that as a result he's suffered a loss.
In order to decide whether there's been a misrepresentation, I need to look at all the 
available evidence and determine, on the balance of probability, whether Mr L was given 
incorrect or misleading information at the point of supply.
There're no notes available of the discussions which Mr L had with the salesperson. Nor has 
the salesperson provided a statement, although I can see that when the dealership 
responded to Mr L's complaint it said it had spoken to the salesperson who said he didn't recall stating that the navigation system was identical to Mr L's old car. I wasn't present 
when these discussions took place, so I can't be certain of exactly what was said. In these 
circumstances, I have to decide what's most likely to have happened, taking all the relevant 
circumstances into account.
The car supplied to Mr L was a different make and model to his old car. I don't think it's 
reasonable to expect that all the features - including the satellite navigation system - would 
be exactly the same. I don't doubt that Mr L had a discussion with the salesperson about his 
desire for a live traffic information feature. But I don't think its likely that the salesperson 
would have said that the feature operated in exactly the same way as it did in Mr L's old car.
Mr L has said that the salesperson told him that the car had "the same tech" as his old car. I 
don't think this comment, if made, is specific enough to amount to a representation that the 
satellite navigation system would function in exactly the same way as his old car. I think the 
comment is better interpreted as the salesman confirming that the car had live traffic 
information available. I'm unable to say that this was an untrue statement because there 
is  live traffic information available, albeit slightly different to the one on Mr L's old car.
I appreciate that Mr L wanted and expected exactly the same satellite navigation system. But 
as I've said, I'm not persuaded that the salesman made a statement to this effect. I'm 
satisfied that the car supplied to Mr L does have a  live traffic information feature. Whilst I 
understand that Mr L finds this less convenient to use than in his old car, I haven't seen any 
evidence to suggest that the feature isn't working as intended. So I'm unable to say that the 
car is of unsatisfactory quality.
On balance, and although I understand that Mr L is unhappy with the satellite navigation 
system, I'm not persuaded that there's been a misrepresentation. Mr L's car has live traffic 
information, which is what he asked for. I don't think there's enough evidence to show that 
the salesperson said something so specific about the satellite navigation system to amount 
to it being an untrue statement of fact.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman