DRN-3376695
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that WorldPay Limited wont refund it for a transaction that 
was made using one of their card terminals which they did not authorise.
Miss D along with Mr W, a director of L, represent L in its complaint.
What happened
At 3:55am on 7 March 2018 a refund of £2,000 was processed using a card terminal issued 
to L as part of their payment processing agreement with WorldPay. 
WorldPays transaction monitoring team reviewed the refund after it was made and had 
concerns about its legitimacy, but also Ls conduct given that its trading pattern had reduced. 
WorldPay issued a notice to terminate the agreement with immediate effect on 9 March 
2018.
Miss D and Mr W contacted WorldPay on 15 March 2018 to advise that the transaction was 
fraudulently processed by a manager employed by L. The refund was made to their personal 
debit card and had no relation to any previous payment made by, or owed to, him. Though 
the manager had authority to use the card terminals on behalf of L, Miss D and Mr W say he 
didnt have Ls authority to process this refund.
WorldPay investigated the matter and decided that L was liable for the disputed refund. 
WorldPay pointed to its terms and conditions, which it says confirm that users are fully 
responsible for any fraudulent or unauthorised use of their terminals.
Miss D and Mr W did not agree with WorldPays decision and referred Ls complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. When bringing the complaint to our service, Miss D and 
Mr W argued that the refund was unauthorised and shouldve been subject to further checks 
prior to its release. Miss D and Mr W also felt that the refund shouldnt have been processed 
because it had no corresponding incoming card payment, which the terms and conditions 
specifically exclude. Miss D and Mr W believe the large value of the refund and the time of 
day it was processed made it highly suspicious. 
One of our Investigators considered the matter and thought that WorldPay had dealt with the 
complaint correctly. She said that the refund was technically authorised because it was 
made by someone that L had agreed could use its payment tools. She also felt that the 
refund was not suspicious enough in and of itself for WorldPay to have intervened. She 
didnt uphold the complaint on that basis.
Miss D and Mr W did not accept the Investigators position. They still felt WorldPays 
systems and algorithms shouldve detected that a refund was being made to a card not 
previously used for payment and prevented it from debiting Ls account. Miss D and Mr W 
have explained during the course of this complaint that their other merchant terminal 
provider had automatically prevented an attempted refund by the manager on the basis that 
there wasnt a corresponding purchase.
Miss D and Mr W also didnt accept WorldPays explanation that refunds are manually 
reviewed if theyre deemed to be suspicious and believe that this should be done by 
computer systems and detected at the time. 
Miss D and Mr W also requested evidence confirming whether WorldPay would have been 
reimbursed for the refund by its insurers. The Investigator advised that its not for us to say 
whether WorldPay should claim on any insurance policy they have in place and, instead, our 
role is to determine whether WorldPay has acted fairly in holding L liable for its loss. 
As Miss D and Mr W remained dissatisfied with the outcome of the Investigators 
assessment, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, such as the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs), the contract L 
has entered into, including the terms and conditions of that agreement and the operating 
instructions, as well as regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
There are two main issues that have impacted this case. The first being whether the refund 
was authorised by L and the second being whether WorldPay shouldve prevented the 
transaction debiting the account. Ill address these points below.
Was the refund authorised by L?
In this case all parties agree that the refund in question was processed by a manager of L for 
their own personal benefit and without the explicit agreement of Miss D and Mr W.
Though this may be the case, this doesnt automatically mean that the transaction is 
unauthorised and it should be refunded. It is possible for Miss D and Mr W to give someone 
else authority to carry out transactions on Ls behalf, so L would still be liable, even if Miss D 
and Mr W didnt physically perform the transaction themselves or give their explicit 
permission for it. WorldPay can hold L liable for any transactions that happened because L 
gave someone authority to act on its behalf. The fact remains that the manager had the 
authority of L to use and operate the card terminals provided to L by WorldPay. By permitting 
the manager to use Ls payment tools, Miss D and Mr W effectively gave the manager the 
status of being Ls agent. I cant see that the manager was given limited or restricted 
authority by L or that there was a process put in place requiring them to obtain the authority 
of Miss D and Mr W prior to processing certain types of transactions. 
From how the situation has been described, its fair to say that the manager had the open 
authority of L to use the card terminal and, on that basis, this means that the refund can be 
treated as authorised for the purposes of the PSRs.
Its clear that the manager abused a position of trust and made this refund to themselves in 
circumstances that had not been agreed. But this doesnt mean that the transaction is 
unauthorised. Providing the manager with the ability to make payments served to, in effect, 
authorise the refund the manager went onto make, even though the manager made a 
transaction that had not been discussed or intended by L. This means that WorldPay can 
treat the disputed transaction as being authorised by L, even though the manager utilised funds for their own personal gain and without Miss D and Mr Ws express knowledge and 
agreement.  
Should WorldPay Limited have prevented the refund being processed?
Miss D and Mr W are concerned that WorldPay did not do enough to protect L and feel it 
should have stopped the transaction in real time, preventing the loss L went on to suffer. 
When reviewing this complaint, Ive already confirmed I take into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. This means I believe, as does the regulator, that WorldPay 
should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, resulting in payment service providers being generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. And that includes micro enterprise customers such as L. 
Its generally considered good industry practice for businesses to have provisions in place to 
ensure the safety and security of their customers. This includes having mechanisms and 
procedures in place to detect any unusual activity on the accounts they operate. From what 
I have seen, WorldPay does have the ability to monitor transactions.
So, bearing the above in mind, I have to consider whether the refund processed was 
unusual enough to have prompted further action from WorldPay prior to allowing the 
payment to debit Ls account. As part of that, Ive considered Ls previous account activity.
In the year leading up to the disputed refund, L processed 16 genuine refunds. This shows 
that processing a refund using WorldPays terminal isnt an unusual activity for L to partake 
in, in and of itself.
Ive then thought about the value of the refund and whether this should have caused concern 
at the time the transaction was being made. Of the 16 genuine refunds processed by L 
leading up to the disputed refund, the highest value refund was £228. Whilst the disputed 
refund of £2,000 exhibits an increase when compared to the typical amount refunded by L, 
I dont think that the increase is so significant that it presents itself to WorldPay as a clear 
and obvious risk that L is at risk of falling victim to fraudulent behaviour.  
Ive also balanced the value of the incoming payments L processed using WorldPays card 
terminal in the year leading up to the disputed refund against the individual value of it. 
I can see that, on average, L processed payments of over £20,000 per month using 
WorldPays card terminal in the year leading up to the disputed refund. This demonstrates 
that the refund was not of a significant value in comparison to Ls typical monthly income via 
card payments. 
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded that the disputed refund was out of 
character and unusual enough so that WorldPay ought to have intervened at the time. There 
is a delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and 
it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a payment service provider to check each 
one. I dont think this transaction should have aroused suspicion that L was being taken 
advantage of, or that WorldPay missed clear indicators that L was at risk of financial harm. 
Miss D and Mr W believe the transaction shouldve flagged as suspicious because it did not 
correspond with a genuine payment that had previously been made. The terms and conditions of the card terminal agreement that L entered into explain that the 
responsibility and liability for ensuring that the correct card and amount are being used when 
processing a refund is placed on the user.
Section 4.1.5 of WorldPay Limiteds Customer Operating Instructions state:
When you process a refund on a card transaction, the amount of the refund is returned to 
the customers card account and a corresponding debit will be made to your nominated bank 
account. If the refund facility is used where there is no corresponding originating transaction, 
this is not classed as a refund and does not fall within the terms of your contract. This is a 
breach of your contract for which you will be responsible.
WorldPay has confirmed that refunds will not be declined by their systems on the basis that 
there is no corresponding purchase. Im also satisfied that it isnt a requirement for a refund 
to correspond with a previous payment in order for it to be successfully processed by 
WorldPays payment systems.
I can see from the evidence provided that the refund was reviewed by an employee of 
WorldPay on 9 March 2018 as its systems flagged it for further investigation as it was 
processed to a card which had no corresponding purchase.
WorldPay explained that the transaction didnt flag sooner as the process for identifying 
refunds without a corresponding purchase is not done in real time. Further to this, refunds 
are not automatically placed on hold pending further review by WorldPay on the basis that 
they were made without a corresponding purchase. 
I appreciate Ls other merchant terminal provider prevented an attempted refund by the 
manager in real time and I have thought about whether it would be good industry practice to 
say that any attempt to put through a refund without a link to a corresponding purchase 
should not be processed. But I also have to bear in mind that there are genuine 
circumstances in which customers may require a refund to be processed to a card that 
wasnt used for a purchase, such as if the previous card had been replaced or expired. 
Because of this, I wouldnt be able to fairly say that WorldPay should automatically prohibit 
refunds made to a card which doesnt have a corresponding purchase. I dont think its 
unreasonable for WorldPay to decide to investigate refunds on a case by case basis. In most 
instances, a refund to a replacement card from the same bank that links back to the same 
underlying bank account would not be a cause for concern. 
Furthermore, Im not a regulator and Im unable to make the rules that a business must 
follow in their day to day operations. This means Im not in a position to compel WorldPay to 
change its systems so they automatically prohibit any refunds where there is no 
corresponding purchase. I can only comment on whether I think the business has acted fairly 
by following the procedures and policies that were in place at the time of the event 
complained about. Having carefully considered the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think I can fairly criticise WorldPay for processing the disputed refund. 
I realise Miss D and Mr W will be disappointed by this, especially against the backdrop 
that Ls other merchant services provider did prevent an attempted refund.
I have considerable sympathy for what Miss D and Mr W have been through. This situation 
wouldve undoubtedly come as a shock to them given that the refund was made by someone 
they trusted and it has caused their business to incur a loss. 
I have considered whether WorldPay can fairly be held liable for Ls loss. But, for the 
reasons stated above, I cant say that WorldPay acted incorrectly. I think WorldPay can fairly 
treat the disputed refund as being authorised by L. Im also not persuaded that WorldPays transaction monitoring systems failed in this instance. This means there is no basis on which 
I could fairly say WorldPay must take responsibility for Ls loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman