DRN-4017968
The complaint
Mr G complains about delays when transferring some of his investments to Financial 
Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) from another provider.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr G contacted Fidelity to start the process of moving his investments to them 
from another provider. Mr G had two accounts he wanted to transfer: an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) and a General Investment Account (GIA). 
The transfers took longer than expected and Mr G complained to Fidelity. Once the transfers 
had been completed they made an offer of £1,218.59 for delays with the ISA but didnt offer 
any financial compensation for the GIA. Fidelity also acknowledged the poor service 
provided overall so offered £600 as way of an apology. 
Mr G didnt accept the offer saying the financial loss was higher and brought his complaint to 
our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought the way in which Fidelity 
had calculated the offer for the ISA wasnt right. Fidelity had offered 8% interest on the ISA 
for the time where they accepted fault for the delays. Our Investigator thought a fairer a way 
of offering compensation would be to consider a benchmark indicator to see how the 
investment wouldve performed if it wasnt for the delays. Fidelity agreed to this and 
increased the compensation for the ISA £2,199.
The offer available was now £2,199 for the ISA and £600 for the customer service which our 
Investigator thought was fair. Mr G didnt agree to the offer saying there had been numerous 
mistakes and that he was open to proposals of over £13,000. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has provided a lot of information about his complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr G that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of this service, and no discourtesy is intended.
Fidelity and our Investigator both gave quite some detail about what happened. And since 
those facts arent really in dispute theres no need for me to repeat them again here. Ive 
concentrated on the offer Fidelity have made to put things right. 
Looking at the ISA I think the offer of £2,199 is a fair and reasonable way of putting things 
right. The offer is calculated using the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index. 
Whilst we could never be totally sure what might have happened this index reflects a mix of 
different investment types and a risk rating for an investor who wanted a higher return and 
was willing to take a risk. Im satisfied this matches Mr G and his investments and is 
calculated over the time that the investments were out of the market.  
About the GIA Fidelity didnt offer any compensation for the delays. Our Investigator looked 
at the evidence and said the three funds had risen in value during the timeframe of the 
delays so didnt think Mr G had lost out. An considering all the evidence I agree that no 
financial compensation is due. I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the delays 
caused a financial loss with the GIA. 
Fidelity have offered £600 as an apology for the customer service Mr G received and I think 
this is fair. Ive considered the length of time things went on, the amount of contact Mr G had 
to make to move things along, his concerns about what was happening, incorrect information 
he was given, and the overall inconvenience. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the offer made is a fair 
and reasonable way of putting things right. 
Putting things right
Fidelity should pay Mr G £2,199 as financial compensation for delays transferring the ISA.
They should also pay Mr G £600 for poor customer service received.
My final decision
Financial Administration Services Limited has made an offer to pay £2,199 for the financial 
loss as well as £600 for the inconvenience caused and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay the 
compensation as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman