DRN-1678395
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society (trading as Staffordshire Building Society) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1994, Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. Its unclear exactly when, 
but Nationwide also sold them PPI to designed to protect their monthly repayments if they 
couldnt work because of disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, so 
the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ws comments about the choices they were, or werent, 
given during the sale. But Im mindful that the PPI was sold more than 25 years ago  in my 
view making it less likely theyd be able to accurately recall any discussions that might have 
taken place at the time.
Neither partys been able to provide much by way of paperwork from the sale. And thats not 
surprising considering how much times passed both since then and since the mortgage 
ended and the PPI was cancelled.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration at the lack of evidence supporting Nationwides 
position. But, equally, there just isnt enough evidence to support what Mr and Mrs W say 
either. In the absence of any persuasive evidence to show otherwise, I see no reason to 
consider that Mr and Mrs W werent aware of the PPI at the time or that they didnt choose to 
take it out knowing it was optional.
From experience of how it sold PPI generally, and from the available information, I dont 
consider it likely that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. That still meant 
Nationwide had to give them clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI, so that 
they could make a properly informed choice about whether to take it.
There might have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs W the information 
it should have done. But that, in itself, isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. Id also 
need to find that any failings made a difference to their decision to take the PPI. Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont think better information would have put them 
off taking out the PPI. I say that because, for example:
From experience of what the key features of the policy were likely to have been, it 
seems Mr and Mrs W would have been eligible for the PPI if it was sold in 1994. And 
it doesnt look as though theyd have been significantly affected by its main 
exclusions or limitations. 
Mr and Mrs W say they were entitled to full sick pay for up to six months. But the PPI 
benefits would have been paid on top of that and for up to 12 months per claim. It 
covered them for unemployment too. If they had any other means available to them 
the PPI would have allowed them to use those means towards covering their other 
living costs if they werent working. So, I think theyd have found the extra security 
the PPI gave them to be useful, especially as it helped protect borrowing secured 
against their home.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs W would have found the PPI premium 
(based on the monthly benefit) unaffordable. And, if Mr and Mrs W had decided they 
didnt want the PPI anymore, they could have cancelled it at any time and at no extra 
cost.
 
Overall, I dont believe Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of how Nationwide sold them 
the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman