DRN-3389809
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected her claim against it under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Ms C bought solar panels for her home in February 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms 
C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Ms Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. Initially, Ikano made an offer to 
settle Ms Cs complaint, which he endorsed. But Ikano withdrew this offer and provided 
additional information, which our adjudicator considered. Having done so, he didnt think the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer. Hed seen the point of sale 
documentation and he was satisfied that the information included within this shouldve made 
it reasonably clear to Ms C that the benefits of the panels wouldnt cover the costs of her 
interest-free credit loan agreement. So, although he recognised Ms Cs testimony disputed 
this, he wasnt persuaded Ikano had acted unfairly and because of this, he didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Ms C didnt agree, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
adjudicator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Ms C. I recognise Ms C feels 
strongly that the solar panels were mis-sold to her. And because of this, shes been 
financially dis-advantaged. But for me to agree, I need to be satisfied, based on the evidence 
available to me, that Ms C was mis-led at the point of sale. So, I need to be satisfied Ms C 
had no reasonable way of knowing the solar panels were not likely to be self-funding. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly.  Immediately above the signature box, in the 
middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated total 1st year benefit and next to that on the 
right it states this would be £392.51. I think this figure is made clear; it is not buried in some 
fine print. To the left it says the finance amount is £5875, with the finance type listed as 
IKANO 120 MO which I think is reasonable to assume relates to the finance agreement Ms 
C signed separately. This document was signed by Ms C immediately below those figures, 
and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information to her 
attention.
The interest of the loan does not appear on this document, and so I can understand why Ms 
C may have overlooked this. However, I think its reasonably clear the yearly cost of the 
finance would come to more than the estimated yearly benefit without the interest 
considered. And even then, Id expect Ms C to have a reasonable understanding of the 
yearly cost of the finance, including the interest. Ive seen that 12 months of the agreed 
monthly repayment would equate to £764.28, which is almost double the estimated yearly 
benefit of the solar panels. So, I think it shouldve been reasonably clear to Ms C that the 
solar panels wouldnt be self-funding on this basis.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Ms C about the benefits and 
costs of the panels. I think it was made reasonably clear that the panels would not be self-
funding during the term of the loan. And so, I dont think Ikano need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
I understand Ms C wont agree with this decision. And I recognise Ms C has made several 
comments surrounding the actual information she was provided in person by the 
salesperson who attended her property. In particular, Ms C has said she didnt receive a 
copy of the documents Ive referred to. But I can see Ms C signed these documents, as Ive 
already highlighted, directly under the crucial cost and benefit information. And I wouldve 
expected Ms C to ensure she received copies of these for her records. If Ms C had any 
reservations about the conduct of the salesperson, or the agreement she was entering, I 
wouldve expected Ms C to ensure she fully understood and had available to her the 
documents she was signing. So, this doesnt alter my decision on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about Ikano Bank AB (publ).
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman