DRN-3378619
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined a
transaction and didnt notify them of it, causing them a financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2022 detailing my intention to 
not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, I said:
Please note for ease Ill refer to Mr M throughout this decision as he has been the primary
complainant.
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
On 1 April 2021, Mr M attempted to make a debit card payment of £60,000 to an 
account he holds with an investment management company  Ill refer to this as 
Company V. This payment was to utilise his unused tax allowances for the last three 
years.
The payment was declined by NatWest as it exceeded the single transaction limit, 
but Mr M says he wasnt notified of the declination by NatWest.
Company V informed him the transaction had been declined by NatWest, but this 
was after the tax year-end deadline.
On 15 April 2021, Mr M attempted to make the payment again and it was declined for 
the same reason.
Mr M says he searched the internet and found out that there was a £50,000 single 
transaction limit for NatWest premium account holders. He was then able to pay 
£50,000 on the 1 May 2021  debited on 4 May 2021.
Mr M says the delay in completing this transaction has had financial implications as 
he missed an important tax year-end deadline.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She felt NatWest shouldve communicated the 
declination to Mr M. NatWest didnt agree, Mr M asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that the transaction was declined as a result of the sum Mr M was 
attempting to transfer exceeded the £50,000 limit on the account.
So, I need to determine is if NatWest made an error in not informing Mr M of the declination.
To my knowledge, it is very common for banks to have single transaction limits, and these 
can differ depending on account type and bank. I would consider this to be a widely 
recognised fact. And it isnt unreasonable for the limits to be applied as it is there to protect 
customers from fraud and scams.
Mr M has said the limits are not referred to in the terms and conditions. While the sum limit 
for the account isnt explicitly stated within the terms, through his own admission he was 
easily able to find this information himself online. So, this doesnt change anything. And even 
if I accepted Mr M wasnt aware of the exact limit on the account, Im not persuaded it 
wouldve been reasonable to believe there was no limit at all. I also dont think it is 
unreasonable for customers to check prior to making a large transaction what limits may 
apply.
I also note that on Company Vs website it says under tax year-end payment tips: 
Card payments
 For debit card deposits, please note that your bank is likely to have a daily limit on your 
online card transactions. Please contact your bank first before making a large deposit and 
ask them to increase this limit. Alternatively, make several smaller payments.
From what Ive seen Mr M didnt contact the bank ahead of doing the transaction. I think this 
supports this type of step being a sensible one ahead of a large transfer. 
Ive gone on to look at how the transaction was completed. Mr M has told us he used his 
online banking application to make the payment. He said he had to use his card reader to 
authorise the payment.
But the information I have from the NatWest suggests the transaction was completed as a 
point of sale transaction. This means the transaction was completed online through 
Company Vs website and not on NatWests own platform. While I take into account Mr Ms 
recollection, I find the internal data NatWest has provided to be more persuasive.
Our investigator relied on section 2 of the terms and conditions Giving us your instructions 
and in particular term 2.2 delaying or refusing to act on your instructions, where it says if we 
dont follow one of your instructions well usually tell you [bold my emphasis]. It doesnt 
mean it has to tell Mr M.
The type of payment Mr M was trying to complete is known as a point of sale transaction and 
these can be done in person or online. This means under the card scheme rules that the 
merchant (Company V) has the responsibility to inform the cardholder that the transaction 
was declined. This would be the same if Mr M was in a shop or restaurant and the card was 
declined, the cardholder wouldnt be informed of a declined payment by way of a call or 
email from the bank. Its the merchant who has the responsibility to inform the cardholder.
I appreciate Mr M feels the bank has a duty of care to inform him of a declined payment and 
especially as it was a large sum. But this isnt something the bank is obligated to do in these 
circumstances. So, Im not persuaded it made a mistake by not doing so.
I appreciate Mr M says he didnt know the transaction had failed, as he said the transaction 
was showing as pending and his balance had been reduced when he checked on his online 
banking application. I can see Mr M accessed his online banking just a few minutes after 
completing the transaction. The NatWest balance online includes pending transactions  this 
isnt an error because although the transaction had been declined, the merchant has options 
to rectify this. It can choose to try and capture the transaction by trying to get verbal 
authorisation if it obtains that then it can manually put the payment through again. Whetherthis happened or not is not the responsibility of NatWest.
I also dont know what exactly Mr M saw on Company Vs website when he attempted to 
make payment, but again, this is between him and Company V, not NatWest. Mr M says it 
wasnt until 6 or 7 April that Company V informed him of the declined transaction. By this 
stage Mr M had already passed the end of the tax year, however as Ive said above, Im not 
persuaded NatWest was at fault for this.
NatWest has also shown us that Mr M didnt access his online banking again until the 12 
April which wouldve shown him the transaction hadnt been processed. I can see Mr M 
attempted to make the payment again on 15 April and it was declined for the same reason. 
Mr M then complained to NatWest. I think NatWest couldve been clearer in its response to 
Mr Ms complaint. I say this as it didnt address Mr Ms complaint point as to why he wasnt 
notified of the declination and refers to why the transaction was being declined. But overall, 
Im not persuaded that NatWest made an error by not informing Mr M of the declination. So, I 
dont intend to direct it to do anything else.
Responses to Provisional Decision
NatWest had no further comments to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr M in summary has said he doesnt feel I have addressed his key contention. In that when 
he checked his online banking after making the transaction his balance had been reduced by 
£60,000 although he acknowledges that there is an icon next to this which refers to pending 
payments/transfers. Mr M has said a pending transaction is one that is imminent, not 
decided, or pending until processed and payment transferred. Mr M says the payment wasnt 
pending at all and this is a fundamental point as the bank had declined the transaction and it 
wasnt subject to any further decision making, it was not imminent and would not be 
processed. As such Mr M believes it should not have been shown as a balance reduction 
and thinks the banks information online was incorrect and misleading. He feels the bank 
should have rejected the payment and sent some form of notification.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ms depth of feeling about his complaint and Ive fully considered his 
points. With regards to not receiving a notification of the declination Ive explained within my 
provisional decision why Im not persuaded NatWest made an error. 
I also explained why I didnt think the payment showing as pending just a few minutes after 
doing the transaction was incorrect as I said there were actions the merchant couldve taken 
to allow this payment to go through but whether this happened or not isnt the responsibility 
of NatWest. So, Mr Ms comments havent changed my mind.
Taking everything into account Im still not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman