DRN-2311785
The complaint
Mrs B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have unfairly declined her 
Buildings Insurance claim. 
She also complains RSA have caused delays in dealing with her claim.
All references to RSA include their agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mrs B reported the appearance of a sink hole at her property in May 2019.  
RSA initially said in August 2019 they believed the cause of the sinkhole to be linked to 
previous issues and work carried out on a different sinkhole in 2016. 
Work was planned to carry out repairs to correct the suspected issues in October 2019. But 
this diagnosis was found to be incorrect when further tests were carried out.
RSA then instructed further inspections to be carried out to identify the cause of the issue, 
and in December 2019 a specialist inspected the damage and RSAs previous findings. They 
said they believed the 2019 sink hole was not connected to drainage or issues relating to 
work on the 2016 sinkhole. They said they believed the sink holes were caused by the 
collapse of voids within the ground beneath the driveway  and these were likely caused by 
long term settlement and/or erosion of the ground.
Following their findings, RSA declined Mrs Bs claim in January 2020. They said as the main 
home hadnt been damaged, the driveway would be excluded from cover relating to 
subsidence. They said they had also considered Mrs Bs claim under the accidental damage 
and escape of water sections of the policy, but as the specialist said the issues were caused 
by gradual deterioration, it was excluded from cover.
Mrs B had raised formal complaints with RSA. She was unhappy with RSAs decision to 
decline her claim, and the time taken for them to reach a decision. Mrs B paid to have the 
repairs done herself following this but is unhappy as she couldve done this earlier if it hadnt 
been for RSAs delay. Mrs B was unhappy with RSAs response, so she brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said RSA had applied the policy exclusions fairly when declining Mrs Bs 
claim. But he said the incorrect diagnosis had caused avoidable delays to the progress of 
her claim.
He recommended we uphold Mrs Bs claim and that RSA pay Mrs B £250 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator. She said she didnt believe the policy exclusions 
applied to her driveway and she didnt agree the amount of compensation recommended 
was fair.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs B has strong views about what happened, Ive read and considered 
carefully everything she has provided. But I hope Mrs B wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs B and 
by RSA to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case.
Were RSA fair to decline claim?
The policy says it covers Subsidence of the site on which the buildings stand or of land 
belonging to the buildings. It also says it excludes damage to areas such as drives, walls, 
fences and gates unless your home is damaged by the same cause and at the same time. 
Mrs B says the driveway is an integral part of the structure of the home and forms part of the 
foundations, so is not a driveway in the conventional sense. So, this means the exclusion 
ciited above doesnt apply. 
I appreciate Mrs Bs comments. But shes said herself this is the point of access to the main 
property and she has had to park her car at a neighbours house due to it not being in use. 
So as one of its main purposes seems to be to enter and exit the property, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA to conclude this was a driveway. Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me the main home was damaged, so I dont think RSA were unfair to apply the 
exclusion.
RSA also considered Mrs Bs claim to see if it would be covered under other sections of the 
policy, which I would expect them to do. I can see RSA considered whether it was covered 
by water escaping from tanks, apparatus or pipes or by accidental damage. 
In December 2019 RSA hired a specialist to inspect all the findings and provide an opinion 
on the cause of the sinkholes. They concluded the cause of the voids were most probably 
caused by long term settlement or erosion of the ground beneath the driveway. The policy 
says it doesnt cover for the cost of gradual deterioration, so based on the specialists 
findings they declined Mrs Bs claim.  Its not unreasonable for RSA to rely on the opinion of 
experts and Ive not seen anything that persuades of any other cause. So, I dont think RSA 
were unfair to rely on the findings of the specialist to decline Mrs Bs claim.
Delays 
RSA accepted there were avoidable delays and I do think there were times where they could 
have acted more quickly, Ive considered the impact this had on Mrs B.
Notes provided by RSA show they told Mrs B in August 2018 her claim had been accepted. 
But it was later established in October 2018 the initial diagnosis of the issue causing the 
sinkhole was incorrect and further inspections needed to be carried out. So, I think this incorrect diagnosis caused an unnecessary delay to the progress of the claim  and 
ultimately, Mrs B getting her driveway repaired and in use again. 
Putting things right
Mrs B has told us of inconvenience of not being able to use her drive had on her and to be 
told the claim had been accepted and then to find out it wasnt wouldve no doubt been very 
disappointing to her. 
I realise Mrs B is unhappy with the amount of compensation recommended by the 
investigator as she doesnt think it goes far enough to recognise the impact this matter had 
on her.  But, taking everything into consideration I think an award of £250 compensation is 
fair and it reasonably reflects the inconvenience she has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mrs Bs case.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Mrs B £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman