DRN-1500603
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that MYJAR Limited gave her loans that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
Miss B took out five short term loans with MYJAR. MYJAR hasnt provided any information 
about the repayment frequency for Loans 1 to 4. Loan 5 was repayable by three monthly 
repayments but hasnt been repaid. Miss Bs loan history is as follows:-
Loan 
number Date of Loan Loan amount Repayment date 
1. 3/10/2012 £300 30/10/2012
2. 5/11/2012 £300 1/12/2012
3. 28/11/2012 £400 27/12/2012
4. 28/12/2012 £500 31/1/2013
5. 6/8/2019 £100 Unpaid
 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint about Loan 4 should be upheld. He said 
that by Loan 4, Miss B had shown signs that she was struggling to repay some of her 
previous loans with MYJAR. For example, Miss B had applied for four loans of increasing 
amounts in very quick succession with little or no breaks after repaying a previous loan. He 
said that this strongly suggested Miss B was unable to repay the loans without borrowing 
again. In these circumstances, he thought there was a significant risk Miss B wouldve been 
unable to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan  and any subsequent loans. 
MYJAR responded to say that the increased checks detailed in its business file were 
proportionate. In addition, Miss B repaid Loan 4 and then didnt need to borrow for six years 
indicating that the loan was affordable and sustainable. MYJAR also said that due to the lack 
of information in the adjudication, it wasnt certain its data had been considered.
The adjudicator responded to say that hed taken all of the information MYJAR and Miss B 
had sent him into account. He said that Miss B's indebtedness to MYJAR was increasing 
steadily and significantly throughout the first sequence of loans, all of which were obtained in 
successive months and within only a few days of each other. He also noted that the 
repayment Miss B appeared to have made to repay Loan 4 required a significant proportion 
of her income. MYJAR responded to say that it wished an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When MYJAR lent Loans 1 to 4 to Miss B the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
The ILG contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
When MYJAR lent Loan 5 to Miss B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
ILG and CONC contained similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure    Miss 
B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG and later CONC defined sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
I noted from Miss Bs bank statements that shed appeared to have received another loan 
from MYJAR before Loan 1. I asked the adjudicator to ask Miss B for more information about 
this loan and any other loans shed received from MYJAR and whether shed included this 
loan in her complaint to MYJAR. As weve not received a response from Miss B, Ive just 
dealt with the five loans shown in the table above in my complaint.
MYJAR said that it had asked Miss B for her income and monthly housing costs and it used 
internal credit scoring before Loans 1 to 4. But we havent received any details about these 
from MYJAR. The lender also said that at the time there was no specific requirement to carry 
out credit reference agency checks. 
Before Loan 5, MYJAR asked Miss B for her monthly income and expenses. I note from 
MYJARs records that it had details of Miss Bs income which was around £2,100 and details 
about her other monthly expenses of around £900. 
I also note that MYJAR carried out a credit check before Loan 5 and have seen a summary 
of this which I will refer to below.
Ive seen a credit report Miss B provided on another complaint with this service which covers 
the period before Loans 1 to 4. But Ive not seen anything on this report which I think might 
have caused additional concerns to MYJAR. 
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. And this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by MYJARs credit checks and Miss Bs actual 
situation.
Ive thought about whether MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. I note that for 
Loans 1 and 2, Miss B needed to pay £403.20 to repay each of them. MYJAR hasnt 
provided any information about Miss Bs income and regular expenses. It said that it would 
have asked for income and housing expenses at the time. I can see from Miss Bs bank 
statements that her monthly income was £2,169 and £3,078 respectively before Loans 1 and 
2. I think MYJAR would have found out similar information in its checks. I think the 
repayments on Loans 1 and 2 were relatively moderate compared to Miss Bs income and I 
dont think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 and 2 were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Miss B financial difficulty.
So, given Miss Bs repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 2 and that these were her first loans 
with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I 
dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Miss B.
Loan 3 was taken out on the day Miss B repaid Loan 2. The loan amount and loan 
repayment had increased significantly. It appears from Miss Bs bank statement that her 
monthly income had substantially decreased, and the repayment amount was a significant 
proportion of her income. I appreciate that MYJAR had asked Miss B for her income and 
housing costs. But I think the pattern and increasing amount of her borrowing were such that 
it wasnt reasonable for MYJAR to have relied on that information by the time of Loan 3. So, I think it should have taken steps at that time to independently verify Miss Bs true financial 
position. 
Ive carefully looked at Miss Bs bank statements for the month before Loan 3 to see what 
better checks would have shown MYJAR. Ive seen what appears to be one other short term 
loan with repayments of £60 on Miss Bs bank statements which was repayable at the same 
time as Loan 3. So, I cant safely say that if MYJAR had carried out proportionate checks 
before Loan 3, it wouldve seen that Miss B couldnt sustainably repay Loan 3. So, I cant say 
that MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 3 to Miss B.
I note that Miss B took out Loan 4 four days after repaying Loan 3. This was the third time 
that Miss B had taken a new loan shortly after repaying a previous one. I think the repeated 
swift reborrowing might have caused MYJAR some concerns about Miss Bs finances. I think 
that might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was facing problems 
managing their money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis. So, Ive taken it 
into account when looking at whether MYJAR should have given Loan 4 to Miss B. I note 
that the loan amount for Loan 4 had increased to £500. The loan repayment was around 
£726 which was a significant proportion of Miss Bs monthly income. So, I think there was a 
risk that Miss B would have found it difficult to repay the repayment amount. And overall, as 
a responsible lender, I dont think that MYJAR should have given Loan 4 to Miss B.
Miss B took out Loan 5 more than six and a half years after repaying Loan 4. Given the 
length of time between Miss Bs previous loan closing and her applying for Loan 5, I think its 
fair that MYJAR again treated Miss B as a new customer.
The monthly repayment on Loan 5 was around £48 to be repaid by three monthly 
repayments. Miss B had declared an income of £2,100 and expenses of around £900. 
MYJARs credit checks showed that Miss B hadnt opened any credit accounts in the 
previous three months. 
I think that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing Loan 5 were proportionate. The amounts 
that Miss B needed to repay were relatively modest compared with the disposable income 
shed declared. So, given Miss Bs repayment amounts and what was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show Loan 5 was unsustainable. So, I 
dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 5 to Miss B.
So, Im upholding this complaint in part in relation to Loan 4 and MYJAR should put things 
right as shown below. It appears from the information provided by MYJAR that there may be 
a balance outstanding on Loan 5. So, Ive drafted my redress to reflect this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited to take the following steps:
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 5 it should buy this back if its able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, 
fees and charges on Loan 4.B) MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) If there is still an outstanding balance on Loan 5, then the amounts calculated in A and 
B should be used to repay any balance remaining on Loan 5. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss B. If there is no 
outstanding balance on Loan 5, then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" should be repaid 
to Miss B.
D) MYJAR should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Bs credit file in 
relation to Loan 4.
 
*HMRC requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. If Miss B asks MYJAR for a 
certificate showing how much tax MYJAR has taken off, it should provide this. If MYJAR 
intends to use the refunds to reduce an amount Miss B owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman