DRN-3685859
The complaint
Mr A complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c (MetLife) wont meet a claim hes made for his 
injured shoulder.
What happened
Mr A has an insurance policy that provides him with cash benefits in certain circumstances  
particularly if hes injured in an accident. Mr A had an accident at work in 2019. He injured 
his shoulder, and went to hospital to have it assessed. He was advised to take pain killers  
and his GP advised the same thing a couple of weeks later. Eventually Mr A had a shoulder 
operation  which took place in Poland, as he couldnt get the treatment he needed in the 
UK.
Since the operation Mr A has continued to have pain and cant move his shoulder through a 
full range of movements. He made a claim to MetLife in 2021 for both his hospital stay and 
permanent loss of use for his shoulder.
MetLife said it wouldnt pay the claim for an overnight stay in hospital as the hospital wasnt 
in the UK. And it said, after commissioning an independent medical report, there wasnt 
enough evidence to show Mr As ongoing problems met the policy definition of total and 
permanent loss of use.
Mr A complained about this but MetLife didnt change its stance. So he asked us to review 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think MetLife had acted unfairly. She said she thought it was 
reasonable for MetLife to rely on the report from its specialist and that Mr As reports didnt 
outweigh this.
Mr A doesnt think thats right. He since shared new information about his condition, which 
we sent to MetLife for comment. MetLife says this doesnt affect its stance  so Ive been 
asked to review and decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. There are two parts to 
Mr As complaint and Ill deal with them separately.
Claim for overnight stay in hospital
Part of Mr As claim was that he should be paid a cash benefit for the period of time he was 
in hospital. MetLife said it wouldnt pay this as Mr As treatment wasnt in the UK. Ive looked 
at the terms and conditions and they do say that theres no hospitalisation benefit if a non-
UK hospital is used. This is made clear under the heading What is not covered in the 
policy. I think MetLife has fairly applied this term.
Total and permanent loss of function
Mr A has made a claim for the total and permanent loss of use of his shoulder as a result of 
the accident in 2019. His policy covers him for the permanent loss of use of his shoulder if 
that occurs within 12 months of the accident.
Mr A is clearly still having ongoing problems with his shoulder. He says a report from an 
osteopath says hes lost the use of his shoulder permanently  and that this should be 
enough for MetLife to meet his claim.
I cant say whether Mr As condition is permanent, as Im not qualified to do that. I can only 
say whether I think its fair for MetLife to rely on the medical reports it commissioned when 
deciding whether it needed to meet Mr As claim, or if the reports submitted by Mr A are 
more persuasive.
There have been several medical reports provided, both by Mr A and MetLife. Whilst Ive 
considered them all, Im only going to comment on the ones which are key to MetLifes 
refusal to meet Mr As claim.
There appear to be some discrepancies between earlier reports. One, from April 2021 says 
that Mr A has lost some degree of movement in his shoulder  but that this could well 
improve with treatment. By July 2021, despite Mr A receiving some treatment, an osteopath 
said Mr As condition had deteriorated, and that the damage was total, permanent and 
irrecoverable.
That does seem to be a wide difference in a short period of time, so I dont think its unfair for 
MetLife to ask for an independent medical review of Mr As condition. That was in March 
2022. Mr A has said recently that he doesnt think the doctor he saw was an expert in his 
sort of injury. But he saw a consultant that specialises in trauma and is an orthopaedic 
surgeon  so he appears to be appropriately qualified to assess Mr As injuries.
This consultant says, in summary, that Mr A is suffering from unexpected loss of movement 
and pain, as hed expect a man of his age to make a full recovery following the shoulder 
surgery he had. Hes recommended some further investigation into the cause of Mr As 
ongoing problems, and said that it was difficult to say if the loss of use was permanent 
without the results of the investigation. MetLife relayed this information to Mr As GP shortly 
afterwards. Mr A says hes had no follow up tests or treatment since then and no-one has 
contacted him. But Mr A did have the letter from MetLife and knew his GP had been sent the 
results of the assessment. I think Mr A has had time to consult a GP about his ongoing 
problems, and that he could have arranged this if hed so wished. I appreciate he prefers to 
use a private GP and his financial circumstances may have made that difficult. But, given 
how important the use of his shoulder is on his quality of life I would expect Mr A to have 
done this  he could have used NHS services to get help if necessary. I think its fair for 
MetLife to expect the recommended tests and treatment to take place before his loss of use 
is deemed to be permanent. 
Mr A recently sent us some information that shows hes successfully applied for a personal 
independence payment (PIP) based on his problems with his arm. 
MetLife points out that the terms and conditions in its policy are not equivalent to the 
questions asked in order to be awarded a PIP, and I agree with this. So, overall, the fact that 
Mr A has been successful in applying for a PIP doesnt mean MetLife must meet his claim.
At the moment I think MetLife has done enough, and its for Mr A to follow up on the 
treatment. If this doesnt help Id expect MetLife to arrange for Mr A to see the consultant again.
Other points
MetLife recently told us that Mr A has made a further claim om his policy  for total 
permanent disablement. It sent us a medical report it had received that covered both Mr As 
shoulder but also other problems hes had since the accident.
In order to conclude this complaint  which is about loss of use of Mr As shoulder, I think its 
fair to reach my decision on that claim without considering any fresh information. MetLife 
agrees with this approach. Mr A asked that we allow him time to get a further medical report 
on his shoulder. Mr A has had many months to do that, so I dont think I can defer this 
decision now. If Mr A does obtain a further report within a reasonable timescale  which Id 
say would be within three months of the date of this decision  Id expect MetLife to review 
the claim with the benefit of the new information.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman