DRN-3119529
Complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly provided him with an 
overdraft which it then increased the limit for.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC shouldnt have 
increased Mr Ps overdraft in March 2016 as it ought to have realised that he couldnt 
sustainably repay the additional funds advanced. Despite asking for and having eventually 
been provided with additional time to respond, HSBC didnt provide a substantive response 
to our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ps complaint.
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr P 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In my view, HSBC appears to have placed limited weight on Mr Ps account conduct in the 
period leading up to the March 2016 overdraft limit increase. I say this because Mr Ps limit 
was increased to an amount which exceeded his monthly salary even though he was moving 
further and further away from reaching a credit balance and had clearly demonstrated an 
inability to remain within his previous limit increases. 
In these circumstances, HSBC ought reasonably to have concluded that Mr P was unlikely to 
be able to repay what he owed without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. 
Ive seen what HSBC has said about Mr P reducing his limit further down the line. But this 
was a result of him borrowing further and this clearly isnt indicative of him being able to 
sustainably repay what he owed.
As this is the case, I think that HSBC treated Mr P unfairly when it increased his overdraft 
limit in March 2016. Mr P has paid or is being expected to pay additional interest and 
charges on credit he shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So I think that he 
lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that it needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Rework Mr Ps overdraft balance to ensure that all additional interest, fees and 
charges as a result of the limit increases from March 2016 onwards are removed. 
In other words, HSBC should rework Mr Ps account balance to ensure that 
interest is only ever charged on the first £700 of any overdraft balance from 
March 2016 onwards; and 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on Mr Ps account once these adjustments 
have been made HSBC should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ps 
credit file, it should backdate this to March 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Ps complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman