DRN-3756713
The complaint
Mrs G has a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited (Westerby). Mrs G transferred monies from three existing pension arrangements 
into the SIPP and the transferred monies were then invested in holdings that havent 
performed as well as hoped.
Mrs G has complained about her SIPP and says that shes unhappy with Westerby and that 
it should have completed more checks.
What happened
Westerby has been represented by solicitors for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and the solicitors representing Westerby have made submissions on behalf of 
Westerby at various times. For simplicity, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, whether the 
submissions came directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) is a financial advisor firm based in Portugal. In December 
2013, Abana passported into the UK on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) branch 
passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 12 
March 2013 to 29 December 2015. This means that during those dates, Abana was an EEA-
authorised firm and permitted to carry out some regulated activities in the UK.
A Westerby SIPP application form was signed on 9 January 2014. Section 9 of the 
application says Do you have a financial advisor?. This was answered yes and the details 
of Mr F of Abana were added. It was also instructed that an initial fee of 3% of the switched 
value should be paid to Abana. It was noted in the application form that pension monies 
worth a little under £60,000 in total were to be transferred in from three existing pension 
plans.
An application form for an investment platform called ePortfolio Solutions, distributed in the 
UK by a business called Asset Management International (AMI), was also completed. This 
recorded the financial advisor as being Abana. Mr F, as a financial advisor with Abana, 
signed a declaration on the application form on 9 January 2014, the application form was 
signed by Mrs G on the same date. It was also signed by Westerby, as trustees of Mrs Gs 
SIPP, in February 2014. Some of the money placed on the ePortfolio Solutions platform was 
to be invested in the Kijani Commodity Fund (the Kijani Fund), some in the Swiss Asset 
Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF), and some in the International Money Market Fund, all 
of which were based in Mauritius.
Tax-free cash payment of just over £15,000 was paid to Mrs G in May 2014.
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mrs G about her investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard 
assets. It explained that the funds might be higher risk than Mrs G originally considered. Its 
letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission (MFSC) had issued 
enforcement orders against companies under which both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds 
were cells.
It explained that non-standard assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only 
permitted such assets where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated 
financial advisor or where the investor was a High Net Worth/Sophisticated or Elective 
Professional Investor. It further explained that the investments might be higher risk than Mrs 
G originally considered, and it was therefore imperative that Mrs G discuss this with her 
financial advisor.
Westerby strongly urged Mrs G to contact her regulated financial advisor, and it provided the 
details for Mr F and Mr G of Abana, and asked Mrs G to confirm whether she wanted to 
continue to hold the investments or for Westerby to attempt to sell them. Mrs G signed a 
form on 13 November 2014 to confirm that shed sought financial advice and wished to 
retain her investments in the funds. The adviser details on the form were left blank. But
Mrs G has since confirmed that she sought advice from Mr F before completing this form.
On 23 June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mrs G providing an update on the Kijani Fund. The 
letter reminded Mrs G that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds were now considered non-standard 
assets and explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had taken 
the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it hadnt been able to 
ascertain who made the statement originally.
Some investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not received 
any money.
The advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Mrs B, not Mr F) had become 
directly authorised with the FCA under a new firm  Abana (FS) Ltd.
Abana customers were in the process of being novated (moved over) to Abana FS 
Ltd.
Again it strongly urged Mrs G to contact her regulated financial advisor, (referring, I 
assume, to Abana (FS) Ltd). It didnt however ask Mrs G to confirm whether she 
wanted to continue to hold the investments on this occasion.
On 26 June 2015, Mrs G called Westerby as she was concerned about its recent letter 
and wanted more information about what she should do. The call note suggests 
Westerby told Mrs G that it couldnt give her advice. Mrs G explained that she had tried to 
call Mr F of Abana but he hadnt got back to her. Mrs G asked if it was possible to take 
funds from the AMI account and Westerby confirmed it was but that it could take up to 90 
days. Mrs G said she would take the weekend to think about it.
On 29 June 2015, Mrs G called Westerby again. The call notes say she felt misinformed 
as she wasnt aware her investments were high risk. She said she felt the best way forward was to take her money out of the portfolio. Westerby said it would send her the 
relevant forms for her to complete, which it did the same day.
Mrs G has provided a copy of the redemption form she returned. It was noted on the form 
that she wanted to redeem all liquid funds as soon as possible and all illiquid funds as and 
when it was possible to do so. I note Westerby said in its final response letter that Mrs 
Gs redemption form was sent to ePortolio in July 2015.
Westerby then wrote to Mrs G again on 17 July 2015. Although a copy of this letter has 
not been provided on Mrs Gs case, Ive seen a copy on another complaint this service 
has considered. This letter explained that the licence of the administrator of the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform had been suspended by the MFSC. The letter also explained to Mrs G 
that other funds held within her SIPP had also been suspended, including the SAMAIF. It 
was explained towards the end of the letter that:
we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent financial 
adviser who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware 
that as detailed in our accompanying letter Abana FS Limited are not deemed 
to be suitably independent.
In the accompanying letter Westerby explained that Abana customers werent, in fact, 
being novated to Abana (FS) Ltd. Westerby said it understood the reason for this was that 
Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice on Mrs 
Gs SIPP. Westerby urged Mrs G to have her SIPP reviewed immediately by an 
independent financial advisor (IFA) with the necessary permissions. It also said if Mrs G 
had any queries about its letter, she should address them to a Mr G of Abana and it 
provided Mr Gs contact details.
On 27 July 2015, Mrs G wrote to Westerby to complain about the Kijani Fund and Mr F. 
Westerby forwarded this complaint to Abana as it said Mr F had not been employed by 
Westerby.
On 28 July 2015, Westerby wrote to Mrs G, providing an update on her portfolio. It confirmed 
the overall value was just under £48,000, with just under £43,700 in suspended funds. The 
letter confirmed these values had been provided by ePortfolio Solutions.
Theres then a letter from Westerby to Mrs G dated 10 September 2015, in which 
Westerby explains that trading on the ePortfolio Solutions platform was suspended 
pending the appointment of new management and reconciliation of funds. This letter also 
stated that the Kijani Fund was suspended, the SAMAIF was suspended, the International 
Money Market Fund was suspended and that the TCA Global Fund could not be accessed 
due to the suspension of the ePortfolio Solutions platform pending appointment of new 
management. Regarding the Kijani Fund the letter also explains that there remains a high 
degree of uncertainty about the return of funds to investors and that it could take a number 
of years for matters to be dealt with completely.
On 23 December 2015 Westerby wrote to Mrs G again. While a copy of this letter has 
not been provided on Mrs Gs case, Westerby said in its final response letter that it 
advised Mrs G that the ePortfolio Solutions platform was no longer suspended, and that 
it was possible to make redemptions from some of the underlying funds. It confirmed 
that the funds were held in a managed portfolio which had been established by Abana 
LDA, prior to the suspension of the funds. This was split into two separate portfolios by 
ePortfolio Solutions:
Managed Portfolio S represented the suspended funds, and consisted of the 
Kijani Commodity Fund;
Managed Portfolio L represented the liquid funds, and consisted of the SAMAIF 
and another fund, the TCA Global Fund.
Westerby has said that at the time it was expected that the SAMAIF would become liquid in the near future, so it had been included in the liquid funds.
Mrs G called Westerby on 8 March 2016. The call note says Mrs G asked if there had 
been any movement with EPS (which Ive taken to mean ePortfolio Solutions). Mrs G was 
told that some redemptions were coming through. Mrs G said she would like to request 
redemption of her funds so Westerby agreed to send out a redemption form.
Ive also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains 
that the re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and 
suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And in its 6 June 2016 submissions to 
us on a separate complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said:
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are 
currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable 
redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive timescales as yet.
Westerby has previously sought to clarify that the quoted wording above, which is taken 
from a letter Westerby sent to us on 6 June 2016, was given by Abana.
On 24 May 2016, Westerby wrote to Mrs G to confirm that redemption from her liquid 
funds held via the platform had been received in her SIPP bank account. Westerby said 
that, to date, £20,833.01 had been received.
Westerby issued a further letter to Mrs G on 28 May 2021 in respect of the Kinjani fund. 
This said that Investors such as yourself, who did not submit a valid claim prior to the 17th 
March 2015, will be classified as ordinary unredeemed investors and will only be paid a 
redemption amount should there be any surplus funds remaining following the payment of 
liquidation expenses and accepted redemption claims. It is not clear what surplus, if any, 
will be available, and we will therefore continue to assume that your SIPPs investment in 
Kijani has no value.
Prior to the above letter being issued, in July 2018, Mrs G complained to Westerby. 
Westerby issued its final response to the complaint on 19 September 2018. Amongst 
other things, Westerby said:
Mrs G was advised to establish her SIPP by Abana LDA, a regulated firm that 
was authorised to operate within the United Kingdom;
Abana was, and remains, regulated by the Portuguese financial services 
regulator. It was authorised to provide advice within the UK under European 
Economic Area Passporting rules; the Portuguese regulators register showed 
that its passported permissions were for Life (insurance) and Non-Life (non-
insurance, including pensions) business.
Westerby verified that Abana was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to carry out business in the UK. In accordance with its standard 
practice.
Westerby established an Intermediary Terms of Business with Abana; such 
agreements are recognised as good practice by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA).
Westerby accepted the SIPP via Abana in good faith, based on the 
information available to it at the time;
Mrs Gs investments were placed via the ePortfolio Solutions platform, which 
was distributed by AMI. The advice to do so was provided by Abana and Mrs G 
provided an explicit instruction to make these investments;
The investments were made via a regulated platform, into funds that were (at 
that time) daily traded and accessible from a number of other platforms. There were no due diligence checks that could have revealed the underlying 
problems with the funds at that time;
When Westerby became aware of enforcement actions against two of the 
investments it contacted Mrs G to alert her to the fact that they were potentially 
high risk. Mrs G confirmed that she wished to retain these investments;
Had Mrs G chosen to redeem these investments at that time it is likely that she 
would have recovered her funds.
Westerby could not have advised Mrs G to redeem the investments as it 
does not hold the necessary permissions from the FCA to do so;
Once it became possible to redeem a portion of Mrs Gs fund it acted 
diligently by informing her.
Westerby wrote to Mrs G on 23rd December 2015 to advise that the 
ePortfolio Solutions platform was no longer suspended, and that it was 
possible to make redemptions from some of the underlying funds.
A redemption form had already been sent to ePortfolio Solutions in July 2015.
Redemption funds of £20,833.01 were received from Managed Portfolio L on 16 
March 2016, and were paid to Mrs G as Flexi-Access Drawdown income on 6 
March 2017, at her request.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint and said that Westerby ought to have 
identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and make arrangements 
for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to independently 
verify that Abana had the required permissions. And that if Westerby had taken these 
steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the permissions it required to give 
advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, or that it was unable to 
confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. In either event, it wasnt in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry practice for Westerby to 
proceed to accept business from Abana. Our investigator concluded that as Westerby 
shouldnt have accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application from Abana, it was fair and reasonable 
for Westerby to compensate Mrs G for her financial loss.
Following the view the investigator explained to Mrs G that we were proceeding on the 
understanding that the pension plans transferred into the SIPP were defined contribution 
plans without any guarantees attached. The investigator said that if Mrs G thought that 
there were guarantees attached to the plans transferred into her SIPP she should let us 
know and provide us with any evidence she had to demonstrate this was the case. To 
date, the information received from Mrs G doesnt suggest her plans were anything other 
thing other than defined contribution plans without any guarantees attached.
Westerby didnt agree with the investigators view and, amongst other things, it said that:
Section 20 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) provides 
that an authorised person acting without permission doesnt make the 
transaction void or unenforceable, and it doesnt give rise to any right of action 
for breach of statutory duty (save for in limited circumstances). This is the 
opposite approach to someone acting without authorisation (as per section 27 of 
the FSMA).
That primary legislation allows for the voiding of contracts where a party is 
acting without authorisation (section 27), but explicitly removes this provision 
where an authorised party acts outside of their permissions (section 20), 
demonstrates that Parliaments intention was that an authorised party shouldnt 
be held liable for losses flowing from another authorised partys breach of their 
own requirements.It was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations and/or legal obligations (as 
set out in section 20 of the FSMA) to Mrs G to investigate the permissions of 
third-party advisors.
Its previously requested, amongst other things, disclosure of: the details of 
the contact at the FCA with whom this service communicated; records of such 
communications; file notes or attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts 
role at the FCA; whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 
2013; and what the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is 
based upon. Westerby has highlighted in previous submissions to this service 
that its only been provided with the FCAs response thats referred to in the 
published decision and its not received the further disclosure its requested.
Submissions its made havent been fully addressed.
It took all reasonable steps to verify Abanas permissions.
It disagrees that Abana not holding the relevant permissions would have 
been a matter of public record. The FCA could only confirm what was on the 
Register, not what was missing from it. And the FCA cannot provide any 
more information than that which is provided on the Register.
There have been various criticisms of the FCA Register over the years, and it 
may on occasion have contained errors.
Abana had confirmed orally and in writing that it had the necessary permissions 
and it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on this.
It disagrees that the Written Agreement was vague and generic in nature. The 
term permissions encompasses top-up permissions. And its unrealistic to 
consider that any change of wording would have caused Abana to not provide 
the undertaking.
During the changeover from the FSA to the FCA, the FSA allowed a further 
twelve months for firms to alter their paperwork, including agreements, 
letterheads and business cards. The date of the Written Agreement falls 
under this time period.
The investigators view downplays the extent and thoroughness of the due 
diligence it performed. It met with Abanas representatives and obtained 
information from them. Abanas representatives had good technical knowledge 
and confirmed that Abana had the correct permissions.
It was reasonable to rely on the information provided by Abana in writing, 
together with Westerbys meetings with Abana and the due diligence 
performed.
Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA Register and the 
permissions page, the latter was blank.
It checked the Portuguese Register, this explained that Abana was authorised to 
advise on life and non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments 
and pensions.
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Abana was authorised to advise on 
pension products. If Westerby had contacted the Portuguese regulator, it would 
have been told the same.
If it was impossible to verify the permissions through the FCA Register, and 
also a regulatory requirement to reject the business on these grounds, it would make it impossible for an EEA-passported firm to do any business 
other than the default business allowed by their passport regardless of any 
top-up permissions held. This may be construed as favouring local firms by 
the back door and might possibly be unlawful under EU law.
Westerby undertook due diligence before accepting the introductions from 
Abana in accordance with the guidance.
Abana was adamant that it had the correct permissions, presented itself as 
knowledgeable and professional and at no time did it present any reason to 
doubt its credibility.
This service hasnt considered properly the application of COBS 2.4.6R (and 
COBS 2.4.8 G).
Westerby provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FSA and later the 
FCA, those organisations were aware through the reports that Abana was 
introducing business to Westerby. And in 2015 Westerby was in contact with the 
FCA about Abana. On these occasions the FCA didnt raise any issues or 
allegations to Westerby about a breach of Westerbys duties and obligations.
Abanas actions were more serious than any alleged failures by Westerby.
Its important that this service doesnt overlook the gravity of Abanas 
wrongdoing, when considering this complaint against Westerby and the issue 
of apportionment.
Abana has now ceased to trade and it seems that the insolvency of Abana 
(and possibly the lack of insurance cover) has influenced the conclusion that 
Westerby should compensate Mrs G fully for her losses.
In a previous decision, a different ombudsman did deal with the apportionment 
issue where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its 
permissions. The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider 
and the advisor on a 50/50 basis.
It has requested a copy of the details of the outcome of this services 
investigation of Mrs Gs complaint against Abana.
Any complaint against Abana ought to be decided first, or at the same time, 
as the complaint against Westerby.
Abanas clients were offered redress by Abana with the involvement of 
Complete Compliance and Mrs G isnt entitled to be compensated for her 
losses twice.
Had it uncovered that Abana didnt have the relevant permissions, it would 
have declined all business from Abana from the outset, and would never 
have received Mrs Gs application or have been in a position to highlight 
Abanas lack of permissions.
It wouldnt have been at liberty to contact investors directly to tell them why 
their application was refused.
If it had rejected Mrs Gs application, Abana would have re-applied on behalf of 
Mrs G to another SIPP provider that Abana was using and that SIPP provider 
would have accepted the application.
This service needs to give true weighting to the fact that Abanas clients 
trusted its advice.
Having been ordered by the FCA to pay full redress to its client, Abana then refused to do so. Little/nothing was done to enforce awards made against 
Abana for redress to investors on similar complaints before Abana ceased to 
trade. Losses caused by the apparent failings of other authorities shouldnt rest 
with Westerby.
Following its November 2014 letter, any investor would have sought 
independent financial advice or made some reasonable enquiries.
Mrs Gs 17 November 2014 instruction to retain her funds, re-
confirmed her acceptance of the risk of the loss of her funds which has 
now materialised.
Mrs G made no contact with Westerby following their December 2015 letter, 
however it is acknowledged that she had already submitted a redemption form 
in July 2015. This was processed once it became possible to redeem funds and 
£20,833.01 (approximately half of the investment) was returned to the SIPP 
bank account in March 2016. This was held in cash pending instructions from 
Mrs G, before being paid to her in May 2017 as pension income.
The redemption sought and received supports the view that if Mrs G had 
responded to Westerbys November 2014 letter above it is highly likely she 
would have been able to recover 100% of her funds.
The investigators view fails to take proper account of Mrs Gs failure to 
mitigate her losses.
Further investigations ought to be made with Mrs G as to what steps she did 
take to mitigate her losses, as no/little action is insufficient to discharge her duty 
to mitigate.
It has since come to light that Abana was actively calling clients to encourage 
them to stay in the funds. Whether or not there was a reference in Westerbys 
letter in November 2014 to Mrs G to seek advice from Abana is therefore an 
irrelevant point and had no bearing on the outcome as Mrs G would have 
reverted to her existing adviser, regardless of the reference to Abana in 
Westerbys letter.
By concluding that it wasnt reasonable for Mrs G to take some action after its 
letters, this service is effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for 
any subsequent losses irrespective of the duty on Mrs G to mitigate her losses.
The application form for the SIPP would have been downloaded by Abana and 
completed by it with Mrs G. Only after this was it sent to Westerby and 
processed in January 2014.
Originally, Abana put its clients into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds directly.
Later on, Mr F of Abana made arrangements (without Westerbys authority) for 
the funds to be placed into the EPS Managed Fund  a Special Purpose 
Vehicle (SPV) which essentially acted as a fund of funds, comprised of the 
Kijani, SAMAIF and the TCA Global funds.
When ePortfolio Solutions started trading again, they split the funds into two 
portfolios  Managed Portfolio S containing the Kijani Fund, and Managed 
Portfolio L containing SAMAIF and TCA Global funds (S standing for 
Suspended, and L for Liquid).
SAMAIF was included in Portfolio L as it was expected to begin trading again. 
Redemptions from this fund were made by the managers selling TCA Global  
hence they were able to make redemptions initially, but TCA Global was 
ultimately depleted (it had effectively been used to subsidise the early redemption requests in the expectation that SAMAIF would begin trading again 
 a decision by the SPV managers that Westerby had no control over).
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
As I mentioned above, we issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys 
acceptance of a SIPP application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision).
That final decision has been published on our website under DRN7770418.
That decision relates to Abana and features the same key point  namely the permissions 
held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and 
Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions 
on that case and some of its recent submissions on this case are made with reference to 
the published decision.
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into 
consideration, as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant 
FCA DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which 
should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints.
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review (amongst others) outstanding complaints 
involving Abana  including Mrs Gs  and if it wasnt prepared to change its position after 
taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why 
that was the case. Westerby didnt change its position.
Other submissions from Westerby
Ive carefully considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this 
complaint and others this service has considered. This includes further submissions its 
made following on from the published decision. Amongst other things, Westerby has said:
A number of points raised havent been addressed by this service.
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top-
up permissions appear on the FCA Register and that the FCA confirmed 
that top up permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission 
page and that the FCA understands the same information was available on 
the Register in 2013.
Theres been no disclosure of: the details of the contact at the FCA with whom 
this service communicated; records of such communications; file notes or 
attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the 
FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA 
contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. This service 
should provide full disclosure of this information. Not to do so is procedurally 
unfair.
An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 isnt proof of what 
was actually on the Register at the relevant time.
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Terms of Business 
agreement that Abana had the necessary permissions. Further, it doesnt 
accept that it ought to have been reasonably aware of cause to have 
questioned the accuracy of the statement in the agreement.
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby by the FCA if it wasnt 
already on the Register. But the published decision also says that if Westerby 
had contacted the FCA directly the FCA would have been able to confirm 
Abanas permissions. No information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally.
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. And, in response, 
the FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and that there was no requirement under the 
IMD to display more detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on 
the Register would have been considered confidential information under Section 
348 of the FSMA which prohibits disclosure of this information.
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint 
from the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was 
offering an advisory service. Its unclear how Abanas contractually defined 
role impacts on the scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It 
was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations to investigate the 
permissions of third-party advisors.
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides: Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may 
determine that the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the 
proportion that the Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment and causation.
Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana, in the published 
decision the ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the 
consumer for the full extent of his financial losses.
Abana has ceased trading and closed, as such any indemnity from Abana 
and/or assignment of any action against it would now be worthless.
Complaints made against Abana to this service ought to have been decided 
first, or at least at the same time as complaints against Westerby. This service 
dealing with the complaint against Westerby first has led to the failure to 
address the issue of apportionment.
This service has found against Abana in a number of complaints involving a 
different SIPP operator, and ordered Abana to pay redress yet we havent 
pursued, or invited the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
Westerby has also made a number of other submissions to us previously, some in this 
complaint and others in separate complaints featuring Abana and the same key point  
namely the permissions held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal 
pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. These submissions include that:
GEN 4 Annex 1 states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make details of the 
extent of its permissions clear on request. This shows that the FCA directs that 
the firm should confirm its permissions. Its Terms of Business provided for such 
a request and effectively formalised this disclosure through a signed agreement.
The FSMA acknowledges that theres a general principle that consumers should 
take responsibility for their decisions, a principle which the FCA should have 
regard to when considering consumer protection. This service is part of the 
consumer protection provisions under the FSMA, it follows that we must similarly 
have regard to this principle. Theres a clear intention in law that consumers 
have a level of responsibility. And this service has issued other decisions which 
take account of a consumers failure to take action to mitigate their losses.Its due diligence wasnt simply a check of the Register. Its Chairman and 
Compliance Oversight was present at several face to face meetings with 
Abana's advisor and Compliance Director. And he was thorough in his "testing" 
of their processes and due diligence.
This culminated in Westerby establishing a legal document  the Terms of 
Business  in which Abana warranted that it had the required permissions to 
introduce the SIPP. Abana therefore effectively "defrauded" it.
Its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This isnt 
something it has done, but its acceptable to the FCA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the Permission page for Abana.
Its been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms 
from the relevant time period. In every case the Permission page simply 
shows "No matches found".
The "Basic Details" page of Abana's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation", but the field was left blank; for UK firms it 
was always completed.
Westerbys argument isnt that there werent other sections of the Register, rather its that 
Abanas permissions couldnt be determined from the Register due to the limited information 
available. In other words, Westerby doesnt accept that, at the relevant time (when the online 
Register was viewed), that there was information regarding permissions available or 
accessible by an online user.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint on 3 November 2023. Mrs G 
responded and confirmed that she didnt have anything further to add. Despite being chased, 
Westerby didnt provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld for the reason Ive 
previously set out. As such, and in the absence of any further comments from either party, 
Ive largely repeated what I said in my provisional decision below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my final decision focuses on what I 
consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. To be clear, the purpose of this decision 
isnt to comment on every individual point or question the parties have made, rather its to 
set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
Mrs G has complained that shes unhappy with Westerby and it should have completed 
more checks.It appears from the content of Westerbys final response letter that Westerby understood Mrs 
Gs complaint to encompass the adequacy of checks it undertook as a SIPP provider when 
accepting her business and on investments made after it had accepted her business. I say 
that because, in responding to Mrs Gs complaint, Westerby sought to clarify to Mrs G some 
of its duties as her SIPP provider. Westerby said that there were no due diligence checks 
that could have revealed the underlying problems with the funds at that time. Westerby also 
referenced some steps it had taken when it became aware of issues with the investments.
And Westerby explained that it had carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting 
business from it, including information about some of those checks.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint 
made to us need not be, and rarely is, made out with the clarity of formal legal pleadings. 
Our service deals with complaints, not causes of action.
Given the general nature of Mrs Gs complaint (she simply says shes unhappy with 
Westerby and it should have completed more checks), in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an inquisitorial approach. And, 
ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether Westerby took reasonable care, acted with 
due diligence and treated Mrs G fairly, in accordance with her best interests. And what I 
think is fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in Mrs Gs complaint is 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to have accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application 
in the first place. So, I need to consider whether Westerby carried out appropriate due 
diligence checks on Abana before deciding to accept Mrs Gs SIPP application from it.
Before I go on to address the merits of the complaint, for completeness, I think its worth 
confirming here that Im satisfied Mrs G referred her complaint within time under the rules 
that apply. The rules I must follow in determining whether we can consider this complaint are 
set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published as part of the FCAs Handbook. In 
particular, DISP 2.8.2.
The section of the rules that applies to this complaint means that, unless Westerby consents, 
we cant look into this complaint if its been brought:
more than six years after the event complained of;
or, if later, more than three years after Mrs G was aware  or ought reasonably to 
have become aware  she had cause for complaint;
Mrs G is complaining about events which took place in 2014. She signed her SIPP 
application form on 9 January 2014 and her complaint was raised with Westerby in 2018. So 
within six years. As such, Im satisfied Mrs G has complained within time under the rules that 
apply.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant 
date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a decision on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mrs Gs case.
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mrs Gs case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
In my view there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the 
issues in Mrs Gs complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP.
The facts of Mr Adams and Mrs Gs cases are also different. I make that point to highlight 
that there are factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mrs Gs case. And I 
need to construe the duties Westerby owed to Mrs G under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the 
specific facts of Mrs Gs case.In the published decision it was noted that in Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted 
that the transaction with Options SIPP proceeded on an execution only basis, i.e. without 
any advice from the business introducing the SIPP application. And the transaction between 
Mrs G and Westerby in this complaint proceeded on the footing that Mrs G was being 
advised by an authorised advisor. Again, I make this point simply to highlight that there are 
factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mrs Gs case.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mrs Gs case, including Westerbys role in the transaction.
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to advise 
Mrs G on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application 
because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required 
permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the 
same thing as advising Mrs G on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP.
So, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mrs Gs case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
 The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs 
can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm 
to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publicationsIn the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and SIPP 
operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for un-authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has 
any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such 
as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said: Due 
diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, 
or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the 
firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, 
and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy 
etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly thought it was 
good practice to do so, at the very least.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that there was a publication 
(the Dear CEO letter) which post-dated the events that took place in relation to Mrs Gs 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice it provided werent good practice at the 
time of the relevant events. Although the later publication was published after the events 
subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the 
obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
In response to the investigators assessment, Westerby stated that s20 of FSMA provides 
that an authorised person acting without permissions doesnt make the transaction void or 
unenforceable and it doesnt give rise to any right of action for breach of statutory duty (save 
in limited circumstances). And that this is the opposite approach to someone acting without 
authorisation, as per s27 of the FSMA. Westerby has said that Parliaments intention was 
that an authorised party shouldnt be held liable for losses flowing from another authorised 
partys breach of their own requirements and that this service shouldnt depart from statute. 
Westerby has also previously submitted that part of the regulatory publications weve 
referred to also appear to directly contradict the intention of legislation.
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s20 and s27 of the 
FSMA. But, to be clear, with regards to the contents of s20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take legal 
action and Im not making a finding here on whether Mrs Gs application is void or 
unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the 
Principles and the publications listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mrs Gs SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due 
skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing.
So taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to 
give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mrs Gs business from it.
Westerby says it carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And 
from what Ive seen I accept that it undertook some checks. However, the question I need to 
consider is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory obligations, 
identified that Abana didnt in fact have the top-up permissions from the FCA it required to 
be giving advice on, and arranging, personal pensions in the UK. And whether Westerby 
should, therefore, not have accepted Mrs Gs application from it.
The regulatory position
Abana, at the time of the transaction, was based in Portugal and was authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes 
(ASF). As Ive mentioned above, Abana held an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 
to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015.
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out other 
work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding such 
contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, in 
particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business from 
January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions policies 
is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by us and are 
subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mrs Gs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2):
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment. It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust 
managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free- standing 
voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It didnt have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mrs Gs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number:
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive2 Activities
2Part II RAO 
ActivitiesPart III RAO 
Investments
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53
and 64Articles 75, 89
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25,
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of a 
claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive.
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mrs Gs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission 
under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being the FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up 
permissions from the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its 
IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found at SUP 13A.7. SUP 
13A.7.1G states (as at January 2014):
If a person established in the EEA:
(1) does not have an EEA right;
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 
G to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 4A 
permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate UK regulator's 
website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting- authorised for the FCA and 
www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or 
where the activity is included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by 
the EEA firm's Home State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under 
Schedules 3, 4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at January 
2014) as:
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance intermediary, 
registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by its Home 
State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market Directive or the 
auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which Ive set out above) was readily 
available in 2014 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights.
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation Ive referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Abana, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore 
have known  or have checked and discovered  that a business based in Portugal that was 
EEA-authorised needed to have top-up permissions to give advice and make 
arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top-up permissions had 
to be granted by the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana required the relevant top-up permissions 
from the FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking.
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it couldnt, 
and shouldnt, reasonably have concluded that Abana didnt have the required top-up 
permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this point.
The Register
Im satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
think its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register entry for 
Abana in the circumstances. And I think its fair and reasonable to say that the checks 
Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas Register entry should have included a review 
of all the relevant information available.
Westerby says it checked Abanas entry on the Register. So, I think its clear that Westerby 
thought it should check the Register, rather than simply asking Abana what permissions it had and then merely relying on what Abana said.
Westerby says that, at the time of Mrs Gs SIPP application, there wasnt information 
available or accessible on the FCA Register that would have shown Abanas permissions 
position. It says that screenshots show that the Register at that time didnt include a 
Passports section, or make any mention of any restrictions on Abana's permissions.
Westerby also believes that the FCA would have been unable to confirm Abanas 
permissions if asked, as this information wasnt available on the then Register.
Ive carefully considered everything Westerbys said about the format of the Register in or 
around 2014, when Mrs Gs application was submitted by Abana.
Westerby has previously submitted that:
WTS [Westerby] searched Abana on the Financial Services register on 10 May 2013 and 
established that they were EEA authorised. Please refer to the enclosed copy screenshot of 
the search dated 10 May 2013. This shows that the search results did not include a 
Passports section, or any mention in the notices or other information sections of any 
restrictions on Abanas permission, which would be usual if there had been any restriction. 
Whilst WTS accept that a present day search includes a Passports section, they dispute 
that a search in May 2013 did, as illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. Acting reasonably, 
WTS could not have found details of the passport permission from a search of the Financial 
Services register at that time.
The following print out from the Register was provided to us:The third-party report on the Register, provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint which was the subject of the published decision, is helpful to discussions about 
the format of the Register at the time of Mrs Gs SIPP application. The report included the 
following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana (Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, Disciplinary History and so on) is a hyperlink to another page of Abanas entry 
on the Register. So, this screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would 
have included, amongst other things, both Permission and Passports pages. And its 
reasonable to conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register, in or 
around the time Mrs Gs SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2014, included 
pages which provided information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation 
to a firms permissions.
Elsewhere in the third-party report it says theres no evidence that in 2013 the Register 
contained any Permissions data relating to Abana that could have been searched by 
Westerby. The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for this conclusion.
Ive carefully reviewed the third-party report. Paragraph 24 only confirms that if the hyperlink 
to the Permission page is clicked, theres no archive of that specific Permission page. In 
my view, the fact this hyperlink yielded nothing when clicked just speaks to the limitations of 
the internet archive in question. So, I dont think paragraph 24 shows that no Permission 
page for Abana existed in 2013. However, I do think that evidence provided elsewhere in the 
third-party report strongly suggests a Permission page did exist for Abana.
Only the Regulators page has been archived for Abanas entry on the Register from 2013. 
But the third-party report provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms 
which were archived, dating from around the time of Mrs Gs SIPP application or earlier. The 
below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Abana, was an 
incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that 
it showed No matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for 
EEA firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded 
was that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows No matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail.
Im satisfied that all of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mrs Gs 
application was received by Westerby, the format of the FCA Register contained a page 
labelled Permission where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, 
where a firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission 
page on their Register entry would simply state No matches found (as there were no 
permissions to display).This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do appear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that it understands the same information was 
available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response to our question 
accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence 
thats available in this case.
Westerby has said, amongst other things, more information should be provided about the 
details of the contact with the FCA. But, Westerby has already been provided with the FCAs 
response to our question. So, Im satisfied that Westerby has had the opportunity to consider 
the response, and that its also had the opportunity to make further submissions to us on this 
point. And Im satisfied that I can fairly determine this complaint now and that Westerby 
doesnt need to be provided with further information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats 
available in this case. So, my decision on this complaint would still be the same without the 
FCAs response to our question.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that:
In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have independently 
checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And 
its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality of Abanas 
Register entry in the circumstances.
The format of the Register in 2013 included a Permission page. And it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register, at the time of Mrs Gs application, would have 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked.
In previous submissions to us, Westerby seemed to suggest that the Basic details page 
was the totality of the Register entry available for Abana at the relevant time. But, as I 
understand it, Westerby now seems to accept that the Register did include other sections. 
But says that, at the relevant time, these sections didnt contain any further information about 
Abanas passports or permissions.
Westerby has been unable to produce evidence to demonstrate that it did in fact check the 
Permission page for Abana before it accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application from it. But even if 
it did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, Westerby appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, the 2013 record of the 
Permission page for Abana hasnt been archived. So, weve no evidence of what specific 
information was available on the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time.
However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there would have been 
a Permission page available on Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously 
failed to contain any information on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (for 
example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank), Westerby ought to have 
taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. So, I dont agree with 
Westerbys submission that information about a firms permissions wasnt available for an 
online user at the time of Mrs Gs application. And, in my view, the third-party report 
submitted by Westerby demonstrates the contrary to be the correct position.Westerby has previously referred to a Complaints Commissioners report that highlights 
some issues with the Register. I appreciate that there have been criticisms of the Register 
and that it may, on occasion, have contained errors. However, Im satisfied that a regulated 
market participant such as Westerby, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, 
ought to have understood that Abana needed permission from the FCA to give advice on 
and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting 
business from Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that Abana held the required 
permissions. And, for the reasons Ive detailed above, Im satisfied that Abanas entry on the 
Register at the relevant time would have included a Permission page. And, if this page 
hadnt set out any information (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been 
left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, shouldnt have accepted 
Mrs Gs application from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct 
position on Abanas permissions.
Westerby says that the FCA wont confirm details about a firm that arent available on its 
public register, I accept that. However, and for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied 
that top-up permissions are something that are recorded on the FCAs public register, and 
that this was also the case at the date Westerby accepted Mrs Gs application from Abana.
Westerby says that Abana not holding the relevant permissions wouldnt have been a matter 
of public record. Further, that the FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not what 
was missing from it and that the FCA would have been unable to provide any more 
information than that which was provided on the Register.
As Ive mentioned above, we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas 
Permission page at the relevant time. However, this was information that ought to have 
been publicly available on the Register, so Im satisfied that whether Abana had top-up 
permissions was a matter of public record. And, if the Permission page had erroneously 
been left blank, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that, if asked, the FCA would have 
been able to confirm the position that Abana didnt have the required permissions.
So, I think contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to Westerby to verify 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly to confirm Abanas permissions because the Register didnt contain the relevant 
details, I dont think the restriction Westerby has referred to regarding what the FCA could 
confirm would have prevented Westerby getting the information it needed. Abana didnt have 
any top-up permissions. That was a matter of public record. So, I think the FCA would have 
been able to confirm this to Westerby.
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Abanas Register entry, or if Im wrong in my 
finding that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time included a Permission page, 
(and the Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry for Abana in 2013 and 
later at the time of Mrs Gs application), I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
it was appropriate  or in accordance with its regulatory obligations  for Westerby to have 
proceeded with Mrs Gs application from Abana in those circumstances.
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before 
accepting business from it. And if there was no information available or accessible on the 
Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Abana, then Westerby 
ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas permissions, or it ought to have 
declined to accept any applications from Abana until it could verify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions.And if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions  a position 
that I think is very unlikely given the available evidence  I think its fair and reasonable to 
say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion, it wasnt reasonable, and it 
wasnt in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with accepting 
business from Abana if the position wasnt clear.
So, to summarise, Im satisfied that:
It wasnt fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana 
if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions Abana held.
In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top-up permissions. And, as Im satisfied this would have been a 
matter of public record, I think the FCA would have been able to confirm whether 
Abana held any permissions.
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas permissions, Westerby 
should simply have declined to accept business from Abana.
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it?
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in 
signing the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required.
Westerby has referred to meetings that took place between it and Abana. It says Abana 
confirmed its permissions in these meetings. And that, as Abana was an authorised firm, it 
was entitled to rely on what Abana had told it.
Westerby has also previously referred to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 
Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual 
information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process 
(TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to 
make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it 
to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information 
provided to it in writing by another person.
And COBS 2.4.8 G says:
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information.
Westerby, in previous submissions, has confirmed that it kept no records of the discussions 
it had with Abana during the meetings its referred to, nor did Westerby record in writing 
specifically what Abana told it about the permissions it held. Westerby has said that SIPP operators arent required to meet with introducing IFAs before accepting business from them 
and, as such, it didnt have formal records of the discussions it had with Abana.
However, Westerby now seeks to rely on these meetings to evidence that it did take steps to 
ascertain Abanas permissions and that Abana had confirmed to Westerby that it had the 
required top-up permissions. In my opinion, if these meetings were the way Westerby was 
intending to evidence Abanas permissions, in order to comply with its regulatory obligations, 
in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence), and 
Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and 
effectively), Westerby should have had processes in place to ensure that it was able to 
evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana, including the steps taken to confirm 
Abanas permissions.
Further, I dont think any meetings Westerby had with Abana amounts to Abana providing 
something in writing on which it may have been reasonable for Westerby to rely, as it was a 
verbal exchange only and there appears to be nothing in writing arising from these meetings. 
The corollary of this is that I dont therefore think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the meetings.
Westerby says that the meetings it had with Abana culminated with Westerby establishing a 
legal document  the Agreement  in which Abana warranted that it had the required 
permissions to introduce SIPPs business.
Ive noted what Westerbys said about the Written Agreement. And Ive reviewed the 
contents of the Terms of Business Agreement of a different SIPP provider that Westerby has 
provided to us.
Having carefully considered everything, I remain of the view that the Agreement appears to 
be a generic document and not specific to Abana. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party 
to confirm or warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence 
process (i.e. the meetings at which Westerby claims Abana gave verbal assurances as to its 
permissions).
The Agreement provides as follows:
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial Services 
Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying investments where 
appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, authorities, licences and skills 
necessary for it to carry out its activities under this contract and will in all aspects comply 
with all Applicable Laws.
In my view this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely on.
In addition, the activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which I think is 
an ambiguous term. And, the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and 
doesnt refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Abana warranting that it 
has top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement, and all the submissions Westerby 
made in relation to what it says Abana told it about the permissions held, Im not satisfied on 
the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what top-up permissions Abana required to be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. Im also not satisfied, for 
the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on 
the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the required top-up 
permissions.
In any event, its my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Abana had the required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent 
checks on Abanas permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have 
been privy to information which didnt reconcile with what Abana had told it about its 
permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
Westerby didnt do enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the 
permissions it required.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to either the 
meetings Westerby had with Abana or the Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive 
also given careful thought to whether it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on these things 
generally. Westerby has referred, in previous submissions, to the FCAs Thematic Review 
TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook, and Ive considered this question with 
those details in mind. However, Im not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was 
reasonable for Westerby to rely on the meetings and Agreement, and for much the same 
reasons as Ive given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2).
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise clients are 
authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. Its told 
us it checked the Register at the point that it received Mrs G's SIPP application. Its also told 
us its procedure was to check the Register every time a SIPP application is received from an 
introducer, and every time advisor fees are paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this 
demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report. And thats a 
view I share.
So Westerby shouldnt have  and didnt  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as mentioned 
above, for all the reasons Ive given, I think Westerbys check of the Register ought to have 
led to the conclusion that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions (i.e. if the 
information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly recorded), or in the alternative, 
that the Register didnt record the information on Abanas Permission page in order for 
Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for example, if the Permission page 
had erroneously been left blank).
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt 
reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions in the meetings and the Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Abanas permissions, and by failing to do so, it didnt meet the 
requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
Anomalous features
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mrs G was 
taking advice on her pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
the monies from existing personal pension plans into a SIPP, and then to send the majority 
of the money transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius (with one later 
moving to the Cayman Islands). The investments involved were unusual, and specialised.
And the chances of them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a retail 
investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have 
viewed the application from Mrs G as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. And it 
should have been aware that the role of the advisor was likely to be a very important one in 
the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on 
Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on 
personal pensions in the UK.
I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mrs G 
 and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mrs G fairly and act in her best interests.
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, Im of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas 
permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above point only to 
highlight the importance of carrying out this check.
Further points
Westerby has previously said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a 
firm on the basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, 
carrying out adequate checks on Abanas permissions doesnt equate to treating Abana 
differently by virtue of its location. Westerby should have carried out these checks on any 
firm introducing advised business to it.
Westerby has said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the regulator, and that 
the regulator never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Abana. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mrs Gs application from 
Abana, a factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting the previous business 
it had been doing with Abana to the regulator, and that the regulator hadnt raised any 
concerns with it about this business. In any event, Im of the view that this is irrelevant, 
because if Westerby had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it wouldnt have 
accepted business from Abana at all and Abana would therefore not have featured in its 
reporting to the regulator.
Westerby has previously said that its able to accept applications from non-regulated 
introducers. But there seems to be no basis on which Mrs Gs application could, or would, 
have proceeded on the understanding Abana was an unregulated introducer. Westerby 
seems to have understood from the outset that Abana wasnt simply an introducer of investments to its customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and 
arranging. It seems that in any event, Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
make any findings based on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses, as that was not the circumstances involved in this case.
I appreciate that theres an argument that if it had been identified that Abana didnt have the 
required top-up permissions, Abana might have applied for, and been granted, the relevant 
top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line of argument. Im required to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. And in this case, 
Westerby accepted business from a firm which didnt have the required permissions to be 
carrying on the business that it did. And, Westerby failed to identify this fact prior to 
accepting Mrs Gs application. So, this is what I need to consider here  not a possible 
situation that could have happened.
Westerby has submitted that where complaints have been received by this service against 
both Abana and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Abana before, or at 
the same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this decision, Ive addressed the 
question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mrs G compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint. But, before going on to address that issue in detail below, 
and just in case theres been a misunderstanding, I wanted to clarify that Mrs G previously 
made a complaint about Abana to us, but that case was subsequently closed after Abana 
had ceased trading. And we hadnt issued an opinion or view on the merits of that complaint 
before then.
In conclusion
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions.
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions.
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana.
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
Ive outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mrs Gs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK.
Its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mrs Gs application 
from Abana.
Im therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
shouldnt have accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application from Abana.
Due diligence on the underlying investmentsIn light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers, and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint 
Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered Westerbys obligations 
under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. Its my view that had Westerby complied with its obligations under the 
Principles to carry out sufficient due diligence checks on Abana, then this arrangement 
wouldnt have come about in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mrs G compensation in the circumstances?
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application?
I think its more likely than not that if Westerby had refused to accept Mrs Gs application 
from Abana and Mrs G had received an explanation as to why her application hadnt been 
accepted (as Abana didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide 
such advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that 
Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice), Mrs G wouldnt have 
continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana. And I think its very 
unlikely that advice from a business that did have the necessary permissions would have 
resulted in Mrs G taking the same course of action. I think its reasonable to say that a 
business that did have the necessary permissions would have given suitable advice.
I appreciate that Westerby might say that its contract was with Abana not Mrs G and that if 
Mrs Gs application was refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, or had reason to, contact 
Mrs G.
But Westerby did receive Mrs Gs application, so Im considering what it ought to have done 
having received Mrs Gs application. And for the reasons Ive explained at length above Im 
satisfied that, having received Mrs Gs application from Abana, it shouldnt then have 
accepted Mrs Gs SIPP application.
Mrs G went through a process with Abana that culminated in her completing paperwork to 
set up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectancy that monies from her existing pension 
plans would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and 
effort of doing this, I think its more likely than not that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt then 
established, and if her pension monies werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mrs G 
would have wanted to find out why from Abana and Westerby.
And I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt compensate Mrs G 
for her loss on the basis of any speculation that Abana and/or Westerby wouldnt have 
confirmed to Mrs G the reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by her.
So, I think its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would have explained 
to Mrs G that her application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt have the necessary top- 
up permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been 
able to independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide 
the advice. And that Mrs G wouldnt then have continued to accept or act on pensions advice 
provided by Abana.
Further, I think its likely that if Westerby had refused to accept Mrs Gs application from 
Abana, and explained to Mrs G why it wasnt able to do so, Mrs G wouldnt have continued 
to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana (as she would then have been aware 
it wasnt able to provide such advice). And I think it very unlikely advice from an appropriately authorised business wouldve resulted in Mrs G taking the same course of 
action. I think it reasonable to say Mrs G wouldve sought out a business with the required 
permissions and that a competent business wouldve given suitable advice.
Its not possible to say precisely what that advice would have been. But Ive thought about 
the action Mrs G has taken since the transfer completed and Ive considered the letter she 
sent Westerby in July 2015.
In April 2014, not long after the transfer had completed, Mrs G took a tax-free cash. Just 
over a year later she wrote to Westerby. In this letter, dated 27 July 2015, Mrs G explained 
that she had been using the tax-free cash to top up her state pension. She also said shed 
been told by Mr F the new arrangement with Westerby was a replacement for an annuity and 
if shed known there was any risk involved she would most certainly have taken an annuity.
I find Mrs Gs testimony plausible in this regard and I think its likely that if shed had received 
suitable advice, she would have secured annuities after taking her tax-free cash, either with 
her existing pension providers (if there were any guarantees on her existing plans which 
meant these would provide the highest income), or on the open market if that would have 
provided better value.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mrs G proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investments she was making were high risk and speculative, and that she was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Abana. Ive not seen any evidence to show Mrs G was paid a cash incentive. It therefore 
cannot be said she was incentivised to enter into the transaction. So, in my opinion, this 
case is very different from that of Mr Adams.
Westerby has contended that Mrs G would likely have proceeded with the transfer and 
subsequent investments regardless of the actions it took. Its highlighted that other SIPP 
providers were accepting such investments at the time, and says the transactions would 
have been effected with another provider.
Westerby might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mrs Gs application, 
had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Westerby shouldnt 
compensate Mrs G for her loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would 
have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mrs Gs application from Abana.
Further, and in any eventuality, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept Mrs 
Gs application from Abana, that process would still have needed Mrs G to be willing to 
continue to do business with Abana after Westerby had rejected her application for another 
application to proceed. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Mrs G 
would have continued to accept or act on pensions advice from Abana in such 
circumstances.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had refused to accept Mrs Gs application from Abana, the transaction wouldnt still have gone 
ahead.
The involvement of Abana
Westerby has said that a complaint against Abana, ought to have been decided first or, at 
the very least, complaints against it and Abana ought to have been decided together.
Westerby has also said that weve upheld complaints against Abana where there was 
another SIPP operator involved and that weve not pursued or invited consumers to pursue 
complaints against that other SIPP operator. Ive carefully considered these points but, as I 
explain below, Im satisfied that its fair to require Westerby to compensate Mrs G for the full 
measure of her loss.
In this decision Im considering Mrs Gs complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mrs G to transfer the monies from her existing pension 
plans into a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of 
obligations when considering whether to accept Mrs Gs application for a SIPP.
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Abana complied with that responsibility. 
But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. And this 
included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory 
permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply with these obligations 
in this case.
Im satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in 
accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby wouldnt have done any 
SIPP business with Abana in the first place.
Im also satisfied that if Mrs G had been told that Abana was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, or alternatively that Westerby hadnt been able to independently 
verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, she 
wouldnt have continued to accept or act on advice from it. And, having taken into account all 
the circumstances of this case, its my view that its fair and reasonable to hold Westerby 
responsible for its failure to identify that Abana didnt have the required top-up permissions 
to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mrs G fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mrs G 
compensation for the loss shes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive considered 
whether theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask Westerby to compensate Mrs G for 
her loss, including if it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. And Im 
satisfied its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mrs G to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to its failings.
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mrs G to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mrs Gs loss. However, its also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mrs G wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the 
loss she suffered could have been avoided.
Westerby could have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mrs G has 
against Abana before compensation is paid. And the compensation could be made 
contingent upon Mrs Gs acceptance of this term of settlement.
Westerby has previously said that as Abanas ceased to trade then any indemnity from 
Abana and/or assignment of any action against it is effectively worthless.
I accept that may be true. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, Mrs 
G wouldnt have suffered the loss shes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial position of 
Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on an indemnity from Abana 
and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against Abana from Mrs G might be 
worthless, doesnt lead me to change my overall view on this point. And, as such, Im of the 
opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mrs G 
to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding 
any failings by Abana.
Westerby has also highlighted that in a previous decision involving an EEA firm that had 
acted outside its permissions, a different ombudsman made an apportionment between the 
SIPP provider and the advisor on a 50/50 basis.
The circumstances and facts of the other complaint Westerby has mentioned appear to be 
very different to Mrs Gs complaint. And it also looks like the SIPP provider in the other 
complaint had already compensated the consumer for half of their losses before the 
ombudsman was asked to decide the complaint against the EEA firm.
Importantly, we consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to 
address in this case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its fair 
to ask Westerby to compensate Mrs G to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered 
due to its failings and, for the reasons Ive already given above, Im satisfied it is.
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. And Im of the view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
Westerby to compensate Mrs G to the full extent of the financial losses shes suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, 
Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby is liable to pay to Mrs G.
Mrs G taking responsibility for her own investment decisions
I note the point has been made by Westerby that consumers should take responsibility for 
their own investment decisions. Ive considered the actions of Mrs G in relation to the 
mitigation of loss, in the section below. Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say Mrs Gs actions mean she should bear the loss arising as a result of 
Westerbys failings.Mrs G took advice from a regulated advisor (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held 
 a fact unknown to Mrs G) and used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. And Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
Westerby should compensate Mrs G for the loss shes suffered. I dont think it would be fair 
to say in the circumstances that Mrs G should suffer the loss because she ultimately 
instructed the investments to be made.
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Westerby says it wrote to Mrs G to highlight issues with the funds her SIPP was invested in 
and to inform her of an opportunity to realise some of her investment value. It says Mrs G 
had a responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard her funds and so should be 
responsible for the losses shes suffered.
Ive carefully considered this point but dont think its fair for any reduction to be made to fair 
compensation on the basis of a failure by Mrs G to mitigate her loss.
I dont think it would be fair to say Mrs G should have made a redemption request when 
Westerby wrote to her in November 2014. The November 2014 letter required Mrs G to seek 
advice, and urged her to contact her financial advisor, Abana. It asked Mrs G to confirm  by 
returning a member instruction form - if she wanted to retain her investments or attempt to 
sell them.
Mrs G returned the form confirming she wished to retain the investments but the adviser 
details on the form were left blank. However, Mrs G has confirmed that she contacted Mr F 
at Abana for advice on this matter before making this decision. This advice would have been 
consistent with what we have seen on other cases where Abana generally seems to have 
advised its clients to retain the holdings in question. In these circumstances, Im of the view 
that its not fair to say Mrs G ought to have acted differently.
Westerby has told us that its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time 
it received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors remuneration was to 
be paid. Westerby had received a number of introductions from Abana before November 
2014. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mrs G in November 2014, it would have had many 
opportunities to discover that Abana didnt have the top-up permissions it needed to give 
advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. As such, its my view that for 
Westerby to have suggested that Mrs G seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds shed invested in had come to light, is a further failing of Westerby in relation to its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mrs G fairly.
On 23 June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mrs G providing an update on the Kijani Fund. This 
letter said Kijani is currently being investigated by PWC [Price Waterhouse Cooper 
Chartered Accountants] and they require a further 90 days to complete this; charging fees 
along the way.
To ensure clients are not affected, Kijani fund managers have taken the decision to liquidate 
all assets and return client monies within 30/60 days, in-line with standard redemption 
timescales.
We are awaiting official updates, however we know that Kijani wish to re-launch a fund asap 
so it is in their best interest for relationships and reinvestment to action the above 
redemptions efficiently.Although this letter told Mrs G there was an investigation into the Kijani fund, it also said she 
would be getting her money back. So I dont think it would have been unreasonable if Mrs G 
had decided not to take any action following receipt of this letter. However, as she was 
unsure what to do, Mrs G tried to call Mr F of Abana. She was unable to contact him so she 
called Westerby to ask for advice. Westerby wasnt able to give her advice but it did confirm 
she could redeem funds in the AMI account. It also said this could take 90 days.
After taking a few days to think about matters, Mrs G called Westerby again on 29 June 
2015, as she had decided the best way forward was to take her money out of the portfolio. 
She subsequently completed and returned a redemption form in July 2015, confirming she 
wanted to redeem all liquid funds as soon as possible and all illiquid funds as and when it 
was possible to do so. So I think Mrs G took action to redeem funds as soon as she was 
aware there was a problem.
The redemption form was sent to ePortfolio Solutions in July 2015. It appears Mrs G called 
Westerby again in March 2016 to say that she wanted to redeem her funds and Westerby 
said a form would be issued. But the evidence Ive seen suggests the redemption form had 
already been received in July 2015 and forwarded to ePortfolio Solutions. £20,833.01 was 
received from Managed Portfolio L on 16 March 2016, and Mrs G has since taken this as an 
income payment. However, it wasnt possible to redeem funds in Managed Portfolio S  
which contained the Kijani fund  and correspondence issued after this date suggests this 
fund has been suspended.
So, despite Mrs G requesting that this fund was redeemed shortly after receiving Westerbys 
letter in June 2015, this hasnt been possible. Westerbys letter of 28 May 2021 confirmed 
that as Mrs G didnt submit a valid redemption claim for the Kijani fund before 17 March 
2015, she will only be paid a redemption if there is a surplus after payment of liquidation 
expenses and accepted redemption claims.
Im not aware of Mrs G having received any further payments from the Kijani fund. But taking 
into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, And given that Im satisfied Mrs G 
requested redemption of this fund as soon as she was aware there was a problem with it, Im 
not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby has to pay to Mrs G.
I would also add that even if Im wrong, and Mrs G didnt submit a redemption form until 
March 2016, I still dont think it would be fair to reduce the compensation amount Westerby 
has to pay. This is because Ive also noted that in the complaint that was the subject of the 
published decision Westerby has confirmed in a letter dated 21 December 2015 that it 
summarised the situation with the Kijani fund to the complainant in that case, in October 
2015, as suspended, in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will 
come back.
So, in any eventuality, I also think theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption 
request made in relation to the Kijani fund after Westerbys July 2015 letter would have been 
successful.
Fair compensation
Westerby says that responsibility for Mrs Gs loss should lie with Abana.
As set out above, I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mrs G to enter into 
a SIPP, could be responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mrs Gs loss.However, the complaint against Westerby is the complaint Im considering here. And for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier in this decision, I consider that Westerby has failed to comply 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. Its therefore my view that its 
fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mrs G for the full measure of her losses  
as Westerby could have put a stop to things if it had acted fairly and reasonably by rejecting 
Mrs Gs application.
I therefore consider that in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to direct Westerby to 
compensate Mrs G to the full extent of her losses.
In addition to the financial loss that Mrs G has suffered as a result of the problems with her 
pension, I think that the losses suffered to Mrs Gs pension provisions have caused Mrs G 
distress and I think that its fair for Westerby to compensate Mrs G for this as well.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mrs G to the position she would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Abana had the correct permissions to be providing advice on 
pensions in the UK before accepting Mrs Gs SIPP application from it.
As Ive already mentioned above  if Mrs G had sought advice from a different advisor, 
who was qualified to give pension advice, I think its very unlikely that advice would have 
resulted in Mrs G taking the same course of action. Its not possible to say precisely what 
Mrs G would have done differently. But based on her circumstances and the available 
information, I think its most likely that she would have elected to take maximum tax free 
cash in April 2014 (as she did in fact do) and then used the remaining funds to purchase 
the highest available income on the open market, on the terms set out below. So, to fully 
compensate Mrs G, Westerby will need to establish the income that would have been 
available to her at the time, compensate her for the income shes missed out on and then 
pay to her enough to now purchase an income at the level she would have been able to 
purchase at the date Ive found she would likely taken benefits, so when she took her tax 
free cash.
I note that Mrs G has received some money from her SIPP, initially tax-free cash and 
later an income payment in respect of the monies she was able to redeem from the 
investments made, these payments will need to be taken into account in the calculating of 
compensation due to Mrs G as set out below.
Ive set out below in more detail how Westerby should go about undertaking the 
calculation. To put matters right, Westerby should do the following:
Mrs Gs past loss
A) Westerby should ask the operators of Mrs Gs previous pension plans to 
calculate the notional values of her plans, as at 10 April 2014  being the date 
Mrs G took her tax-free cash and when I think she would have otherwise taken 
her benefits  had she not transferred into the SIPP.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining notional valuations from the operators 
of Mrs Gs previous pension plans, Westerby should instead calculate a 
notional valuation by ascertaining what the monies transferred away from the 
plans would have been worth, as at 10 April 2014, had they achieved a return 
from the date of transfer equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income total return index).Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question.
The amount of tax-free cash and any income payments Mrs G received should 
then be deducted from the combined notional value of all plans.
B) Mrs G has said shed have taken annuities, so Westerby should establish 
the level of annuities she would have been able to obtain on the open market 
with the sum total of the remaining after she took her tax free cash. Mrs G hasnt 
expressed the terms on which she would have taken these annuities, under the 
circumstances I think its fair and reasonable to conclude this would most likely 
have been monthly in arrears with no guaranteed term and on a single life basis.
C) Calculate the sum total of net income payments that Mrs G has missed, 
plus 8% simple interest per year from the date each annuity payment would have 
been paid to date of the final decision.
D) The total established as at step C is Mrs Gs past lost and should be 
paid to her directly as a lump sum.
Mrs Gs future loss
E) Establish the capital cost of purchasing an annuity paying an income 
of the level established above, on the above terms.
F) Establish the current actual transfer value of Mrs Gs SIPP, as of the date 
of the final decision, less any outstanding charges.
G) If the capital cost of purchasing an annuity in E) is higher than the current 
transfer value of Mrs Gs SIPP in (F) then she also has a current/future loss and 
Westerby will need to compensate her for this amount as well (if the current 
actual value of the SIPP is higher than the capital cost of purchasing the annuity, 
then the balance can be offset against the established past loss).
H) Pay a commercial value to buy Mrs Gs share in any investments that 
cannot currently be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mrs Gs Westerby SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid 
investments that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mrs Gs 
monies could have been transferred away from Westerby. In order for the SIPP 
to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments 
need to be removed from the SIPP.
To do this Westerby should reach an amount its willing to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take 
ownership of the relevant investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual 
value of any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for 
the purposes of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include these 
being given a nil value for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mrs 
Gs SIPP in step F).
If Westerby doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mrs G to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may 
receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of 
any tax and charges on the amount Mrs G may receive from the investments, and any eventual sums she would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby 
will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
I) Pay an amount into Mrs Gs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in G). This payment should 
take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The payment 
should also take account of interest as set out below.
Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protections or allowances.
If Westerby is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Gs SIPP, or if doing 
so would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay 
that amount directly to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. Its reasonable to assume that Mrs G is a 
basic rate taxpayer, so the reduction would equal 20%.
Westerby should provide the details of the calculations to Mrs G in a clear, simple forma
In order to be fair to Westerby, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mrs G assigning any claim she may have against Abana to 
Westerby (including the right to any future payment Abana may make to Mrs G as part 
of the settlement agreed following the third-party review)  but only in so far as Mrs G 
is compensated here. The terms of the assignment should require Westerby to account 
to Mrs G for any amount it subsequently recovers against Abana that exceeds the loss 
paid to Mrs G.
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must 
first provide a draft of the assignment to Mrs G for her consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment must be met by Westerby.
Westerby should also pay Mrs G £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems 
with her pension have caused her. In addition to the financial loss that Mrs G has suffered 
as a result of the problems with her pension, I think that the loss suffered to Mrs Gs 
pension provisions has caused Mrs G distress. And I think that its fair for Westerby to 
compensate her for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mrs G to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into 
Mrs Gs SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP 
(based on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the 
issues with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. 
As an alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be 
payable by Mrs Gs SIPP.
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mrs G or into her 
SIPP within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mrs Gs acceptance of 
my final decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the 
compensation isnt paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and I direct Westerby Trustee Services  
Limited to calculate and pay fair compensation to Mrs G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman