DRN-3330148
The complaint
Mr V says deVere and Partners (UK) Limited (DPUK) mis-informed him about the value of 
his Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS), when it recommended that 
he transfer his funds into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr V says hed been a client of the deVere group of companies since 2010. At that point he 
was given a recommendation by an overseas adviser to set-up a QROPS. I assume that at 
the time of this initial advice and in subsequent years, the same adviser was also 
responsible for recommending his portfolio of investments. I dont have much information 
about these earlier matters.
The focus of Mr Vs complaint concerns the value of his pension transferred in 2020 when he 
received advice from DPUK to move his QROPS funds into a SIPP and recommended 
investments.
Mr V held a QROPS as he was working overseas. The plan was a Sovereign Trust 
(Guernsey) scheme which was placed in a Providence Offshore Investment Bond. The bond 
held several investments, including three structured notes.
Mr V had been made redundant and had returned to the UK, where he intended to stay. On 
his return, he was put in touch with DPUK. In February 2020 his adviser completed a fact 
find, establishing matters such as his objectives, circumstances and attitude to risk. It also 
requested information from the Trustees of his QROPS.
Mr Vs objectives were captured by DPUK in the following terms:
-You would like to consider switching Sovereign Trust (Guernsey) / Providence 
QROPS to a UK pension as you wish to increase your wealth by reducing ongoing 
product charges and for ease of servicing.
-You will require access to the capital when the funds have been transferred back to 
the UK and would like the greater flexibility of a UK pension withdrawal options to 
fund your property purchase.
-You would like the benefit of more flexible retirement options available in the UK.
-You are planning to remain in the UK for the foreseeable future.
At the time of the advice Mr V was 61. He had a partner who was partially financially 
dependent on him. After returning to the UK hes sold his property overseas for around 
£350,000 and was looking to purchase a new family home. Its recorded he expected to pay 
around £550,000 for this. He was planning to meet the shortfall with tax-free cash (TFC) 
from his new SIPP and a mortgage of around £100,000.
At the time Mr V was unemployed but was considering whether to return to work either part-
time or full-time. He was in receipt of around £400 a month from another pension scheme. 
But his outgoings were around £2,500 a month. He was eating into his capital.
DPUK prepared a suitability report for Mr V dated 26 February 2020. This recommended that 
he transfer his QROPS into a SIPP with Aegon and investments that were consistent with 
his assessed attitude to risk. That was indicated as level five, the low end of moderate. Mr V 
signed the suitability report on 9 March 2020 to proceed with DPUKs recommendations. 
However, he made clear capital protection was a priority  so it was agreed his attitude to 
risk would be reduced to level four, cautious to moderate.
The transfer value of Mr Vs QROPS quoted by DPUK in the reports it gave him in February 
and March 2020 was around £740,000. On 1 June 2020 Sovereign Trust received Mr Vs 
encashed funds monies from Providence Life. The sum received was only around £657,000.
When Mr V realised what had happened he complained to DPUK. He was unhappy that the 
transfer value was substantially less than indicated in the advice he received. DPUK said 
that valuation of his investment was the responsibility of the Providence as the product 
provider. The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. She didnt think DPUK had done 
anything wrong.
Mr V disagreed he said:
as my financial advisors for the 10 years that I held the QROPS, DeVere have misled me 
in terms of overstating the pension value. Surely they have a duty of care to ensure my 
funds are placed with safe providers and that the values they quote to me are correct? Over 
the last 10 years DeVere have been proudly telling me how my plan has grown and yet in 
reality no due diligence has been carried out to ascertain if this was the caseit is only upon 
surrender that it has come to light that the funds have been overstated by Providence and 
subsequently by DeVereI understand DeVere are in the process of changing the values 
they show to clients to reflect the market values of structured notes rather than original 
investment values. Surely this is in itself an admission of an error on their part.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Vs case has 
been passed to me to review. I issued my provisional decision last month. 
Mr V was disappointed that what I was proposing in no way compensated him for the 
perceived loss in value of his pension fund. Ive thought carefully about what he told me but 
it hasnt caused me to depart from my initial findings and conclusions. I do however suggest 
a course of action open to him regarding a new point hes raised in relation to fees and 
charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
A few of the points Mr V has raised in response to the Investigators view appear to relate to 
the services and advice he received in relation to his QROPS, which he told us were 
provided by an overseas adviser.
To be clear, the rules governing our jurisdiction (the complaints we can consider) cover 
cases about the activities of a firm carried out from an establishment in the United Kingdom. 
That excludes the Channel Islands and Isle of Man.So, I wont be dealing with the wider matters Mr V has now raised. I can only look at the 
complaint he brought against DPUK in relation to any acts and omissions it was responsible 
for.
On these wider matters DPUK said the following:
I would suggest that [Mr Vs] complaint about the valuation should be addressed either to 
the Trustees, Sovereign, or the Bond Provider, Providence Life who caused the problem by 
providing an incorrect valuation. Or, if he is not happy about the fall in value itself, then he 
would need to complain to the firm who arranged the QROPS originally and recommended 
he invest in the Structured Note.
I find it helpful when considering complaints to keep in mind the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations 
firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework. They must always 
be complied with by regulated firms like DPUK. As such, I need to have regard to them in 
deciding Mr Vs case.
DPUKs role was to provide Mr V with advice about his pension arrangements and options. It 
seems to me an important facet of such advice was to understand the consequences of the 
transfer it recommended  downsides as well as advantages.
I think the suitability report it delivered to Mr V was reasonably detailed and clear in most 
respects. For example, I can see it detailed how the complex investment hed made in three 
separate structured notes worked (this accounted for around 45% of his fund).
DPUK set out how quarterly returns to this investment relied on the performance of multiple 
indexes. It noted the thresholds of performance for the indexes above which his capital was 
protected and income generated. And what returns could be made. It identified the notes 
matured in August 2024. And that if he retained his holdings the capital returned at that point 
could realise a profit or loss, based on the worst performing index within each structured 
note.
However, it seems to me there was an important deficiency in the advice DPUK gave Mr V in 
relation to the structured notes. As it explained to him in its final response, cashing in his 
structured notes early had implications. But it failed to point this out in its advice. So it didnt 
act with due care, skill and diligence here.
Ive not seen a copy of the terms and conditions associated with the financial instruments Mr 
V held, but we know from what Providence reported to DPUK the reason for the reduced 
value of the structured notes was because they had to be sold on a secondary market.
Presumably offloading the structured notes through a secondary market couldve been 
positive or negative for the value of Mr Vs capital depending on factors such as demand. And perhaps a valuation wouldve been tricky because it took several months from 
agreement of the transfer of his QROPS into a SIPP, until execution.
While I can see DPUK did explain the volatility of the various indexes, which were so 
important to how Mr Vs structured notes performed. And how significant falls could be 
experienced in a short period. I cant see it informed him about the potential consequences 
of the early redemption of his structured notes.
I then need to consider what the impact of this failure had on Mr V. DPUK said:
I appreciate that [Mr V] would have been distressed and disappointed by the reduction in 
value of his plan. However, the reduced value is a matter of fact  had the correct valuation 
been provided originally, he would still have suffered that disappointment with the returns. 
However, in view of his objectives, I cant see that with the new valuation our 
recommendation would have been any different  to meet his objectives he would still have 
needed to transfer to the UK and surrender his plan for the lower amount so I dont think he 
would have made a different decision. Therefore, there is no causation between our advice 
and the matter he is complaining about.
In thinking about DPUKs failing, I am mindful of what Mr V has told this Service. He said he 
was content with the advice he received to transfer his QROPS to a SIPP with Aegon. I can 
see the transaction met his objectives, which were driven by his circumstances.
Mr V told us that hed been planning to use the value from the transfer of his QROPS, to 
maximise the TFC he could take and put this towards the purchase of his new family home. 
Happily, he was still able to proceed with this because around the same time the Chancellor 
had extended certain stamp duty concessions.
In responding to my provisional decision Mr V confirmed:
It is the case that the transfer value was important to me as I used the 25% drawdown 
towards the purchase of my home. However of more concern is the perceived fall in value 
which represented 10% of the total fund value. This has a longer term effect in that my 
lifestyle has to change to suit the reduced income I receive from the SIPP.
I think even if DPUK had given Mr V better advice about the implications of cashing-in his 
structured notes early, based on what hes told this Service, I think its more likely than not 
hed have still gone ahead with the transfer of his pension arrangements. 
I recognise Mr V suffered a loss of expectation  he thought he would have a better income 
from his pension. But I dont think that equates to a consequential financial impact. Thats to 
say I cant see he acted on what he thought he might receive in the future by incurring 
liabilities now. One of the reasons he didnt was because, as hes acknowledged, until 
matters were finalised, the value of his pension pot was somewhat uncertain.
Mr V has also now raised the matter of charges. His essential point is that since his advisers 
fees were based on his fund value, it has benefitted from what he regards as an inflated 
assessment of his fund over the years.
Theres an argument that the value of his fund was affected by the decision to cash-in Mr Vs 
structured notes early. The notes were designed to run to a fixed term. So the value he 
received was what could be achieved in the secondary market.Leaving these matters to one side, as Ive already mentioned this Service can only consider 
the acts and omissions of DPUK. I note that in its suitability report from February 2020 it said 
the following about its charges:
I confirm that l have offered advice in terms of switching the monies back from the 
Sovereign Trust (Guernsey) / Providence back to a UK SIPP. Initial charge for advice 
payable to deVere is as follows:
-£14,758.19 / 2% based on the value of £737,909.31 (subject to fluctuations), payable 
should the QROPs to SIPP transfer go ahead. This fee can be taken from the 
receiving scheme, once the transfer to the UK has concluded.
* Usually deVere United Kingdoms initial charge is 3%, however we have reduced this to 
2%.
I note that DPUK would also charge Mr V an annual fee of 1% of the value of his fund for 
ongoing advice.
Ive not seen a transaction report setting out what fees and charges Mr V actually paid to 
DPUK. But if after reviewing the position he has any concerns that these were not consistent 
with what had been agreed, in the first instance he should address these to DPUK so it has 
an opportunity to respond.
Putting things right
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Vs, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of DPUKs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Im mindful that other parties, prior to DPUKs involvement with Mr V, wouldve been 
responsible for him understanding initially how the structured notes worked and what their 
value was at any given time. And these matters would also have influenced his expectations. 
While Mr V may not have suffered financial detriment as a result of DPUKs advice, there 
seems to me no doubt that he did experience a loss of expectation in part because of the 
incomplete information it gave him about the implications of surrendering his structured note 
investments early.
So, I require deVere and Partners (UK) Limited to pay Mr V £300 for the trouble and upset it 
has caused him because of its failings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im partially upholding Mr Vs complaint. As such, I 
require deVere and Partners (UK) Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman