DRN-3747448
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt allow him to make a 
transfer from his account over the phone.
What happened
Mr L held a basic bank account with Nationwide.
A block was placed on Mr Ls account at the end of June 2022, and it was under notice to be 
closed on 27 August 2022. This was due to security concerns after Mr L reported high levels 
of fraudulent activity on his account.
On 25 July 2022 Mr L called Nationwide and asked them to transfer his account balance of 
£10 to another business. The adviser explained that they werent able to do this over the 
phone. She also said the block on Mr Ls account meant hed need to visit a branch to carry 
out any transactions. Mr L said that it wasnt convenient for him to visit a branch and it would 
cost him money in a bus fare.
The adviser transferred Mr L to a different team and they explained again that they were 
unable to transfer funds to another business over the phone and Mr L would need to visit a 
branch. 
Mr L asked to speak to a supervisor, who also told him hed need to visit a branch with ID to 
access his funds. She also logged a complaint for Mr L. She told him theyd contact him 
about his complaint within five working days.
Nationwide sent Mr L their final response on 4 August 2022. They explained, in summary, 
that they didnt offer the facility to transfer funds over the phone  except in emergency 
circumstances. They also said that due to the block on Mr Ls account it wouldnt have been 
possible for them to make the transfer anyway. They accepted he'd been told theyd respond 
in five business days, and apologised for the delay in responding.
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint, but she didnt 
uphold it. Mr L didnt agree. So his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I want to be clear that Im only considering Mr Ls complaint about the service he received 
during his calls of 25 July 2022 here. He has also raised a complaint about the application of 
the block and subsequent closure of the account which is being considered separately.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account and under the section important 
information about your payments they say that telephone banking can only be used to 
make an internal transfer to another Nationwide current or savings account in your name.
Mr L said he wanted to make a transfer to an account with another business, which wasnt a 
service Nationwide offered through telephone banking.
Nationwide explained in their final response letter that they will sometimes allow transfers to 
other businesses over the phone in emergency circumstances that meet their criteria. But I 
dont think Mr L said anything during the call to lead Nationwide to believe this was an 
emergency. So, I dont think Nationwide were unreasonable to tell Mr L they couldnt do the 
transfer. This wasnt a service they normally offered over the phone for the type of account 
Mr L held with them.
The advisers Mr L spoke to also explained that there was a block on the account at the time, 
so hed need to visit a branch to withdraw his funds. But I dont think I need to make a finding 
about whether Nationwide were fair to apply the block to make my decision on this complaint 
 because, as Ive explained, the block wasnt the main reason why Nationwide couldnt do 
the transfer over the phone.
Nationwide have apologised to Mr L for taking longer to send him their final response letter 
than he was told they would. I dont think they need to do anything else.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration about not being able to transfer his funds to another 
account, but overall, I dont think Nationwide have made a mistake or treated Mr L unfairly 
here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman