DRN-2824267
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the cancellation fee EUI Limited (EUI) charged when he cancelled his 
motor insurance policy mid-term. 
What happened
Mr Gs annual motor insurance policy administered by EUI renewed at the beginning of 
March 2020. In December 2020 Mr G cancelled his policy as he had sold his vehicle. EUI 
calculated the premium for time on cover to see if any refund was due. But once they added 
their £55 cancellation fee this meant Mr G owed them £9.23. 
Mr G complained to EUI about the amount charged for cancellation as he felt it wasnt in 
proportion to other fees they charge. 
EUI looked into the complaint. They felt they hadnt made any errors, however, to resolve 
matters, they waived the cancellation fee and refunded Mr G £45.77 which was a 
proportionate refund of the premium he had paid.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He felt the £55 EUI 
charged for cancellation included an element of profit and didnt reflect the work undertaken 
to cancel the policy. He said an adviser told him the fee used to be lower and that he felt EUI 
had breached relevant guidance. He also said the fee wasnt brought to his attention 
prominently. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt find the fee to be unfairly applied or 
disproportionate to the charges applied in the insurance industry. Mr G remains unhappy so 
has asked for an ombudsman to consider it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr G's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome hed hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
The policy document includes general conditions of cover and explains that cancellation 
incurs charges payable to EUI Limited for arranging and handling the policy. It goes on to 
say that details of these charges are set out in the agreement with EUI Limited. 
Ive read the agreement and can see that it breaks down the charges applicable depending 
on whether the policy is cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period or after. Mr G 
cancelled after 14 days and in this instance its clear the fee is £55. Whilst Mr G says this 
wasnt brought directly to his attention, I think this was clear within the documents provided 
to him at renewal. And there is some responsibility on Mr G to review the documents to 
ensure the policy meets his needs. 
EUI have waived the cancellation fee and Mr G was refunded a proportion of the premium 
he paid. If I had found the charges unfair, Id have asked EUI to refund it. Since EUI have 
done this already in Mr Gs case, it follows that I think theyve been fair here and dont need 
to do anything more. 
I know Mr G wants to know the breakdown of the fee as he feels there may be an element of 
profit and that he hasnt been treated fairly. 
Insurers and brokers are entitled to charge administration fees to cover the cost of any work 
it does. EUI have explained that whilst cancelling a policy might seem similar to other admin 
changes, the fees are different because theyre also recovering costs related to the set-up of 
the policy. And that they review prices regularly to ensure they fairly reflect the cost to them. 
Considering this along with the other elements for cancellation, I feel this is a fair 
explanation.
The terms of the policy allow EUI to charge a cancellation fee and from what Ive seen £55 is 
broadly in line with other providers. As Mr G has now been refunded this fee, Im satisfied 
hes been put back in the position he wouldve been in had it not been charged. 
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman