DRN-4006569
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited trading as Tenet Network 
Services (TenetConnect) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal 
pension arrangement.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Mr D was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so in August 2017 he sought advice from TenetConnect.
TenetConnect recorded some information about Mr Ds circumstances in a fact-find. It noted 
that he was 53 (soon to be 54), married with no dependents. Mr D was employed earning 
approximately £32,000. His wife also worked and she earned around £17,000. They owned 
their own home, which was unencumbered. They had cash assets of around £2,000 and 
they had a loan of around £5,000. They indicated by ticking the relevant box that their 
income more than covered their monthly expenditure (no detailed income and expenditure 
was completed in this document.) TenetConnect also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds 
attitude to risk, which was deemed to be 5 on a scale of 1-10. 
TenetConnect produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report dated 26 September 2017, 
which said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 9.47% to match the 
full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or to match the 
maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 
6.77%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.82% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
4.19%.
 
In October 2017, the BSPS provided Mr W with an updated summary of the transfer value of 
his scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£436,263.27.
TenetConnect issued its recommendation in a report dated 23 October 2017. This said Mr D 
wanted to take an immediate cash lump sum at 55  around £65,00  for home 
improvements, to upgrade his car and pay for a holiday. It said Mr D wanted to retire at 57 
and his income need in retirement was £24,000 a year of which £20,000 was for essential 
needs. It said this income would be met from all sources including his wifes pension due 
when she reached 60. It said Mr D was keen to secure the transfer value within an 
alternative arrangement, which would allow him to flexibly access his benefits.
TenetConnect recommended that Mr D transfer his pension to meet his stated objectives. 
And it recommended a pension provider and investment strategy that it said was in line with 
his attitude to risk.
Mr D complained to TenetConnect in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In 
essence, he didnt think he shouldve been advised to give up a guaranteed pension income.
TenetConnect replied and said that, without admission of liability, it was willing to make an 
offer of settlement in line with the regulatory prescribed method.
Because Mr D was unhappy with the way TenetConnect had carried out the redress 
calculation  he thought it was an unfair assumption that he wouldve accessed his benefits 
at 55 had suitable advice to remain in the scheme been given  he asked us to consider the 
matter. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable 
as Mr D wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. 
They said it appeared Mr D couldve met his income need in retirement without transferring 
;he shouldnt have been encouraged to access his pension benefits early for discretionary 
spending  he shouldve been advised to wait as the tax-free cash from the scheme at age 
57 wouldve met his needs; and flexibility couldve been achieved by transferring later on 
once his retirement plans were clear and if flexibility was still important to him. They said 
Mr D shouldve been advised to retain his DB scheme benefits. And they said compensation 
should be based on a retirement age of 65 because, although Mr D accessed his tax-free 
cash at 55, he continues to work with no plans to retire.
TenetConnect agreed to carry out a loss calculation, which it said showed there was no 
shortfall to Mr Ds pension i.e. he has sufficient funds in his pension to be able to replicate 
his DB benefits in retirement.
Because Mr D remains dissatisfied, he asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
Ombudsman. So, the complaint was subsequently referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TenetConnect's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
TenetConnect should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
Firstly - I can see that TenetConnect has said its not clear why this complaint needs to be 
considered by an Ombudsman when its carried out a loss calculation in line with the 
regulatory guidance. But ultimately the complaint remains unresolved and Mr D has asked 
for an Ombudsman to consider his complaint as is his right. So, to bring finality to things it 
requires me to provide a final decision. And if I uphold the complaint, Ill award redress 
based on the current situation. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, I have decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. Because Im mindful that 
TenetConnect doesnt appear to have disputed the Investigators findings and it has shown 
its willingness to settle the matter by carrying out a loss calculation, in the circumstances I 
dont see the need to address the suitability of the advice it gave to Mr D in detail. So, in 
summary I think the advice to transfer was unsuitable for the following reasons.
Given the critical yields produced by TenetConnect in the TVAS report of 26 
September 2017, Mr Ds recorded attitude to risk score of 5, the discount rate of 
3.8% for 10 years to retirement (65) and the regulators middle projection rate, I think 
Mr D was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value 
than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2  and at best a limited 
opportunity to improve on the benefits available through the PPF - by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk (notwithstanding the critical yields were 
based on the BSPS benefits and not the BSPS2.) And had TenetConnect produced analysis based on Mr Ds actual target retirement age of 57, given what the TVAS 
noted about the critical yields for retirement at age 55  that these were significantly 
higher  I think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF offered, if he retired early as he desired.
 
For this reason alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ds best interests.
Mr D wanted access to his pension benefits early at age 55 and take a cash lump 
sum for home improvements, a car purchase and to go on holiday. But TenetConnect 
should not have recommended he transfer to achieve this given the nature of Mr Ds 
planned spending. This was not essential spending, so I dont think it was in his best 
interest to carry this out. It strikes me that Mr D couldve put this off until he retired. At 
57  his desired retirement age - the lump sum available through his DB scheme 
wouldve been sufficient to meet his capital requirement of £65,000. If Mr D didnt 
want to delay his spending, then borrowing the money was a reasonable alternative 
available to him. He couldve then used his tax-free cash when he retired to repay it. I 
think this option was too readily dismissed by TenetConnect.
Mr D didnt have to transfer to retire early  he already had this option available to 
him. He couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly and adjust his income. But Im 
not persuaded this was a genuine objective of his  I think it was simply a feature or 
a consequence of moving to a personal pension arrangement. So flexibility wasnt a 
suitable reason to transfer.
I think Mr D couldve met his income needs by retaining his DB scheme. According to 
TenetConnect he needed £20,000 a year to meet essential expenditure and he 
wanted £24,000. At 57, if Mr D did decide to retire (by no means certain) his income 
wouldve been higher than the reduced pension of £11,673 TenetConnects analysis 
showed hed get at age 55. This was a guaranteed and escalating income for life. 
While this wouldnt have met his need in full, his wifes salary of £17,000 a year 
wouldve continued. And when she retired at 60 (she was around three years 
younger than Mr D) she was entitled to a pension income estimated to be just over 
£9,000 a year. Any shortfall at this stage, likely to be small, couldve been made up 
using Mr Ds DC scheme workplace pension. They would then both have state 
pension income to further supplement things later on. 
Mr D may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF and so he wanted to take control of his 
pension. But it was TenetConnects role to objectively address those concerns. At the 
time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if 
not, the PPF still provided Mr D with guaranteed income and the option of accessing 
tax-free cash. Mr D was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr D received from TenetConnect  was 
unsuitable for him.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
TenetConnect must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
TenetConnect should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence 
of what TenetConnect based the inputs into the calculator on.
I can see that TenetConnect says it isnt sure why the Ombudsman would instruct it to use 
the BSPS calculator in this case. Its also referred to an independent actuarys view that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service should not be mandating its use in non-BSPS scheme cases 
and that alternative calculators should arrive at the same numbers.
But it is for me to determine what redress is appropriate here. And that can include a 
direction to use the FCAs calculator.
 
The FCA developed the calculator as part of the BSPS consumer redress scheme, to ensure
consistency in the calculations and to ensure consumers receive fair and quicker redress. It
also reduces the burden on firms by removing the need for actuarial support in most
calculations. While the calculator was developed as part of the BSPS consumer redress
scheme, the FCA is also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for non-scheme 
cases, such as Mr Ds complaint. And overall, I think it would be reasonable for 
TenetConnect to use the FCAs calculator here as the calculator output is easily understood 
and I think it will provide Mr D with reassurance that any redress owed to him has been 
calculated fairly.
I think it would be helpful for Mr D to explain that the calculator uses economic and 
demographic assumptions to calculate how much a consumer needs in their pension 
arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement benefits that they would have been 
entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to reflect the subsequent buy-out), 
had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.For clarity, while Mr D accessed his tax-free cash at 55, he has not yet retired and started 
drawing an income from his pension. And my understanding is that he has no firm plans to 
do so at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age 
(65), as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TenetConnect should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts TenetConnects offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, TenetConnect 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
trading as Tenet Network Services to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
TenetConnect Limited trading as Tenet Network Services pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect Limited 
trading as Tenet Network Services.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman