DRN-3004957
The complaint
Mr L has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under his home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr L found some water stains, so he contacted British Gas because he was concerned there 
was a leak. British Gas sent an engineer, but he couldnt find a leak. A few months later 
another British Gas engineer visited, who also couldnt find a leak. Mr L then arranged for an 
independent engineer to try and find the leak, who found a compression nut that required 
tightening.
Mr L complained to British Gas as he said it was responsible for damage to his home and 
should have found the leak. When British Gas replied, it said it wasnt responsible for any 
damage as this was caused by the leak. It offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr L because of the misdiagnosis by its engineers. However, it said it hadnt seen 
any invoice or documents from the independent engineer.
So, Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said 
British Gas wasnt responsible for the damage caused by the leak as this was pre-existing. 
However, she said British Gas should pay the cost of the independent engineer.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
British Gas installed a new boiler in Mr Ls home. The installation wasnt under an insurance 
policy, so Im unable to consider it. However, I am able to look at what happened when the 
engineers visited and tried to find the source of the leak.
Ive considered whether British Gas should pay Mr Ls home insurance excess to deal the 
damage caused by the leak. I need to be clear that Im only commenting on whether British 
Gas has any responsibility because of the actions of the two engineers. I have not 
considered and have no view on British Gass actions around the boiler installation itself. 
When the first engineer visited, there was already visible staining and this was what 
prompted Mr L to contact British Gas. So, as the staining was already present, I dont think 
British Gas needs to pay the home insurance excess, as its engineers werent responsible 
for that damage. 
Ive also considered whether British Gas should pay the independent engineers invoice. 
Looking at British Gass records, its engineers seem to have carried out a range of checks to 
try and find the leak. The first engineer wrote in his notes Am sure not heating pipes and 
the second engineer wrote Staining on stairway wall lifted floorboards; no pipes adv to 
contact house insurers. Mr L later contacted an independent engineer who found a loose 
compression nut on the water cylinder.
When Mr L complained to British Gas, it investigated the complaint and in its reply said 
Please be assured, feedback surrounding misdiagnosis by our engineers has been 
addressed internally. So, at that time, British Gas seemed to accept its engineers should 
have found the source of the leak having investigated Mr Ls complaint. However, Im aware 
Mr L wasnt able to provide British Gas with an invoice for the engineers work and that 
British Gas has questioned whether the invoice Mr L later provided to this service was 
genuine.
Ive looked at the invoice and also checked the company details and I havent seen anything 
to indicate the company isnt genuine. Im aware that the invoice was produced several 
weeks after the engineer visited, which British Gas suggested was a cause for concern. So, 
Ive thought about this but I dont think the gap between the visit and the date of the invoice 
is enough to persuade me that the invoice might not be valid.
Im also aware that British Gas has said the damage described by Mr L is different to what is 
stated on the invoice. When Mr L first emailed British Gas, he said the engineer:
identified the locking nut located on the top of the water tank underneath a black cap 
signifying the location of the thermostat unit as the problem as it was loose. This has been 
tightened
The engineers invoice said:
Investigate and trace leak, rectify leak on hot water cylinder, leak identified as a loose 
compression nut at the top of the cylinder.
I think, although not identical, these descriptions are consistent with each other. British Gas 
has said that during its investigation Mr L claimed the leak was on the immersion heater. Ive 
looked at all the evidence provided by British Gas. I cant see that an immersion heater is 
referred to in the notes British Gas provided about what happened, other than in its response 
to Mr Ls complaint in which it said:
It is to my understanding you sought advise from a third party engineer who identified a leak 
from the immersion on the top of the cylinder (as original) 
However, even if Mr L did at some point refer to the immersion heater, I wouldnt expect him 
to be an expert on plumbing. Regardless, as Ive already said, I think Mr Ls original 
description of the source of the leak is consistent with what was described by the engineer. 
So, again, I havent seen anything that causes me to think that the invoice wasnt genuine or 
for the works carried out. As a result, I think there is sufficient evidence to show the engineer 
visited and found a leak. 
There was also evidence of staining at both of the British Gas engineers visits, which seems 
consistent with a leak at the time of their visits, even if they couldnt find the source. I also 
think its reasonable that Mr L contacted another engineer because he still had concerns 
about a leak. That engineer found a leak and I think its more likely than not that the British 
Gas engineers missed the leak. So, I think British Gas should refund Mr L for the cost of the 
engineers visit.
British Gas has already paid Mr L compensation. I think that was fair in the circumstances 
and I dont see any reason to increase this amount.  
Putting things right
British Gas must refund Mr L £420 for the cos of the engineers visit.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to refund Mr L £420 for the cost of the engineers visit.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman