DRN-4196540
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his home 
emergency insurance policy and says the compensation offered in respect of this was too 
low.
What happened
Mr K called British Gas in December 2022 after discovering a leak from his hot water tank. 
An engineer came round to inspect the tank and said it would have to be replaced and he 
would order a new one. As it was just before Christmas, they werent sure how long it would 
take to arrive.
There continued to be problems with water leaking and Mr K called British Gas again. There 
was another visit on 30 December when the tank was replaced. However, Mr K still had 
problems with the system after this. Mr K called British Gas on 3 January 2023 but was told 
the next available appointment was 17 January. 
At the next visit the central heating pump was changed. The engineer said if that didnt fix 
the problem Mr K would need to have a powerflush of the central heating system. 
Mr K decided to get another heating engineer who visited and carried out some work, which 
he says resolved the problem. The engineer charged £84 (£70 plus VAT) for this.
When Mr K then complained, British Gas accepted the service it had provided wasnt good 
enough and offered compensation of £60, which it later increased to £200. Mr K didnt 
accept this and referred the complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the compensation should be increased. She said Mr K should be 
reimbursed the cost of the engineer hed instructed and recommended that the 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K be increased to £250.
Mr K was happy with this and accepted the investigators recommendation but British Gas 
hasnt accepted. It says the invoice from Mr Ks engineer doesnt confirm what work was 
done but if further details are given and its satisfied the repair work is something that would 
have been covered by the policy, it would agree to reimburse this. 
The investigator didnt think that was necessary and said she was satisfied the problem was 
only fixed once Mr K appointed his own engineer, so he should be reimbursed for that. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy provides cover for repairs in the event of breakdown or damage to his boiler 
and central heating system. 
Where a claim is made on an insurance policy, the insurer is required to deal with the claim 
promptly and fairly, provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
I dont think theres any dispute that British Gas didnt deal with the claim in the way it should 
have and it has acknowledged this. The issue for me to decide is what would be a fair level 
of compensation.
Mr K first reported the issue in December 2022. Despite repeated visits from engineers in 
January and February 2023 it wasnt fully resolved. In the end Mr K found someone else 
who was able to resolve it for him. British Gas has questioned the work carried out by that 
engineer but the invoice shows it concerned the same issue that had been reported to British 
Gas. On balance, Im satisfied it was the same problem that British Gas had been unable to 
resolve. In the circumstances its fair that Mr K is reimbursed for this  he shouldnt be out of 
pocket as a result of his claim not being resolved.
Mr K has explained the worry this all caused him. The tank had leaked and caused damage, 
and he was understandably worried it would happen again. He had to switch the boiler off 
when he was out. It was winter, so when he came home the house was extremely cold. Ive 
considered the impact this had and the fact this went on for many weeks. In the 
circumstances I think £250 is a fair amount to acknowledge the amount of distress caused 
during that time and the trouble he was put to in having to arrange numerous visits and then 
find another engineer before the problem was finally put right.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay to Mr K:
£84 for the cost he incurred together with simple interest at 8% from the date he paid 
that bill to the date it makes payment; and
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman