DRN-1472968
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy We Fight Any Claim Ltd (WFAC) are charging them a fee for a 
packaged bank account (PBA) claim they said they didn't authorise them to make.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr and Mrs T said they'd signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
WFAC to pursue payment protection insurance (PPI) claims on their behalf. Mr and Mrs T 
said they thought they'd only agreed to a free PPI check and didn't want to make a 
PBA claim. 
They also said WFAC's website was mis-leading as it said they'd make a customer aware if 
it was found they had a PBA before WFAC would pursue a claim. But Mr and Mrs T said  
they'd only  been made aware after the PBA claim was successful and WFAC charged them 
their fee. 
WFAC said the LoA covered both PPI and PBA claims. And Mr and Mrs T in signing the 
LoA had agreed to their terms and conditions. And in January 2018, Mr T had completed 
their PBA questionnaire and agreed to them pursuing their PBA claim. WFAC said the 
PBA claim was successful so their fees were justified.
Mr and Mrs T didn't agree and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said he hadn't been able to listen to the call where the questionnaire was 
completed as this was no longer available. But he had seen the scripts WFAC used for these 
calls. And said these were clear as to it being a PBA claim and that Mr and Mrs T had 
agreed to the claim being made.
Mr and Mrs T didn't agree, and added that they hadn't been made aware of any cancellation 
process. They asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
The crux of Mr and Mrs T's complaint is that they hadn't authorised WFAC to pursue a claim 
for their PBA. And that WFAC had mis-led them after they had gone onto their website for 
only a free PPI check.
I have looked at the LoA, Mr and Mrs T signed in September 2017 and the  terms and 
conditions that accompanied it. The LoA  is headed with the name of Mr and Mrs T's  lender 
I'll call them "N". And says "This Letter of Authority relates to all products and accounts I/we have, or have had, with 
you."
And it was with lender "N" Mr and Mrs T had a PBA.The LoA also says Mr and Mrs T had 
read and understood the terms and conditions. I have looked at these, and they refer to a 
claim being made for PPI and PBA. But  they go on to say that:
"If our free PPI check or any other check indicates that any PPI or PBA products were sold 
to you we will contact you to discuss the circumstances surrounding the sale of them".
And this is what WFAC said it did in the call made in January 2018 when they completed the 
PBA questionnaire with Mr T.
As our investigator found, the call where this was discussed isn't available. So I have to 
decide on what I think would most likely have happened during this call. I have seen the 
scripts WFAC has said their agents have to adhere to. And I have no reason to doubt this is 
what they do.
I can see the agent would introduce themselves as a PBA claims handler. And says that the 
information will be used to make a PBA claim and what fee WFAC would charge.
I have also looked at the questionnaire that was completed in the call. And can see a 
declaration I would expect to have been read out to Mr T that says:
"Before speaking to We Fight Any Claim I wasnt aware that this account could have been 
mis-sold to me. If I had thought that this packaged bank account had been mis-sold to me, I 
would have complained sooner. The packaged bank account was a waste of money as far 
as I am concerned. I am complaining about all of the packages I have had."
So I'm satisfied that during this call and by completing the PBA questionnaire Mr and Mrs T 
were aware WFAC would be pursing a PBA claim on their behalf.
Mr T said lender "N" contacted him in February 2018, and he'd completed the PBA 
questionnaire with them. But I've seen a letter WFAC sent to lender "N" in January 2018, 
after the call with Mr T,  that included the questionnaire  and LoA. And the confirmation letter 
lender "N" sent to WFAC as the representatives of Mr and Mrs T saying the claim was 
successful.
Mr and Mrs T said they hadn't been made aware of WFAC's cancellation process and if they 
had they would have cancelled their agreement with WFAC. The terms and conditions have 
a section "Your right to cancel". This explains about cancellation within 14 days and what 
happens if cancellation is after 14 days. There is also a cancellation form within the terms 
and conditions that would need to be completed. So, I'm satisfied WFAC's cancellation 
policy was clear for Mr and Mrs T to see. 
The agreement Mr and Mrs T signed was based on " No Win No Fee" This means WFAC 
could only ask for their fee, if the PBA claim was successful. And the claim was successful. 
So I'm satisfied their fee is due.
The terms and conditions has a section that outlines the fee WFAC will charge and provides 
examples of what would be paid. The fee is 33% inclusive of VAT.
I know Mr and Mrs T will be unhappy about my decision. But I'm satisfied they were aware 
that WFAC had made a PBA claim on their behalf. And that they hadn't cancelled their 
agreement with WFAC. So, I'm satisfied WFAC can charge its success fee.My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman