DRN-2417473
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave him
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream were not wrong to approve Mr Ss loans. Mr S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
and form part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr S took six instalment loans from Lending Stream between April 2018 and March 2020.
A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending Stream
can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of 
Instalments*Amount 
BorrowedHighest Combined 
Monthly Repayment
1 06/04/2018 23/08/2018 24 £310.00 £142.46
2 14/09/2018 01/03/2019 24 £200.00 £77.30
3 13/11/2019 16/11/2019 24 £200.00 £78.45
4 05/01/2020 outstanding 6 £400.00 £129.47
5 19/03/2020 20/03/2020 6 £200.00 £201.46
6 21/03/2020 outstanding 6 £100.00 £165.03
*Loans 1-3 were to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments. Loans 4-6 were to be repaid in six
monthly instalments.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think Lending Stream were
wrong to lend to Mr S, based on the information it gathered about Mr Ss financial
circumstances at the time of each application.
It appears that Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed and
provided the following comments;
Lending Stream did not check his credit score, because if it had done, it wouldnt
have agreed to the loans.
Mr S has another complaint, against a different lender that has been upheld and the
circumstances are the same in the other complaint as they are for the Lending
Stream loans.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr S could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. And I dont think Lending Stream were
wrong to approve Mr Ss loans. Id like to explain why.
Loans 1 and 2
When Mr S applied for these loans, Lending Stream asked him to declare his monthly
income and expenditure for each loan. Mr S declared that he had a monthly income of
£2,000 and £2,200 for loans 1 and 2 respectively, and his monthly expenditure amounted to
£450. This would have left him with a monthly disposable income of no less than £1,550.
Mr S has told us he feels Lending Stream did not check his credit score because if it had
done, Mr S says it wouldnt have approved his loans. The information provided by Lending
Stream shows it completed a credit check at the time of Mr Ss second loan application.
These credit check results showed Mr S had four active accounts at the time with
outstanding balances of £1,100, and none of his accounts were defaulted or in arrears.
Lending Streams credit checks didnt show what these individual accounts were, and if they
included outstanding payday loans. Therefore, having thought about the information LendingStream were presented with, along with Mr Ss credit score, I dont think the results
warranted further checks into his circumstances or wouldve led Lending Stream to have
declined Mr Ss application for credit.
Overall, I think Mr S was left with a sufficient monthly disposable income of which to meet his
repayments  the highest collective monthly repayment being £142.46. This was Mr Ss first
two loans with Lending Stream, so it was very early on in the lending relationship. And there
was nothing in the information it gathered that suggested he wouldnt be able to meet the
contractual repayments for both loans. So, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to
approve them.
Loans 3-6
Firstly, I would like to start by saying Im satisfied there are two lending chains  loans 1 and
2, and loans 3-6. I say this because Mr S took out loan 3 more than eight months after he
repaid his previous loan. And I think this amount of time was sufficient enough for Lending
Stream to have reasonably assumed that Mr S financial position had changed. So Lending
Stream could treat these applications afresh.
Lending Stream completed a similar level of checks for these loans, but without completing a
credit check. Ive considered the information Mr S told the lender about his circumstances. It
seems that Mr Ss declared monthly income fluctuated as he declared his income was
between £1,500 and £3,200 for these loans.
For loan 3, Mr S declared his monthly income was £3,200 but within two months, his
declared monthly income had dropped by more than half to £1,500 for loan 4. I think the
sudden drop in income may have concerned Lending Stream, and it should have done more
to understand more about Mr Ss circumstances. It also seems at the same time, a similar
percentage drop was recorded in his expenditure.
But Mr S hasnt provided his bank statements showing what his income was at the time he
took out these loans. So, I cant make a finding that further checks would have made a
difference.
It appears that Mr Ss income increased for loans 5 and 6 as he declared he had a monthly
income of £2,700. And after his declared monthly expenditure was taken into consideration
for each loan, he had a disposable income of no less than £1,200.
The information Mr S declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have
been an accurate reflection of his actual financial circumstances. But I think Lending Stream
was entitled to rely on the information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what
Lending Stream knew about Mr S, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the
information Mr S told it.
I acknowledge that Mr S has had some of his other complaints upheld at this service against
other short-term lenders. But we look at each case on its own individual merits. We also
have to take into account the information a consumer provided the lender at the time as what
the lender knew about the consumer at time. Other factors that we also consider included
the valve of the loan and the term.
So while I acknowledge Mr S has received a different outcome on a different case, Im
satisfied that based on what Ive seen that Im not able to uphold his complaint against
Lending Stream.
Based on the information Lending Stream gathered about Mr Ss circumstances, I dont thinkit was unreasonable that Lending Stream made the decision to lend. I understand that my
findings are likely to disappoint Mr S, but I hope my explanation will help him understand
why Ive reached this conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Lending Stream nor Mr S provided me with any new information after receipt of the 
provisional decision. 
I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. I 
still dont think Lending Stream was wrong to have provided Mr S with any of the loans.
But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly in any action it may take to 
recover the outstanding balances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman