DRN-2320468
The complaint
Mr M and Miss S have complained about the way Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Morag 
Finance) has dealt with their mortgage account whilst they have been in arrears. They are 
unhappy about the interest rate applied to their account (currently 2.55%), monthly arrears 
fees, and contact from Morag which Mr M and Miss S say is bullying and harassment. Mr M 
and Miss S are also unhappy that information about arrears has been registered with credit 
reference agencies (CRAs).
To settle the complaint they want Morag to refund fees and charges on their account, lower 
their interest rate and to stop charging them for making payments other than by direct debit. 
They also want Morag to agree to their proposals to clear the arrears.
What happened
Mr M and Miss S have a mortgage originally taken out in 2007 with another lender but now 
owned by Morag. They borrowed £278,955 plus £649 fees over a term of 25 years, on a 
capital repayment basis. The mortgage was on a fixed rate until 30 September 2009, after 
which it reverted to a variable rate of 2.45% above Bank of England Base Rate. 
In October 2017 the mortgage was transferred from the original lender to Morag, with Morag 
agreeing to honour a six-month interest-only concession that had been put in place in June 
2017. Since that concession expired the mortgage has been on a capital repayment basis.
Unfortunately the mortgage has fallen into arrears. Over the years there have been 
discussions between Mr M and Miss S and Morag about paying these off, but it hasnt been 
possible to come to an arrangement, due to affordability. Temporary concessions have been 
agreed, including a payment holiday due to coronavirus. But Mr M and Miss S feel Morag 
hasnt done enough to help them.
In December 2019 a 56-day possession order was granted by the court. At the time, Mr M 
and Miss S had a buyer for their property. Due to the pandemic, the sale has fallen through. 
Mr M and Miss Ss financial situation has worsened. Morag is taking no action, in line with 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance relating to helping borrowers during the 
pandemic.
The complaint history 
In February 2018 Mr M and Miss S complained to Morag about the mortgage. The complaint 
was about the following:
the account should be interest-only rather than capital repayment;
the mortgage is unaffordable;
Mr M and Miss S are unable to remortgage due to adverse CRA information and want 
Morag to offer them another mortgage;
Mr M and Miss S disputed the arrears balance;
due to stress, they wanted to communicate only by letter or email.
A final response letter was issued by Morag on these issues on 18 April 2018. Morag didnt 
think it had acted unfairly. The letter said that Mr M and Miss S had six months to bring their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In August 2019 Mr M and Miss S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the 
way Morag had dealt with their account. As well as the issues listed above, they are 
unhappy about the interest rate of 2.55% on the mortgage, which they say is far higher than 
other lenders are charging. Mr M and Miss S say Morag hasnt helped them and made their 
financial difficulties worse by applying fees and charges to their account. They also say they 
are being penalised because they dont pay by direct debit.
Morag didnt consent to us looking at the issues covered in the final response letter dated 
18 April 2018. The investigator was satisfied these issues were out of time and there were 
no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay. She looked at what had happened since 
18 April 2018 and made the following findings.
The interest rate is being charged in line with the terms of the contract, at 2.45% above 
Bank of England Base Rate (which is currently 0.1%, giving an interest rate of 2.55% on 
the account). This is what Mr M and Miss S agreed to when they took out the mortgage.
Although the investigator initially thought some fees should be refunded to the account, 
after looking at the payments that had been made more closely, she was satisfied these 
had been fairly charged. She didnt think Morag needed to refund these.
The investigator was satisfied Morag had treated Mr M and Miss S sympathetically and 
fairly in relation to the way it dealt with the arrears.
Mr M and Miss S also raised a further complaint, which Morag responded to and so the 
investigator dealt with it as part of this complaint. Mr M and Miss S were worried about 
becoming homeless following the court granting a possession order in December 2019. The 
investigator didnt think Morag had acted unreasonably in pursuing court action, given the 
position on the account. 
The investigator also noted that in January 2020 Morag had accepted Mr M and Miss Ss 
proposals to repay the arrears of almost £9,000 by paying £200 per month, plus the current 
instalment. She thought this was fair, based on the information provided at the time about 
Mr M and Miss Ss financial circumstances.
Mr M and Miss S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans 
review. They maintain theyve not been treated fairly by Morag and that they are being 
ripped off due to the interest rate being charged by Morag.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im satisfied we cant consider any of the issues raised by Mr M and Miss S in their 
2018 complaint, addressed in Morags final response letter dated 18 April 2018. The 
complaint wasnt brought to us within six months of the date of the letter, Morag hasnt 
consented to us looking at those matters (and, to be clear, it doesnt have to) and there are 
no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay.With regard to issues that have arisen since 18 April 2018, Ive reviewed everything thats 
happened. Having done so, Im satisfied Morag isnt treating Mr M and Miss S unfairly.
Mr M and Miss S are very unhappy at the interest rate applied to their mortgage account. 
Mr M and Miss S feel they are being ripped off because they think this is a much higher 
interest rate than other lenders are charging. Mr M and Miss S are aggrieved because, due 
to the arrears, they cant move to another lender which could offer them a better interest 
rate.
The interest rate is fixed by the mortgage contract, which states that the reversionary rate is 
2.45% above Bank of England Base Rate. As Base Rate is currently 0.1%, the interest rate 
on the mortgage is 2.55%. 
Ive looked at the reversionary rates applied by several other major mortgage lenders. These 
are as follows:
Halifax 3.74%
Barclays 4.74%
HSBC 3.69%
Nationwide 3.59%
Santander 4.34%
Kensington 4.40%
Given this, I dont think an interest rate of 2.55% is higher than other lenders are charging. In 
the circumstances, Im unable to find that Morag is, as Mr M and Miss S believe, ripping 
them off by charging them 2.55% on their mortgage. I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Ive reviewed the arrears fees applied by Morag since April 2018. These are detailed in the 
investigators correspondence, copies of which both parties have, so I wont repeat the 
details here. Having looked at the payments due, payments made, the account terms and 
conditions and the tariff of charges, Im satisfied that the fees since April 2018 have been 
fairly applied. I havent seen any evidence to show that Morag is charging a fee for payments 
made other than by direct debit. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
In relation to the complaint about how Morag has handled the arrears, the starting point is 
that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those facing financial 
hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles underpinning the 
mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. I see that 
Mr M and Miss S have provided us with extracts from the regulations in support of their 
argument that theyve not been treated fairly. 
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
A permanent transfer of a mortgage to interest-only would only be a viable option if there is 
evidence of a repayment vehicle to repay the capital at the end of the term, e.g. an ISA, pension lump sum or savings. Otherwise, a transfer to interest-only, whilst alleviating 
financial difficulties in the immediate term, would be detrimental to consumers at the end of 
the term if they have no way of repaying the mortgage.
I dont think any deferral of interest or capitalisation of arrears would help Mr M and Miss S. 
Thats because, ultimately, the unpaid interest would need to be repaid, and capitalised 
arrears would lead to increased mortgage repayments. In the circumstances, these options 
are likely to be unaffordable. Overall, Im satisfied Morag has fulfilled its obligations, in line 
with the requirements of MCOB. Ultimately, the court was satisfied of this too, as it would not 
otherwise have granted a possession order in December 2019.
I note that there have been short-term concessions and that Morag is abiding by the FCA 
requirements that lenders take no action during the current pandemic. I am very sorry to 
note that Mr M and Miss Ss financial circumstances have worsened, through no fault of their 
own. I have no doubt that this is a very stressful time for them.
I would remind Morag of its obligation to treat Mr M and Miss S fairly and sympathetically 
when looking at their circumstances and any payment proposals, and to take into account 
any revised FCA guidance on arrears-handling and possession during the current, 
unprecedented, situation which is affecting Mr M and Miss S significantly.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr M and Miss S were hoping for. I can see that they have 
done their best to overcome difficulties which have largely been outside their control. I am 
truly sorry if my decision adds to their distress. But after reviewing the evidence, Im unable 
to find that Morag has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is as follows:
I have no jurisdiction to consider the complaint addressed in the final response dated 
18 April 2018;
I do not uphold any other part of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman