DRN-3496022
The complaint
H, a charity, complains that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc declined its business 
interruption insurance claim, made for losses relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the relevant events to date. H operates as 
a church and held a policy underwritten by Ecclesiastical. The policy provided a number of 
areas of cover, including for loss of income. Ive referred to this cover as being for business 
interruption as the loss of income relates to an interruption of insured business. 
In March 2020, H was forced to close its premises for most activities. H contacted 
Ecclesiastical to claim for its losses. Ecclesiastical declined the claim. It said the cover 
provided by the Prevention of access - Non-damage extension to the business interruption 
section of the policy contained a carve out (exclusion) relating to claims caused by an 
infectious disease. And the Specified Disease cover was limited to a specific list of diseases 
that did not include COVID-19. So, this did not cover the claim either. 
H was unhappy with this, and brought its complaint to this service. However, our Investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed with Ecclesiasticals reasoning and 
said it had acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. 
H remained unsatisfied and so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on H, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover H is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy H took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Hs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Hs business. 
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ts claim. And I think 
Ecclesiastical acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Hs claim under this area of cover. 
H has not appealed the finding on this aspect.
One of the extensions to this cover relates to disease. But this cover is limited to a specified 
list of diseases, which does not include COVID-19. I agree with the Investigator and 
Ecclesiastical that this list is exhaustive, and that as it does not include COVID-19, it does 
not provide cover in the current claim. H does not dispute this either. 
However, H has strongly argued that the Prevention of access  Non-damage extension in 
its policy does provide cover in the circumstances. 
Prevention of access  Non-damage 
This extension provides cover for, in part:
Access to or use of the premises being prevented or hindered by
(a) any action of government, police or a local authority due to an emergency which 
could endanger human life or neighbouring property
This would seem to fit the circumstances around the Governments actions in relation to the 
pandemic where these had a relevant impact on a business, so it might initially seem this 
provides relevant cover. However, these actions were taken to control the spread of 
COVID-19, an infectious disease. And the policy goes on to say the extension does not 
cover:
Closure or restriction in the use of the premises due to the order or advice of the 
competent local authority as a result of an occurrence of an infectious disease
This wording refers to the actions of a competent local authority, and I note the relevant 
actions were those of the Government. H has said that this means the actions of the 
Government that led to its interruption are not removed from the cover provided by the 
extension. H has said that the wording is ambiguous.
However, in coming to my decision, I am required to take into account, amongst other things, 
the relevant law. The wording used in this policy was considered by the High Court in the 
FCA Test Case (The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors 
[2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm)). The parts of this judgment that were not appealed currently 
constitute case law that I consider relevant.
H is aware of the relevant wording of this judgment, so I have not set this out in detail. But H 
has queried how the Government and the competent local authority can be deemed the 
same. 
This is due to the context given by the rest of the policy. It is necessary to consider the meaning of a term in relation to the rest of the contract it 
appears in. And the court in the FCA Test Case set out its reasoning for how the interaction 
between the Prevention of access  Non-damage and the Specified Disease extensions 
meant that, in the context of this policy wording:
the phrase competent local authority means whichever authority is competent to 
impose the relevant restrictions in the locality on the use of the premises, including 
central government.
The court set out a number of reasons for coming to this conclusion. One of the key ones 
being that interpreting the term to be limited to local authority action, would mean the policy 
offered unlimited central governmental cover in respect of all infectious disease, but local 
authority cover carefully confined to specified disease. And that this would not have made 
commercial sense, nor been the interpretation of a reasonable person, with all the relevant 
background knowledge, at the time the policy was entered. It is this context, rather than the 
words in isolation, that are key to the interpretation of a policy.
Taking this into account, and considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
Ecclesiastical were entitled to say that this extension did not cover the circumstances of Hs 
claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Ecclesiastical should have met Hs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for H, but I hope Ive provided it and its trustees with a thorough explanation of 
why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman