DRN-2514526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc lost two cheques worth nearly £2,400.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a joint current account with Santander. In May 2020, they each received 
a cheque for a four-figure sum, with a combined value of almost £2,400. Mrs P paid them 
both into their Santander account in mid-June, at the post office. It is not in dispute that the 
cheques then went missing, and they have never been found. Santander tried to find them, 
but in July it admitted it could not, and told Mrs P that she and her husband would have to 
obtain new cheques from the relevant third parties. Santander apologised and paid £100 into 
the account.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mrs P brought this complaint to our Service, and she 
represents her husband in this complaint. She says the cheque to her (for over £1,400) was 
a refund for a holiday which was cancelled due to Covid-19, and she was anxious that the 
holiday company might go out of business and not be in a position to send her a new 
cheque. She emphasised that the two cheques were worth a considerable amount of money, 
and that their disappearance was stressful. She said she had made a lot of phone calls to 
both Santander and to the holiday company. For these reasons, she argued that £100 was 
not enough.
Our investigator accepted these arguments, and recommended that Santander pay Mr and 
Mrs P an additional £150, in addition to the compensation it had already paid. He also 
recommended that Santander pay another £15, being a fee that was charged for reissuing 
one of the cheques.
Santander did not accept that opinion. It suggested that if Mrs P had really been worried 
about the risk of the holiday company going out of business, then she would not have waited 
nearly a month to pay in its cheque. It said it had been her choice to keep phoning 
Santander after Santander had promised to contact her once it had a meaningful update to 
give. Once Santander had advised Mrs P to obtain new cheques, the new cheques 
appeared to have been delivered promptly, and both cheques were deposited successfully. 
Santander agreed to pay the £15 fee, but argued that £115 was fair compensation. This 
case has therefore been referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen enough evidence to be satisfied that replacement cheques were issued and 
successfully paid into Mr and Mrs Ps account with another bank in August. So I can infer 
that the original cheques would have cleared if they had not been lost. It isnt clear if their 
loss was the post offices fault or Santanders, but Santander has not argued that it should 
not be held liable for what happened, and I think Santander was right to concede that. 
I therefore only have to decide what is fair compensation for what went wrong.
I agree that £100, or £115, is not enough to compensate Mr and Mrs P for the loss of the 
cheques. £2,400 is a significant sum, and it took nearly two months for the matter to be 
finally resolved, during which Mr and Mrs P must have been caused some anxiety. So I think 
it would be fair to increase the amount somewhat.
However, I am also persuaded by Santanders arguments that this complaint may not merit 
as much compensation as £265 in total. The fact that Mrs P waited about three and a half 
weeks to pay in her cheque from the holiday company does not support her case that she 
was anxious to clear the cheque before that company became insolvent. And while I do 
understand why she kept calling Santander, I still agree with the banks point that it should 
not be held responsible for those calls, since it was still investigating and it contacted her 
once it had concluded its investigation. Balanced against those considerations are the fact 
that she had to keep calling the holiday company to get the new cheque, and that as the 
Covid-19 crisis continued her concern about whether a new cheque would be issued may 
reasonably have increased over time.
Having regard to all of these factors and arguments, I currently think that another £75 
compensation, plus a refund of the £15 fee, in addition to the £100 already paid, is fair (a 
total of £190).
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander accepted my decision. Mr and Mrs P did not respond. So there is no reason for 
me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs P 
£90, in addition to the £100 it has paid them already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman