DRN-3584249
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about loans granted to her by Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G). She says 
that L2G shouldnt have agreed to the loans because they were unaffordable for her.
 
Mrs N has brought her complaint to us via a claims management company but for simplicity I 
will refer to her throughout. 
What happened
L2G agreed two loans for Mrs N in 2016, one in April and a second in September. The first 
loan was repaid with some of the capital from the second loan. I understand Mrs N had 
taken out earlier loans with L2G: one in February 2013, a second that September and a third 
in August 2015. My decision deals with the two loans taken out in 2016 and some of the 
information L2G provided about them is shown in the table below (all figures rounded to the 
nearest pound).
Loan Start date End date Principal Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)Total 
repayable
1 06/04/2016 05/09/2016 £1,200 £165 36 £5,952
2 05/09/2016 23/08/2019 £1,700 £234 36 £8,432
These two were log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that Mrs N 
provided L2G with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Mrs N didnt make her loan 
repayments L2G could potentially recoup any losses through the sale of her vehicle. 
Mrs N says that L2G didnt look into her finances properly before lending to her and, had it 
done so, it would have seen that the loans were unaffordable for her and that she was 
having problems managing her money. She says she had a lot of existing debt, was 
borrowing from several other lenders and wasnt meeting her repayments on time. 
L2G says it conducted an affordability check and took into account Mrs Ns credit 
commitments and her monthly expenditure. The loans were issued when it confirmed 
beyond reasonable doubt that they would be affordable for her and would not put her in a 
more difficult financial position. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened when each of Mrs Ns loans were 
agreed. They found that L2G should have seen from the information it had that Mrs N 
wouldnt be able to afford the repayments for these loans. So they recommended that her 
complaint be upheld. 
L2G didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint about her loans. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for L2G and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come 
to this conclusion.
L2G  will be familiar with the regulations in place at the time so I will summarise its main 
obligations. L2G needed to check that Mrs N could afford to meet her repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing each loan. In other words, it needed to check that she could meet 
her repayments out of her usual means without having to borrow further and without 
experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The necessary checks 
needed to take into account both the nature of the credit (amount, term etc.) and Mrs Ns 
particular circumstances. 
The overarching requirement was that L2G needed to pay due regard to Mrs Ns interests 
and treat her fairly. The Consumer Credit (CONC) handbook paragraph 2.2.2G  gave an 
example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit 
agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, 
age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ns applications to satisfy itself that she would be 
able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make fair 
lending decisions with the information it had gathered?
Mrs N told L2G that her net monthly income was about £1,173 including £82 a month in 
benefits when she applied for her first loan,. She said her monthly living costs came to £535 
and her monthly credit commitments came to £107, a total of £642. Mrs N also said she was 
unaware of any county court judgements (CCJs), bankruptcy or arrangements with other 
creditors. L2G checked Mrs Ns payslips and her credit file and has provided copies of both. 
L2G said in its final response to Mrs N that it used national statistical datasets to check 
expenditure information, and where there was a difference between what the customer said 
and its estimate, it used the higher figure. L2G told us that it didnt see any clear indications 
that Mrs N was in financial difficulty when it carried out its assessments and, even though 
Mrs N had open commitments, it was evident from her credit file that she was managing 
these properly and keeping on top of her payments. L2G also said that there was no adverse 
information on her file in terms of an inability to handle her credit commitments.
In some cases, I might consider that these checks were proportionate and Ive gone on to 
review the information L2G gathered. The payslip from March 2016 confirmed Mrs Ns 
wages, however the credit report shows that:
Mrs Ns total debt was over £10,000 most of which was in default and owned by 
debt collection agencies; 
She had 31 active accounts, 10 of which had been opened within the last six 
months;
Shed had two accounts marked as delinquent and one as defaulted all in the last 
12 months;
Shed taken out a £5,000 loan in August 2014 with monthly payments of £197, 
although it seems she was making payments of varying amounts towards this. I dont agree with L2Gs view of this information and I think it ought to have raised serious 
concerns about Mrs Ns ability to manage further debt. Contrary to what shed said it seems 
Mrs N had an active CCJ. She also had existing debts amounting to about half of her annual 
salary and wasnt managing to repay these. Mrs N said the purpose of the loan was for a 
holiday so it seems to me that agreeing to this would commit Mrs N to spending almost 40% 
of her income on debt each month, and this doesnt include any payments towards the 
defaulted debts she had or her CCJ. 
Altogether, I think L2G should have seen that Mrs N was having recent problems repaying 
her existing debts and so it was likely shed have difficulty repaying further credit. I dont 
think L2G should have agreed credit for Mrs N under these circumstances and so I think it 
was irresponsible to have done so. 
About five months later, Mrs N applied for another loan. As before, L2G asked Mrs N about 
her income and expenditure and checked her payslips and some of her bank statements. 
Again, in some cases, I might consider these checks to be proportionate and Ive reviewed 
the information L2G gathered.
L2G recorded Mrs Ns income as about £1,406 including benefits and other income, and 
her expenses as £822, including £172 of financial commitments (which I dont think includes 
her existing loan from L2G or her August 2014 loan mentioned above). Mrs Ns payslips 
show that her income was below £1,000 for two of the three months due to a number of 
deductions, including an attachment of earnings for £257. It seems to me that 
Mrs N was spending at least a third of her means on repaying some of her existing debts 
and agreeing this loan for her potentially committed her to spending almost half her income 
on debt. 
Mrs Ns bank statements should have raised further concerns for L2G. The copies L2G has 
provided show payments amounting to £65 a month to eight different debt collection 
companies, and weekly payments of £54 and £66 to two high cost lenders, over £500 a 
month. I think L2G had enough information to show that Mrs N was overcommitted and that 
further lending was irresponsible. I dont think any further enquiry would have reassured L2G 
that she would be able to afford repayments for this loan in a sustainable manner, for 
example, I can see from a copy of the credit file Mrs N provided that shed taken on further 
credit since her April loan.  
In summary, L2G should have seen from the information it had when Mrs N applied for her 
loans in 2016, that she would not be able to meet her repayments for them in a sustainable 
manner, given her existing debts and how she was managing these. It shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to her under these circumstances and now needs to put things right for her. 
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mrs N repays the principal she borrowed on her loans as shes had the 
use of this money. However, I dont think Mrs N should be liable for any interest or charges 
on these amounts or have her credit record adversely impacted. 
In order to put things right for Mrs N, L2G needs to:
a) Refund to Mrs N all payments she made above the principal amounts she borrowed 
for the two loans taken out in 2016;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they were 
paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about these loans from Mrs Ns credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs N 
a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited for the reasons Ive explained 
above and require it to put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman