DRN-3302065
The complaint
Mr N complains about Studio Retail Limited trading as Aces (Ace) refusal to give him the 
refund he has requested. He also complains it has acted unfairly in pursuing him for a debt.
What happened
Mr N has a running account credit account with Ace. In August 2019 Mr N purchased a 
phone from Ace using credit from this account. 
In February 2021 Mr N complained to Ace about the phone. It appears that the phones 
screen had been damaged by accident and had cracked as a result. However, Mr N 
suggested that the fact that the screen had cracked in these circumstances showed that the 
phone was substandard, and he held Ace responsible for this. Mr N contacted Ace and let it 
know that he wanted to return the phone to it on this basis and get his money back. 
But Ace saw things differently from Mr N. Ace told Mr N not to return the phone to it as it did 
not agree it was responsible for what had gone wrong with the phone. However, Mr N 
decided to return the phone to Ace anyway using a courier firm. At first, Mr Ns position was 
that the phone had been delivered to Ace and he had information that showed this. His 
position has now changed, and Ill go mention this further below.
Mr N had not finished paying for the phone at this point, and Ace asked him for payment in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mr N indicated that he was unhappy that 
despite his misgivings about what had happened to the phone, Ace was still chasing him to 
pay for it. Mr N indicated that this was inappropriate behaviour on the part of Ace. 
For all of these reasons Mr N complained to Ace.
In response Ace repeated it was not responsible for the problem with the phone. Further it 
denied it had ever received the phone. Moreover, it did not accept that Mr N had sent it 
information to show the phone had been received by it. Further, Ace did not agree that it had 
no proper basis to pursue Mr N for payment for the phone. 
For all of these reasons, Ace declined Mr Ns request for a refund, and it declined to stop 
pursuing him for payment.
Dissatisfied, Mr N complained to our service.
Once the complaint was with us Mr N told us that the courier had lost the phone in transit, 
but he wanted Ace to take responsibility for this because he suggested Ace had provided the 
return label. Moreover, Mr N also told us that Ace had agreed to refund him in full and then 
withdrew the offer. We asked Ace about this and it indicated it had no record of sending Mr 
N a return label. Further it reiterated that it was not prepared to give Mr N a refund in relation 
to this purchase and neither had it ever offered to do so. 
In addition, Mr N raised a new issue about the information Ace had asked the credit 
reference agencies to register on his credit file about how he had managed his account. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint. He did not recommend upholding it.
Ace accepted our investigators recommendation Mr N did not. In summary, Mr N repeated 
his previous stance. Later, seemingly without conceding he did owe Ace the money, Mr N 
offered to short settle his outstanding debt with Ace, that is he offered to pay Ace less than it 
says he owes it. Mr N told us he had already made this offer to Ace directly but wanted us to 
put forward the same offer to Ace again. Although it appears that Ace had already recently 
rejected his offer.
Mr N indicated that he wanted an ombudsman to take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr N being identified.
As I mentioned earlier Mr N has now raised an issue about the information that has been 
registered on his credit file in relation to his account with Ace. This appears to be a new 
matter and has not been considered by Ace in its final response to Mr N or investigated 
within this complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this new matter in this decision as I 
dont have the power to do so.
Ace has acted in two capacities here, both as a retailer and as a regulated provider of 
regulated finance. In particular, when Ace sold the phone it did so in its capacity as a retailer. 
Similarly, when Ace spoke to Mr N about why it would not accept the return of the phone it 
was acting as a retailer. And though he may not have realised it when Mr N tried to return 
the phone to Ace, he was relying on rights he might have had against Ace as a retailer. 
However, when Ace asked Mr N to pay his debt under the running account credit account it 
was acting as a regulated provider of regulated finance. Its important that I underline this 
distinction because it has an impact on what I can and cannot look at in this decision.
I recognise that Mr N is unhappy about the quality of the phone when he bought it and about 
what happened when he returned the phone. However, these are issues that relate solely to 
Aces role as a retailer. This service does not have the power to look at complaints about 
Aces activities as a retailer. We have made this point to Mr N on several occasions. I 
understand from Mr Ns perspective it seems unfair that we cant deal with these points. But 
for the reasons Ive already mentioned I cannot go into any further detail about these points 
and I can make no findings about them.
That said, we do have the power to look at Aces actions when it acted as a regulated 
provider of regulated finance. The finance agreement Mr N entered into with Ace is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints 
relating to it against Ace. Specifically, that means I can look at the part of Mr Ns complaint 
where he complains about Ace pursuing him for payment for the phone under the 
agreement. However, and I know this is likely to disappoint Mr N, I dont agree Ace acted inappropriately 
here. I say this because, I think it is reasonable to assume as a starting point, that when a 
person enters into an agreement, as Mr N did  then they understand the terms of the 
agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. As it stands, Mr N bought the phone 
using credit provided by Ace. He has not paid it this money back as he is contracted to do 
under the agreement he entered into with Ace. It follows that as the debt is outstanding, Ace 
can ask him to pay it. 
Mr N suggests that at one point in time, Ace agreed to refund his money and then went back 
on that promise. Ive looked at all the information provided about this including the texts from 
Ace that Mr N places particular reliance on. But based on what Ive got, Ace had agreed to 
give Mr N a refund for a totally separate matter. I take on board that Mr N thought this was 
an admission from Ace that it was going to give him the refund he has requested for this 
complaint. But I dont agree that anything Ace did reasonably gave that impression.
Mr N has asked Ace to accept less money that it says it is owed. He does not tell us why he 
is prepared to pay this amount or how he worked out that the sum he has offered is fair. I 
have found that I have no fair or reasonable basis for asking Ace to stop chasing him to pay 
the full debt. It follows I cannot compel Ace to accept Mr Ns offer as I have no proper basis 
to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman