DRN-3621634
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Grove Pension Solutions 
Limited (Grove) in January 2018 to transfer the value of her safeguarded benefits in the 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mrs O is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative).
What happened
Mrs O had built up safeguarded benefits in the BSPS while employed by Tata Steel UK Ltd 
(Tata Steel). The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members.
In March 2016, Tata Steel announced that it would be examining options to restructure its 
business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. By that 
point, Mrs O had built up about 11 years pensionable service in the BSPS.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, the BSPS issued its Time to Choose communication pack to members 
including Mrs O. This explained that BSPS members had three options regarding their 
safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP (the transfer value available to 
Mrs O was £95,188.04)
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mrs O to retain guaranteed lifetime income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. Members that didnt choose an option remained in 
the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF.
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mrs O contacted a local independent 
financial adviser (IFA) for advice. The IFA introduced Mrs O to Grove in January 2018 to 
provide pension transfer advice. Grove recorded the following information about Mrs O and 
her husband:
She and her husband were both aged 32 and in good health. They didnt have any 
children or other people financially dependent on them;
She was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£20,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £160,000 and cash savings of 
about £2,500;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £106,000 on their marital home 
which was due to be repaid in about 15 years time when they would be aged 47;
They had surplus disposable income of about £1,000 available every month;
In addition to the value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, she was on course 
to receive the full state pension at age 68 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme provided by Aviva since April 2017. The 
total annual contribution into her DC plan was 16% of her gross annual salary; 
She had very little knowledge and experience of investments;
She had an Adventurous risk profile; and
Her two main objectives in connection with her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS 
were to retire early at around age 58 and to maximise the death benefits available to 
her husband in the event of her earlier death.
In January 2018, Grove issued its suitability report to Mrs O recommending that she transfer 
the value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP to achieve her key objectives to 
retire early and to maximise death benefits, along with some other general objectives.
This complaint
In 2022, the Representative, on behalf of Mrs O, complained about the suitability of Groves 
pension transfer advice. It said that the advice was unsuitable and had caused her to suffer 
a financial loss.
Grove didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it was satisfied that the pension transfer to 
the PPP enabled Mrs O to achieve her recorded objectives and was therefore suitable. 
However, to bring this matter to a close, it offered Mrs O a payment of £20,000 as a gesture 
of goodwill. Mrs O rejected the offer. She asked us to look into this complaint at which point 
Grove withdrew its offer.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in his view, Grove had failed to demonstrate at the time that transferring to the 
PPP was clearly in Mrs Os best interests to achieve her objectives. Given Mrs Os age, he 
didnt think there was any pressing need to transfer to a PPP at that time. He thought 
suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that Grove carry out a redress calculation in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) guidelines on the basis that Mrs O transferred to the BSPS2, took 
benefits at age 65 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he 
recommended that Grove pay Mrs O £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by its unsuitable recommendation.
Grove disagreed with our investigators assessment and, with the support of an external 
consultant, provided additional comments in response. Our investigator considered those 
comments but wasnt persuaded to change his view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Grove requested that this complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. 
While this complaint was in the queue awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, Grove 
contacted us in July 2023 to say it had changed its mind and accepted the investigator's 
assessment. It stated, we will therefore abide by the adjudicator decision to conduct a 
redress calculation using current FCA PS22 methodology. It said it would contact Mrs O to 
obtain the necessary information to carry out the loss assessment. 
This complaint was recently allocated to me for review. Based on the available evidence, it 
appeared that there hadnt been any meaningful progress in resolving the matter since 
Grove made its offer in July 2023. So I informed the Representative and Grove that if I 
wasnt provided with confirmation by 12 October 2023 that they had resolved the matter 
informally, I would proceed to issue my final decision upholding this complaint on the basis 
that Grove has conceded and is prepared to calculate and settle any redress due in line with 
PS22/13.
The deadline of 12 October 2023 has passed. As at the date of this final decision, I havent 
received confirmation from the parties that this complaint has been resolved. So Ive decided 
to proceed and issue my final decision. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Given that Grove previously told us that it accepted the investigator's assessment and 
recommended remedy, I dont see the need to address the suitability of its pension transfer 
advice to Mrs O in detail. However, I would like to state that I agree with the investigators 
view the pension transfer advice Grove gave to Mrs O was unsuitable for largely the same 
reasons. In summary:
Mrs Os safeguarded benefits, accounting for about 11 years pensionable service, 
represented the backbone of her retirement provision built up by that time. I think its 
fair to say that when she came to retire, she would be reliant, in some part, on the 
value of her safeguarded benefits to generate a minimum level of core income to 
support her standard of living in retirement. So I think it was important not to expose 
the value of these benefits to unnecessary risk;
Grove recorded that Mrs O had very little knowledge and experience of investments. 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks being 
transferred from the scheme to Mrs O. Those risks wouldve been retained by the 
BSPS2 had she transferred to that scheme. Taking these factors into account, its my 
view that there needed to be a compelling reason why it was suitable for an 
inexperienced investor like Mrs O to transfer to the PPP compared to the alternative 
option of retaining guaranteed lifetime income under the BSPS2;
At the time of the advice, Mrs O was aged 32. She couldnt access any benefits until age 55 at the earliest under the PPP. It was recorded that she wanted to retire early 
at around age 58. Her annual retirement income need at that age was recorded as 
£30,000. The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to 
establish a realistic income figure and whether early retirement would in fact be 
possible. And in Mrs Os case, I think it wouldve been difficult to calculate an 
accurate figure with such a substantial timeframe until age 58. Groves external 
consultant agreed that the timescale involved meant there was an obvious 
uncertainty at the point of advice in quantifying Mrs Os retirement objectives. In my 
view, with such a time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed and the level 
of uncertainty involved in quantifying objectives, it made the case for a pension 
transfer at that time  for the sake of achieving possible early retirement  more 
difficult to justify;
Had Grove advised Mrs O to transfer to the BSPS2 she wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if 
then deemed suitable, when she could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine her retirement income and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than 
at age 32;
Theres no real evidence that Mrs O required the flexibility of irregular lump sums, 
variable income or staggered income during retirement. Flexibility and control might 
sound attractive, but I cant see that Mrs O had any concrete need for it. She had 
received guaranteed income all her working life. So I think an element of guaranteed 
retirement income wouldve been valuable for an inexperienced investor in Mrs Os 
circumstances. But even if she did require flexible benefits, I think this couldve been 
provided by her DC workplace plan provided by Aviva. She joined that scheme in                
April 2017 and the total annual contribution was 16% of her gross annual salary. It 
was noted the value of her plan was then about £3,000 and that she intended to 
remain employed by Tata Steel. So, by retirement, I think its likely shed have access 
to a significant DC fund to meet any flexible retirement needs, further undermining 
the case for a pension transfer at that time; 
A change in the format of death benefits was Mrs Os other key objective for 
transferring to the PPP. While I understand that death benefits are important to 
consumers, the priority here, in my opinion, was to advise Mrs O about what was 
best for her own retirement provision. Withdrawing money from the PPP to meet 
income and lump sum needs from age 58 would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected. I cant see that this was explained to Mrs O. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mrs O had no health 
issues at the time Grove advised her which might reasonably have prompted her to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to her own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for her husband. Notwithstanding this point, through her 
employment, Mrs O had death in service life cover based on a multiple of four times 
her salary which would be paid to her husband in the event she died while still 
employed by Tata Steel. In addition, the value of her Aviva DC plan would be 
payable to her husband as a tax-free lump sum. So its clear her husband would 
receive a large (relative to their wider financial situation) lump sum death benefit from 
other sources in the event of her earlier death. And if this was deemed insufficient, 
the substantial surplus disposable income they had available couldve been used to 
obtain life cover to provide a lump sum on death;
Grove recommended the transfer to the PPP to remove the risk that Mrs O might be 
transferred to the PPF at a later date. While I understand that Mrs O may have been concerned about the security of her safeguarded benefits, I dont consider a transfer 
to the PPF was an outcome for her to avoid. Under the PPF, Mrs O wouldve 
received a minimum of 90% of her scheme pension. This contrasted with the 
recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. 
If Mrs O was concerned about her safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF 
which would result in her losing 10% of her scheme pension, then I question why, as 
an inexperienced investor, she would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP and 
invest on an Adventurous basis which exposed her to unlimited downside risks 
where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%; 
For the reasons stated above, I dont think there was any need to transfer at that 
time, especially given the critical yield figures attached to the transaction. These were 
6.98% on the basis Mrs O took a full pension at age 65 or 6.20% on the basis she 
took a reduced pension and tax-free lump sum at age 65. But Mrs O was looking to 
take benefits at age 58. So I wouldve expected Grove to have calculated the critical 
yield figures at age 58 to enable Mrs O to make an informed decision. But it appears 
it only calculated and presented the figures at age 65 in the suitability report. I think 
this was a material oversight because the critical yield figures at age 58 wouldve 
been higher (compared to at age 65) due to the shorter investment timeframe and 
impact of the initial advice charge on the required growth rate. This meant that Mrs O 
wasnt provided accurate information about the level of investment growth required in 
the PPP to match the scheme pension if she took benefits at age 58; and
Overall, I dont think the contemporaneous evidence supports the position as to why 
Mrs Os early retirement and death benefits objectives wouldve been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for her to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees by transferring 
to a PPP at that time. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the pension 
transfer to the PPP led to Mrs O gaining any clearly defined advantage compared to 
the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. As a result, I think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Mrs O, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice she was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mrs O wouldve transferred to the 
BSPS2 and her benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. While some information on 
the benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that by January 2018 the 
risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent following the 
announcement by the PPF in May 2017 that the terms of a RAA had been agreed. So I think 
Grove shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable option. So, in addition to the PPF, I think 
its fair to consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2018 that the PPF was the 
likely better option for Mrs O. And so I think, given her age and the lack of clarity surrounding 
when Mrs O would retire, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for her based on what was 
known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher level of benefits 
than the PPF. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. For clarity, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Grove should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Representative on behalf of Mrs O 
and our service upon completion of the calculation.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Os 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
calculate and offer Mrs O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs O before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her PPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs O receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mrs O accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs O for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs O as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Grove may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mrs Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Grove should pay Mrs O £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation, as recommended by our investigator.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Mrs O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mrs O any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mrs O any interest as 
set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Mrs O the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs O. 
If Mrs O accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs O 
can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs O may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman