DRN-3260356
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed her bank accounts 
without proper notice or explanation. This left her unable to access her funds.
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties and arent in dispute. So, Ill only detail 
them briefly. Mrs M had a number of NatWest accounts, including a Help to Buy ISA. The 
bank carried out a review of her accounts, and made the decision to close them, giving 
Mrs M 14 days notice. They also asked her to repay the outstanding balance on a credit 
card. Mrs M complained to NatWest, but the bank didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Mrs M referred the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked at what 
happened. They felt that while NatWest could close Mrs Ms accounts, they should have 
provided more than 14 days notice. After discussions with NatWest the bank offered £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. The investigator also thought that NatWest 
should arrange to reinstate the Help to Buy ISA, as these were no longer available, along 
with any interest due. 
The bank agreed with this. But Mrs M disagreed, saying the closure had caused a great 
impact on her health. She didnt think the way NatWest handled the closure had been fair 
and had left her at a deficit trying to repay her bills. She said she couldnt make use of the 
Help to Buy ISA anymore, as she didnt have the money to pay in to it. She requested 
NatWest reopen the account and repay what she would have paid in since the account was 
closed.
Because no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied NatWests offer of £200 compensation and the re-opening of 
the Help to Buy ISA is fair. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs M, but Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, its been accepted by NatWest that it wasnt appropriate to only give Mrs M 14 days 
notice before closing her account, and to restrict activity right away. The terms of Mrs Ms 
accounts allowed NatWest to close the account for any reasonable reason, so long as they 
provide 60 days notice. They can give less notice in some circumstances, but its now clear 
these circumstances didnt apply in Mrs Ms case.
NatWest didnt carry out much in the way of an investigation before making the decision to 
close the account to satisfy themselves they were acting in line with their own terms. Had 
they done so, they may have made a different decision on the closure, although this isnt 
certain. But in any case they should have provided Mrs M the full 60 days notice before 
closure, giving her more time to make other banking arrangements.
Turning to the Help to Buy ISA, NatWest could have also taken in to account that Mrs M 
wouldnt have been able to get the same product elsewhere, as the scheme was closed to 
new applicants. This should have given the bank further caution before deciding to close it.
Im satisfied that NatWest had the right to close Mrs Ms account  banks arent obliged to 
provide accounts to consumers. And generally unless theres a very good reason to do so, 
our service wouldnt require an account to be reopened or compensation paid for an account 
being closed. But I find the manner in which they closed Mrs Ms account was unfair to her. I 
can see this has caused her a degree of distress and inconvenience and its right that 
NatWest compensate her for this.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of the shortened notice on Mrs M. I understand she 
couldnt make payments for bills while NatWest were withholding her funds, and also 
couldnt attend the branch to collect the funds as she was isolating. This meant she couldnt 
access her money for several weeks after the account was closed off. She had to arrange to 
borrow money from a relative to get by. And this could all have been avoided if NatWest had 
given her the proper notice period to make other arrangements.
Mrs M did open an account elsewhere within two weeks of the account closure, so Im 
satisfied she wasnt left without banking facilities for an extended period. Shes highlighted 
bills and charges that were missed at the time because she didnt have access to funds. But 
these payments were always due to be paid, and could have been made up once NatWest 
had released the funds. It wouldnt be fair for me to ask NatWest to cover these costs.
It would have been impossible for Mrs M to open a Help to Buy ISA with another provider as 
the scheme had been closed to new applicants. So, I think NatWests offer to reinstate the 
ISA is reasonable. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs M doesnt feel she is in a position to make use of it. But payments 
can still be made in to Help to Buy ISAs until November 2029, so she may be able to make 
use of it in the future. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to ask NatWest to pay the £200 monthly ISA payments 
as from what shes told us it seems unlikely Mrs M wouldve been able to keep up these 
payments had the account remained open. So, I dont consider this to be a loss caused by 
NatWest.
Ive also considered the impact Mrs M has highlighted on her health and wellbeing, and I 
sympathise with the difficulty NatWests decision caused her. Its clearly caused her a great 
deal of upset and worry at a particularly difficult time, especially in the wider context of the 
pandemic. But having reviewed the evidence thoroughly, I think £200 is a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the distress caused by NatWest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mrs M £200 for the trouble and upset of not giving her adequate notice of the 
account closure. The bank should also reinstate Mrs Ms Help to Buy ISA and pay the 
interest that would have been accrued since it was closed.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman