DRN-2896936
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) declined transactions on his debit card causing 
him some inconvenience. Mr L would like Lloyds to ensure that this doesnt happen again , 
to compensate him for the time and inconvenience caused, and to apologise.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the view reached by our investigator for the following reasons:-
Mr L feels Lloyds made a mistake in blocking his payments, but I dont agree. Lloyds 
has explained that it declined a debit payment Mr L attempted due to a fraud 
assessment check, and that such checks can take place at any time. Ive seen its 
terms and conditions which allow it to block payments if it has concerns. Such checks 
are in the interests of consumers to prevent fraud.
Its unfortunate that a second debit payment was declined .Lloyds explained it 
contacts customers by text message when an account is blocked but couldnt contact 
Mr L by this means. As Mr L didnt report the first failed transaction the block 
remained until he did so. I appreciate that was inconvenient, but I dont think Lloyds 
were wrong to not allow a second payment to be made until Mr L contacted the bank
Its not for us to tell businesses what fraud prevention systems to use so I cant 
reasonably tell Lloyds to not block any future transactions Mr L makes  and I dont 
believe it would be in Mr Ls interests for me to do so. 
I do appreciate Mr L was put to some inconvenience having to go into a branch. And 
whilst there it took a little while to unblock his account. However, I dont feel any 
compensation is appropriate as Lloyds were unable to contact Mr L by its usual 
means to advise him of the block. 
I do appreciate Mr L is a long-standing customer of Lloyds but as I dont think Lloyds 
have done anything wrong, I dont think I can reasonably ask the bank to apologise to 
Mr L as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman