DRN-3138958
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank Plc blocked and closed his bank account. And didnt 
return money which was in the account to him. He says this caused him inconvenience and 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with Barclays. 
On 15 May 2020, two payments totalling just over £4,500 were made into Mr As account. At 
the time Mr As balance was just over £790.
Mr A says he received the payments from one of his students who asked him to transfer the 
money onto other accounts. Mr A says he didnt have any concerns about the money, and 
believed the request was all above board as his student had called him to make the request. 
However, Mr A subsequently discovered that his student had been the victim of a scam and 
had transferred the funds on the instructions of a fraudster. 
Barclays received notifications from other banks each saying that their customers had been 
the victim of an impersonation fraud. And had sent money to fraudsters which was then 
forwarded onto Mr As account. Mr A then transferred the money out to other accounts. 
Barclays placed blocks on Mr As account, whilst it investigated the reports from the other 
banks. Barclays completed its investigation and returned what was left of the fraudulent 
payments back to source. Following this, on 27 May 2020 it decided to close Mr As account 
immediately. 
Mr A complained to Barclays. He said he hadnt done anything wrong and had been an 
unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds. He said he wasnt able to pay his bills and lost out 
on making a profit on money he had invested in the stock market as he wasnt able to 
access his account. Mr A also said he couldnt pay his rent and was forced to move to a less 
comfortable flat which had damp issues. He says Barclays's actions caused him a great deal 
of stress and anxiety, and he had to borrow money from friends which was embarrassing. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked Mr As account. But it 
reviewed its decision to close Mr As account on the basis of Mr As explanation about the 
money which was paid into his account. The bank accepted Mr A hadnt done anything 
wrong and decided to reopen his account on 4 June 2020. It apologised to Mr A for closing 
his account and offered him £200 compensation for any trouble and upset this had caused 
him. 
Mr A said Barclays offer doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes 
been caused by the bank blocking his account. To put things right, Mr A wants Barclays to 
pay him £1,000.00 compensation. And, he wants the money (just over £600) which Barclays 
returned to the other banks refunded to him. Hes said this money belongs to him. So, he 
brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into what had happened.  
The investigator said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Mr As account. 
And had it had done so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. She said 
under the terms of Mr As account Barclays werent liable for his loss of profit. And she said 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when it had sent money in Mr As account back to the 
to the other banks.
 
Mr A disagreed. He wants the money that was in his account returned to him.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, and the evidence. Mr A and 
Barclays have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those 
which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr A that Ive read the file, 
including his comments and evidence.
Ill deal first of all with Barclayss decision to restrict Mr As account whilst it looked into the 
concerns expressed to it by the other banks about payments Mr A had received into his 
account. Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances for Barclays to have acted in the way that it did. Fraud is a serious matter, 
and one way banks can help to tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when 
allegedly fraudulent payments are received into them. And thats what happened here.
Barclays has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats 
in line with what most banks would do in the same situation. And it enabled Barclays to 
consider how best to react to the reports it had received from the other banks.
The timing of Barclayss actions was unfortunate. Mr A was hoping to use his account and the 
funds in it to make some investments at the time. And he needed to be able to meet the cost 
of his everyday living expenses including paying his rent. So, I can understand why he found 
this experience with Barclays stressful and upsetting. And why he wants the bank to pay him 
compensation.  
But as the investigator has already explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays was 
complying with its obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr As account. So, whilst I accept 
this caused Mr A inconvenience, I cant say Barclays treated him unfairly when it blocked his 
account. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr A compensation since I dont find 
the bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.  
The crux of Mr As complaint is that Barclays havent given him access to the money he had 
in his account. And have returned it to source  in other words sent the money back to 
another account. Mr A says that the money (just over £600) belongs to him and he wants it 
back. 
Barclays was told by other banks that their customers were the victim of a scam and 
provided Barclays with information to show Mr A wasnt entitled to the £2,500 that was paid 
into his account. Having looked at the information, Im satisfied that Mr A received fraudulent 
funds into his account. I can also see that when this money was paid into his account Mr A 
already had money in his account. And that Barclays returned the fraudulent funds back to 
source so that it could be returned to the victims of the scam.  Mr A says the funds Barclays returned belonged to him. So, Barclays had no right to take it. 
But Im afraid I have some bad news for Mr A. As the investigator has already explained to 
Mr A, Barclays were following the Claytons Rule commonly known as the first in first out rule 
when it removed the money and sent it back to source.  This says that each withdrawal is 
presumed to be a return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that the oldest 
deposit is withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first.
When Mr A received the £2,500 into his account, he already had a balance of just over £930 
in his account. So, when Mr A transferred £2,508 (in total) out of his account the money he 
transferred out was deducted from Mr As original balance (his money) leaving a balance 
made up of the fraudulent funds. What this means is Mr A sent his own money to the 
accounts nominated by his student. And the fraudulent funds were left in his account. So, I 
cant fairly conclude that Barclays should return it to Mr A as hes not entitled to the funds. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr As account. Barclays closed Mr As account on 
27 May 2020 and reopened it on 4 June 2020  Mr A was able to use his bank card by 10 
June 2020. So within around two weeks Mr As bank account was functioning normally.
I can see that Mr A made several phone calls to Barclays and that he had to repeat what had 
happened to his student (whod apparently been acting on the instructions of a fraudster) 
and that he had to reorganise his finances. So, Ive no doubt this caused him a good deal of 
frustration and worry. And Im satisfied he suffered unnecessary trouble and upset. Barclays 
accepts it shouldnt have closed Mr As account and could have dealt with things better. It 
apologised, reopened Mr As account and offered him £200 compensation. 
I appreciate Mr A was left in a difficult situation as a result of Barclayss actions  And I know 
Mr A wont agree, but in all the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that Barclays 
offer of £200 is fa air one and Im satisfied the bank has done enough to put things right. So, 
I wont be asking them to do anything more to resolve Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, if it hasnt already done so Barclays Bank Plc should pay 
Mr A £200 compensation for closing his bank account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman