DRN-3921016
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mrs H, as Attorney for her father, Mr S, acting under a Lasting 
Power of Attorney. 
Mrs H has complained on behalf of Mr S that an equity release mortgage was mis-sold to 
him by Key Retirement Solutions Limited trading as Key Retirement (and referred to here as 
Key).
Mrs H says that someone should have had a duty of care to Mr S as a customer, because 
the rate of interest is very high. Mrs H also wants a will trust that was dissolved at the time 
the mortgage was taken out to be reinstated, and for the interest rate to be reviewed. Mrs H 
says that the lender (which I will call AER) has refused to review the interest rate.
What happened
I do not need to set out the history of the matter. There are several reasons for this. First of 
all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the investigators 
letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr S or Mrs H 
being identified. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
Briefly, in 2015, after taking advice from Key, Mr S took out an equity release mortgage with 
AER. I have seen the initial questionnaire that was completed in February 2015, and the 
letter of recommendation Key sent to Mr S. I note from those documents that Mr S told Key 
that his children were all supportive of him taking out the equity release mortgage.
Mr S provided details of his medical history and gave details of his GP so that, if the lender 
needed it, a medical report could be obtained. There were no concerns by Key about Mr Ss 
mental capacity; if there had been, Key would not have been able to proceed with the 
application. I wont repeat all the details of what was discussed between Mr S and Key  
thats all set out in the final response letter and is based on the contemporaneous 
documentation compiled in 2015 at the time of the application.
The lender, AER, accepted the mortgage application and issued an offer to Mr S. Solicitors 
were instructed  Mr S instructing a firm specialising in equity release to represent his 
interests, and AER instructing its own solicitors. 
It was at this point  after the mortgage offer had been issued  that the solicitors became 
aware there was a will trust affecting the legal title to the property. This, I am told, was 
dissolved so that the equity release mortgage could go ahead. Completion of the mortgage 
took place on 22 May 2015, several months after Mr S had initially discussed the matter with 
Key.
In 2020 Mr S granted Power of Attorney to Mrs H. In July 2021 a complaint was made by 
Mrs H to Key on behalf of Mr S that the mortgage had been mis-sold. In its final response 
letter dated 13 December 2021 Key set out the history of the sale, and explained why it 
wasnt upholding the complaint.
Dissatisfied with Keys response, Mrs H brought the complaint to our service on Mr Ss 
behalf. Mrs H said that the interest rate was too high, that Mr S hadnt received any 
documentation for the mortgage and that he hadnt understood the implications of taking it 
out. Mrs H said shed also found a letter from solicitors that said the will trust would need to 
be dissolved, and she believes this should not have been done.
An investigator looked at what had happened. She clarified what Keys role was in the 
transaction (to advise on the mortgage) and what was the responsibility of the solicitors (to 
deal with the legal work, including the will trust). The investigator was satisfied that Key had 
provided Mr S with all the information it was required to do, and that it had considered the 
various options before recommending equity release. Given this, the investigator didnt think 
the mortgage had been mis-sold.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes reiterated all 
her concerns about why she considers the equity release mortgage wasnt suitable for Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under our rules, Mr S is a consumer, and so meets the definition of an eligible complainant 
set out in our rules. The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible 
complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this 
respect, Mrs H is authorised by law under the Power of Attorney to bring the complaint on 
Mr Ss behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mrs H is representing Mr S, it is Mr S who was Keys 
customer at the time of the events complained about. Mrs Hs role as Attorney is to bring 
Mr Ss complaint on his behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a 
solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mrs H to air 
her own grievances about Key because she is not its customer; her role is limited to putting 
forward Mr Ss complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs H has expressed her own concerns about
what she perceives to be Keys failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about
this. But because Mrs H is not Keys customer, this final decision is limited to consideration
of Mr Ss complaint about Key.
Mr S hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mrs H became Mr Ss attorney that a complaint was raised with Key. So in this final decision 
I have looked at the sale of the mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mr S about it, I 
have considered generally whether Key did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken 
out.
Key has consented to us considering the complaint, so I dont need to consider whether or 
not the complaint has been brought outside the time limits specified in our rules.
Ive reviewed all the documentation from the point of sale. The starting point in a complaint 
of this type is usually the point-of-sale documentation from 2015. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous and are therefore most likely to reflect what was said and agreed at the relevant time. Unless theres a compelling reason to believe the 
information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
Here I see that there was a comprehensive fact-find, where Mr Ss circumstances, needs 
and wishes were recorded. The information recorded in the fact-find was confirmed in writing 
to Mr S in a letter of recommendation, setting out why Key had recommended the equity 
release mortgage Mr S took out of about £27,000.
Ill also mention here that, although Mr S initially asked Key to arrange a new will, he didnt in 
fact go ahead with this and the £500 fee for this that was included in the mortgage advance 
was, in fact, refunded. I mention this here because it is a point that Mrs H raised, but the 
evidence satisfies me that this was refunded. The investigator provided Mrs H with 
confirmation of this, so I wont comment any further on this.
There is no reference in either the fact-find or the letter of recommendation to the will trust  
and I would not expect there to be. Thats because a will trust is not something Key would be 
expected either to enquire about or have any knowledge of; it is a legal issue affecting the 
legal title to the property. Any issues affecting the title would not be something I would 
expect a mortgage adviser to be aware of  nor does advising on legal matters fall within the 
scope of mortgage advice. It is precisely for these reasons that equity release borrowers 
need to have their own independent legal advice. 
The will trust affecting the title did not become apparent until a later stage had been reached 
in the transaction  after the mortgage offer had been issued and solicitors for both Mr S and 
AER had been instructed. I understand Mr S had to instruct another firm of solicitors to deal 
with the will trust, as the solicitors hed instructed on the equity release mortgage did not 
carry out trusts work. But whoever carried out this legal work, I am satisfied that this was 
nothing to do with Key. 
There was nothing untoward in Key recommending that Mr S should use solicitors who 
specialise in equity release mortgages  and I see that he was provided with a list of 
solicitors to choose from. These are specialist products, and so its important that advice is 
given by solicitors who have experience in this type of mortgage. Likewise, the solicitors 
instructed by Mr S identified that they did not have the required expertise to deal with the will 
trust, and advised him that he would need to instruct other solicitors to deal with this for him.
Keys role was limited to advising on, and arranging, the mortgage, not advising Mr S about 
legal issues. Thats why he was required to engage his own solicitors. If Mrs H has any 
concerns about the legal advice Mr S was given, shell need to raise this with the solicitors 
who acted for him at the time. 
If either Key or Mr Ss solicitors had had any concerns that Mr S lacked the necessary 
mental capacity to enter into the mortgage, they were under a duty to ensure that the 
transaction was halted. The evidence recorded in 2015 shows that Mr S was frank about his 
health issues, but there is nothing to suggest he lacked the capacity to make his own 
decisions.
Mr S told Key that his children were supportive of him taking out the mortgage. Key was 
entitled to accept what Mr S had told them as being truthful and accurate; if it was not, Key 
wasnt under any duty to make further enquiries or contact family members. That would have 
been both a gross intrusion into Mr Ss privacy as well as a data breach under the Data 
Protection Act (which was the relevant legislation in place in 2015).In addition, Key has no control over the interest rates set by AER; thats a matter for AER 
and its own commercial judgement. But generally interest rates for equity release mortgages 
are higher than the interest rates applied to mainstream mortgages. 
This is because the product is structured to reflect the fact that a lender has lent money over 
a long term with no return on its funds until the mortgage ends  which could be in 25 or 
30 years from the date it was taken out. Im satisfied that in Mr Ss case, the implications of 
this on the overall amount owed are explained clearly in the mortgage illustration provided to 
him by Key.
So when the contract was entered into, AER advanced the funds in the knowledge that it 
would receive no interest or capital for many years. Likewise, Mr S knew he had the use of
the money without needing to make any repayment, with this eventually coming out of the
equity in his home upon his death or if he had to leave the property to go into nursing
care.
If Mr S was unhappy about the interest rate, or if Mrs H says Mr S was never sent any 
information by AER, thats something shell need to take up with AER, as its not the 
responsibility of Key. But as far as the sale of the mortgage is concerned, Im unable to find 
that Key has done anything wrong or that the mortgage was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman