DRN-2919329
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt resolve an issue that 
she had with regard being locked out of her online banking.
What happened
Ms N noticed that she was locked out of her Halifax online banking. Ms N wasnt happy 
about this, so she raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Ms Ns complaint, but they noted that Ms Ns logon details had been 
entered incorrectly which had resulted in Ms Ns account being locked. Halifax also noted 
that Ms N hadnt taken the steps necessary to unlock her account. So, they didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Ms N wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But that noted that Halifax had advised Ms 
N of the steps she needed to take to unlock her account, but that Ms N hadnt taken these 
steps. So, they also didnt uphold this complaint. 
Ms N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have confirmed that Ms Ns online banking account was locked because incorrect 
login details were used to try to access the account. Halifax have also confirmed that Ms Ns 
account had been locked for the same reason on a previous occasion, but that Ms N had 
successfully unlocked the account via a telephone process.
Furthermore, Halifax have also demonstrated that theyve provided information to Ms N 
explaining that her account is locked and advising of the steps Ms N needs to take to unlock 
the account. However, it appears that Ms N hasnt followed these steps, and so the account 
remains locked.
I can understand how this might be frustrating for Ms N, but the restricting of an account 
following attempts to access the account using incorrect information is a common security 
protocol and is designed to protect the account funds from potential unauthorised access. As 
such, this isnt a process that I would consider to be unfair or unreasonable.
Its difficult, therefore, to see what more Halifax can do here, and Id encourage Ms N to 
follow the steps that Halifax have already advised her are required in order to unlock her 
online backing access.
Finally, Ms N has expressed his dissatisfaction at Halifaxs lack of response to her 
complaint. Complaints relating to how a complaint has been handled by a business  such 
as this  lie outside the remit of this service. However, I note that Halifax sent Ms N a final 
response letter approximately four weeks after Ms N raised her complaint. 
It must be noted that business generally have eight weeks in which to issue a complaint 
response, and so I cant concur that Ms Ns complaint wasnt responded to.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Ms N was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to take any further action that this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman