DRN-4144696
The complaint
Mr G complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the way they 
handled his motor insurance claim.
Mr G has been represented by Miss G during the claim and complaint process. For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, and actions taken, by both Mr G and Miss G 
as Mr G throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr G held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, on 16 December 
2022, Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident on the motorway. So, he contacted AIC to 
make a claim on his policy.
AIC instructed Mr G to leave his car in a pub car park and make his way home, which Mr G 
did. And Mr G expected his car to be collected from this location and taken to a garage to be 
repaired, at which time hed be provided with a courtesy car.
But Mr G didnt receive a courtesy car straight away, and it took an extended period of time 
for AIC to provide one. And in late January 2023, when Mr G believed his car to be with the 
repairer, he received a parking fine which suggested his car wasnt in the location he was 
told.
Following this, it was discovered that Mr Gs car hadnt been recovered to a garage as he 
and AIC assumed. And it had instead been stolen. So, AIC processed Mr Gs car as a total 
loss, and paid Mr G the cars pre-accident value. But Mr G wasnt happy about this, or the 
service hed received up to this point. And he made several complaints, set out below as:
The delay in providing Mr G with a courtesy car and lack of communication as the 
start of the claim.
Receiving a parking ticket while the car was in the care of AIC.
The pre-accident value of the car; and
The theft of the car while in the care of AIC.
AIC responded to Mr Gs complaints and upheld them. They agreed there had been a delay 
in providing Mr G with a courtesy car and they paid Mr G a total of £280 to recognise the 
time he was left without use of a replacement car, and the impact their service caused. And 
they accepted responsibility for Mr Gs parking ticket, covering the cost of the ticket in full 
and paying £35 in compensation.
They also accepted Mr Gs car was stolen during their care and recognised the upset this 
wouldve caused. So, they waived Mr Gs excess of £750, resulting in Mr G receiving a 
higher total payment after his existing finance had been cleared. But AIC thought the 
valuation of the car itself was a fair one, and they confirmed they had recorded the claim 
under the initial damage claim, rather than a theft claim. Mr G remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the compensation 
offered for the delays in providing a courtesy car was fair, and in line with our services 
approach. And they were satisfied the value paid for the car was reasonable. But our 
investigator didnt think the £35 compensation paid regarding the parking ticket fairly 
acknowledged the shock and upset this wouldve caused. So, he thought a further £65 
should be paid to fairly recognise this. 
And our investigator didnt think AICs complaint response placed Mr G back in the position 
he wouldve been had the car not been stolen, as he didnt think AIC had considered the 
initial deposit Mr G had placed when taking out the finance agreement, totalling £1,650.58. 
So, he thought AIC should pay Mr G this amount, less the cash settlement he was left with 
after his existing finance had been cleared, and excess been discounted. They calculated 
this payment to be £1,500.68
Mr G accepted this recommendation. But AIC didnt. AIC felt this recommendation placed Mr 
G in a position of betterment, as the claim had been settled as it usually would be, with the 
existing finance being cleared. And AIC felt their waiver of the excess was a more than 
reasonable offer. AIC also felt their offer to recognise the parking ticket was reasonable. So, 
they didnt think they should do anything more. As AIC didnt agree, the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
During my initial review, I recognised our investigators calculations to reach a figure of 
£1,500.68 were incorrect. I wrote to both AIC and Mr G explaining this, providing them with a 
chance to comment on the correct calculations. Mr G accepted the mistake, and confirmed 
he still wished to accept the recommendation, based on the new calculations. AIC provided 
further clarification on the payment Mr G received and reiterated their belief they had acted 
fairly. Ive continued with my decision on this basis.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note that Mr G accepted our investigators initial recommendation. So, I think its been 
accepted by Mr G that the compensation paid by AIC to recognise the delay in being 
provided with a courtesy car was fair. And, that his car was valued fairly, in line with standard 
industry guidelines. AIC havent provided any comments to challenge these 
recommendations either. So, I dont think these complaint issues are in dispute and because 
of this, I dont intend to discuss them in any further detail.
Instead, Ive focused on the main issues that remain in dispute. In this situation, AIC have 
accepted the actions of their recovery agent, acting on their behalf, resulted in Mr G 
receiving a parking ticket and his car being stolen. And theyve accepted that as the recovery 
agent were acting on their behalf, they remain ultimately responsible for their actions.
So, I think its accepted by AIC that theyve acted unfairly regarding both of these issues. 
And, that the main dispute centres around what AIC should do to put things right. So, this is what Ive thought about at length.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr G back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had AIC acted fairly in the first place. In this situation, had AIC acted fairly, I think Mr 
Gs car wouldve been recovered correctly to a garage that wouldve ensured safe storage of 
his car. And had this been the case, he wouldnt have received a parking ticket.
So, I think AIC should cover the cost of this parking ticket, and Im glad to see they have. 
And I think AIC should compensate Mr G fairly for the upset receiving this ticket wouldve 
caused. AIC have paid Mr G £35 to recognise this upset, which they feel is fair. But I dont 
think this payment is enough to recognise the shock and upset Mr G wouldve experienced.
At the time Mr G received the parking ticket, he was told his car was with a garage awaiting 
repairs. So, I think he wouldve been significantly confused when a parking ticket was 
received. And when it became clear this parking ticket was received as his car wasnt where 
he was told it was, I think this wouldve been extremely upsetting and concerning for Mr G. 
While AIC have ensured Mr G hasnt incurred a financial loss because of this, I think the 
shock Mr G wouldve felt initially, coupled with the realisation his car was no longer stored 
correctly and likely being used illegally by someone else, warrants more than the £35 AIC 
have already paid.
Our investigator recommended AIC increase this payment by £65, to £100 total 
compensation for this complaint issue. And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that 
falls in line with our services approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already been 
put forward. So, this is a payment I am directing AIC to make.
And had Mr Gs car been recovered correctly, I dont think it wouldve been stolen. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, including AICs comments and the pictures of the damage as well as 
Mr Gs preference, I think if Mr Gs car had been recovered to the garage as intended, it 
wouldve most likely been repaired.
So, in this situation, Mr G wouldve remained in the finance agreement he had taken out. 
And this finance agreement was calculated including the initial deposit Mr G put down, which 
including a part exchange, totalling £1,650.58.
Because the car was stolen, AIC rightly settled the claim on a total loss basis, as Id expect. 
And Im glad to see this was recorded under the initial claim for damage Mr G made, rather 
than as a theft claim.
But, when settling the claim on this basis, while the existing finance element of £14,131.86 
was cleared, I think this meant Mr G lost use of the initial deposit he placed when he initially 
took out that agreement. And I think he was placed in the position due to the error AIC made 
when not ensuring his car was recovered correctly.
So, in order to place Mr G back in the position he wouldve been in had the car been 
recovered and repaired, I think Mr G should also be placed back into a position where he is 
able to utilise the original deposit he put down.
In this situation, out of the £15,000 payment made for the value of his car, AIC paid 
£14,131.86 of this amount to clear his existing finance, and a further £67.25 to clear the 
remaining premiums on his policy. So, when these amounts were deducted, Mr G received a 
cash settlement of £800.89.But £750 of this £800.89 was attributed to the excess AIC agreed to waive, to recognise the 
upset he was caused by his car being stolen when in their care. I do think this £750 is a fair 
compensatory offer to recognise the shock and upset he wouldve felt, considering his 
feeling towards the car which he describes as his pride and joy. I note AIC feel this offer is 
more than they would usually look to offer, but I think considering the value of the car and 
the fact it was stolen through no fault of Mr Gs own, I think this offer is reasonable and I 
wouldnt deem it to be excessive.
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to consider this £750 as part of the cash settlement 
Mr G received and instead, I have considered this as a separate compensatory payment. 
So, on this basis, I think Mr G was left with a total cash settlement of £50.89.
And as Ive explained above, any direction or award I make is intended to place Mr G back in 
the position he wouldve been, had his car not been stolen. And in that situation, he wouldve 
been in a finance agreement that made use of the initial deposit he put down, totalling 
£1,650.58. So, in order to ensure Mr G is placed back in this position, I think AIC should pay 
Mr G this amount, less the £50.89 hes already received, which calculates as a payment of 
£1,599.69.
I think this provides Mr G with the spending power he had when he took out the initial 
finance agreement. I understand AIC strongly disagree with this, and I want to reassure 
them Ive considered the comments theyve provided explaining this at length.
I recognise Mr G has since taken out a new finance agreement and so, I appreciate why AIC 
believe Mr G had the spending power to take out a new, similar finance agreement. And 
because of this, I can understand why they look at this payment as one that places Mr G in a 
position of betterment.
But ultimately, I dont agree. Whether or not Mr G had the means to take out a new 
agreement on a new car, this doesnt alter the fact he lost the use of the initial deposit placed 
on the agreement for the stolen car, through no fault of his own. As AIC are responsible for 
the loss of this car, and so the end of this finance agreement, I think AIC should be expected 
to ensure Mr G has incurred no form of financial loss, including any loss of spending power. 
So, Im directing AIC to pay Mr G £1,599.69 to adequately address this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr G an additional £65 to recognise the upset he wouldve felt when receiving 
the parking ticket; and
Pay Mr G £1,599.69 to ensure he is placed back in the position he wouldve been in 
regarding his previous finance agreement, and the deposit he put down, had his car not 
been stolen.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman