DRN-1761771
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold them 
two regular monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) polices in conjunction with 
their mortgage.
What happened
In March 1990 Mr and Mrs N purchased a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage. The 
PPI included cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and covered Mr N only. The 
cost of the policy was around £12 each month and it wouldve provided a monthly benefit to 
cover their mortgage payments for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
In July 1997, Mr and Mrs N borrowed some more money and took out a second policy. This 
policy covered Mr N only in the event he wasnt working due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy cost just over £20 each month and it wouldve provided a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
The policies were cancelled when the mortgage was redeemed in November 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ns case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The first policy was taken out more than 30 years ago and the second one just seven years 
later. Both policies were cancelled more than 15 years ago. So unsurprisingly neither party 
has been able to provide much detailed information about the sale of the PPI. And in these 
situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened. 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs N have given their honest recollections of the mortgage 
meetings but I have to accept that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just 
dont have any evidence whatsoever to suggest that the policies werent optional  that Mr 
and Mrs N didnt have a choice in taking them out. So with the very limited information I do 
have and from what I know about Lloyds mortgage PPI sales around this time, I cant fairly 
say that Mr and Mrs N didnt have a choice about taking them.
Lloyds recommended the policies, so it had to take adequate steps to make sure they were 
suitable for Mr and Mrs N. I dont know what the adviser said to Mr and Mrs N about PPI or 
whether Lloyds did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. Because even if Lloyds didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI policies were suitable for 
them for the following reasons. 
Mr N met the PPIs requirements, so was eligible for it. Mrs N wasnt working and she wasnt 
covered by either policy. And Ive set out the PPIs costs and main benefits above where I 
know this information.
Mr N was working in 1990 and 1997, and he says he had some occupational sick pay from 
his employer if he was off work sick; 40 weeks full pay. But if Mr N couldnt work, nothing 
Ive seen suggests its likely they couldve paid the monthly mortgage and their other living 
costs once his work benefits ran out. 
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve paid the monthly 
mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any other 
cover they had. So I dont think Mr and Mrs Ns existing arrangements wouldve made the 
PPI unsuitable.
Nothing Mr and Mrs N told us suggested they needed to keep their costs down. And there 
wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr N to claim. For example, he said 
he was in work and good health when the PPI policies were sold. So he wouldnt have been 
affected by things in the terms and conditions about unusual work or known health issues. 
I cant see that the cost of either policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs N before 
they agreed to purchase it. I dont know they were told the monthly cost until after the 
mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information about 
the cost wouldve affected their decision to purchase the policies.
But they had chosen to take out the policies, knowing they would have to pay something for 
them. The policies were competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
they wouldve made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs N.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. They 
havent told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mr and Mrs N about this. So I 
cant say its likely Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs N everything they needed to know before 
deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr and Mrs N lose out as a result - would they have taken the PPI if Lloyds had 
properly told them about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given their circumstances at the time I think 
Mr and Mrs N wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on 
their home. And that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs N lost out; I think they wouldve taken the PPI if theyd been given 
enough proper information about it. And as they were both regular monthly premium policies, 
if Mr and Mrs N decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that they no longer wanted the 
policies, they couldve cancelled them without penalty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman