DRN-3856729
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) dealt with a claim under his home 
insurance policy for damage to his property caused by a flood.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims.
In making his complaint, Mr S was supported by a representative. References to Mr S 
include his representative.
What happened
In January 2021, at the time of Storm Christoph, there was bad weather that led to flooding 
in the basement of Mr Ss property, to a level of some 0.1m. With help, Mr S was able to 
remove the flood water, but damage was caused to decoration and fittings. Mr S notified 
Lloyds of the damage and lodged a claim. Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster (B) to assess the 
damage. B visited the property the following month and concluded the insured peril of flood 
had damaged the basement. Based on this assessment, Lloyds made a cash settlement 
offer for the repair of the damage the following month. But Bs report concluded that damage 
to the tanking system of the basement (waterproofing protecting the walls) wasnt the result 
of the flooding. Rather, failure was due to the general age, wear and tear of the system. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the settlement and the exclusion of the tanking system, so didnt 
accept it. He said, based on an assessment from a chartered building surveyor (S), the 
flooding had caused a strain on the basement tanking leading to a breach and flooding of the 
basement. B considered this but concluded the tanking system should have been designed 
to withstand the effect of rising flood water, including the associated increase in pressure. In 
Bs view, from the information provided about the age and design, it appeared the tanking 
system had failed (rather than being damaged by the flooding). So, B declined to cover the 
cost of replacing the tanking system on the grounds of gradual deterioration (based on the 
age of the system) and/or poor design or workmanship. 
Unhappy at the decline to cover replacement of the tanking, Mr S initially complained to the 
underwriter of his policy with Lloyds. They didnt uphold the complaint, referring to Bs view 
about the damage to the tanking system not being caused by the flood, but due to gradual 
deterioration and/or poor design or workmanship. Nor did they accept they should pay the 
cash settlement offered (with interest) as Mr S had rejected the offer and (as far as they 
were aware) no repair work had started.
Mr S then complained to Lloyds. But they also didnt uphold the complaint. In their final 
response they said the cash settlement offer was fair, although they accepted it should have 
been paid in March 2021  were it not for the fact that Lloyds didnt think Mr S had shown 
the need for the tanking replacement under the policy. So, they confirmed the decision not to 
cover replacement of the tanking.
Mr S then complained to this service. He didnt accept there were any issues with the 
tanking system prior to the flooding in January 2021, and the basement had subsequently 
flooded again. He thought this showed the tanking system had been damaged by the initial 
flooding, leading to a loss of function. So, the tanking system should be replaced under the 
policy. He also thought Lloyds hadnt demonstrated that the exclusions theyd used to 
decline to cover the tanking system applied. Mr S also thought not paying the initial cash 
settlement (because he didnt accept the position on whether the tanking system should be 
covered) was acceptable. Mr S wanted Lloyds to cover the cost of repairing the damage 
(including replacing the tanking system) together with interest. He also wanted 
compensation for distress and inconvenience from Lloyds declining to cover the tanking 
system and how theyd handled the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Lloyds didnt need to take any 
action. It was accepted damage to the basement was due to the flooding. Having considered 
the evidence, he also concluded it was likely the tanking wasnt fit for purpose at the time of 
the incident and that the failure was more likely due to wear and tear (as water entered the 
basement when it shouldnt have). He concluded Lloyds had, on balance, shown the 
exclusion to decline replacement of the tanking system had been fairly applied.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He provided an opinion from S that the failure of the tanking was due to higher 
than normal hydrostatic pressure on the tanking from the prolonged rainfall at the time of the 
incident and the consequent raised water table level. Mr S also referred to a case study 
published by this service on another case of damage to tanking from a flood, which he 
thought supported his view that Lloyds should cover the cost of replacement. Mr S also said 
the case study indicated - that by not agreeing to cover the replacement of the tanking - 
Lloyds hadnt ensured a lasting and effective repair had been made. Mr s also noted there 
hadnt been any issue with the tanking (or flooding of the basement) prior to the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in the complaint concerns Lloyds declining to cover replacement of the 
basement tanking, on the grounds of policy exclusions for wear and tear and/or poor 
workmanship. Mr S disagrees, saying the tanking showed no issues before the flooding and 
that the flooding caused the damage to the tanking. Mr S also points to other evidence and 
information to support his case, including the opinion of S (that the failure was due to 
increased hydrostatic pressure from the heavy rain around the time of the incident) as well 
as a case study in another case of tanking damage published by this service.
In looking at the case, Ive first considered where the onus lies in cases where theres 
disagreement about the cause of damage and where insurers apply a policy exclusion to 
decline a claim (or part of a claim). 
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, the evidence is there was an insured event (peril) as Lloyds have accepted 
there was damage to the basement from flooding (for which they offered a cash settlement). 
So, Ive concluded an insured event (flood) caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Lloyds 
have done with respect to the tanking) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion 
applies. Looking at the available information and evidence, on the balance of probabilities, I 
think Lloyds have done enough in the specific circumstances of this case, to show the exclusion applies and it was reasonable for them to apply it. I know this will be disappointing 
to Mr S, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
Ive first looked at the grounds Lloyds refer to when declining to cover the replacement of the 
tanking system. Lloyds declined this element on the grounds of gradual deterioration (based 
on the age of the system) and/or poor design or workmanship (and confirmed this decision in 
their final response). In their final response they refer to the following exclusion, in the 
General Exceptions section:
(h) Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation
Lloyds also refer to the following statement under the What is Not Covered heading in 
Section 1 Buildings:
Loss or damage arising from defective design, defective materials or faulty 
workmanship.
Having noted the policy exclusions, Ive gone on to consider the opinions, evidence and 
information provided by Mr S and by Lloyds to support their respective positions. This 
includes the reports and views of B and the opinion of S. As these views differ, Ive had to 
decide  on the balance of probabilities  which is the more persuasive. Ive concluded those 
of Lloyds to be the more persuasive. Ill set out the reasons Ive come to this view. 
In coming to my view, Ive noted the following views and opinions, firstly from B in 
correspondence with Mr S:
It is impossible to prove that there were any pre-existing defects or failure of the 
tanking system; however, the purpose of the tanking is that it withstands lateral force 
and water penetration from rising water tables, any failure to do so would suggest 
that the tanking system has failed and cannot be considered to have occurred as  
result of flooding or sudden rise in the water table.
B also expressed the opinion that:
the system should be designed to withstand the rising water table and any 
associated increased pressureBased on the information provided, the type and 
age of the system installed, it is considered that the system has failed as opposed to 
been damaged by external sources.
Ss view is that the increase in pressure from the heavy rainfall in the time leading up to the 
incident caused the tanking to fail (and the consequent flooding):
The system has been subjected [to] an increase in pressure due to the local flooding 
earlier this year and this has put a strain on the current [tanking] system which has 
consequently resulted in the breach and basement flooding.
B requested more information and evidence from S, to support their view (and evidence the 
damage was due to the increase in pressure) but Ive not seen anything further.
Having considered the information and evidence available, on the balance of probabilities, 
Im more persuaded by Lloyds view, and that theyve acted fairly and reasonably in applying 
the exclusion. From Bs report, the basement was constructed in 1998, some 23 years 
before the incident. Publicly available information on the lifespans of tanking systems indicate an expected life of between 10 and 30 years. I think it likely there will have been 
some wear and tear on the tanking system during that time. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss point about a case study from this service involving damage to a 
basement tanking from flooding (and the insurer declining to cover the damage on the 
grounds of defective design, poor workmanship or gradual deterioration over time). The case 
study notes that while it was likely a degree of wear and tear was present, a lasting and 
effective repair (which would prevent future damage from flooding) wouldnt be possible 
unless the insurer paid for replacement tanking. Even though the likely wear and tear to the 
tanking meant it wouldnt strictly be covered under the policy (and so the insurer would be 
paying to repair damage that wasnt insured).
Ive considered this case carefully, but Im not persuaded it means I should ask Lloyds to 
cover the cost of replacement tanking in the specific circumstances of this case. The case 
study refers to the water table at the property remaining high (so presenting the risk of future 
flooding causing damage if the tanking wasnt replaced). But in this case, while there have 
been further flooding incidents since the original flooding, there isnt evidence of the water 
table remaining high. So, I dont think the two cases are the same, and it doesnt change my 
view that Lloyds acted reasonably in applying the exclusion to decline to pay for the tanking 
to be replaced.
Ive also considered Mr Ss point there hadnt been issues with the tanking (or flooding to the 
basement) prior to the incident. So, the flooding was the cause of the damage (not any wear 
or tear or gradual deterioration). Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded. The 
absence of any issues before the incident (either with the tanking or the basement more 
generally) doesnt of itself indicate there wasnt wear and tear or gradual deterioration. The 
nature of gradual deterioration and wear and tear is it happens over time, eventually 
manifesting itself in a failure or damage. That is, the main or dominant cause of the damage 
isnt the insured event (the flooding) but the deterioration that occurred prior to the incident. 
Given my conclusions about it being likely, on a balance of probabilities, the failure of the 
tanking system was due to gradual deterioration and wear and tear, then the absence of 
issues with the tanking or basement prior to the incident doesnt change my view.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded Lloyds have acted reasonably in declining to 
cover the cost of replacing the tanking system at Mr Ss property, on the grounds of the 
policy exclusion for gradual deterioration and wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman