DRN-4422595
The complaint
Mrs U and Mr U complain about how UK Insurance Limited (Ageas) dealt with a claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by a leak and an ingress of 
water following heavy rain. 
Ageas use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. References to Ageas 
include these agents.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs U and Mr U contacted Ageas to tell them about damage to their 
property, firstly in January 2022 from a leak under a sink damaging the kitchen floor and 
units, and secondly, in August 2022, an ingress of water above a door following heavy rain.
Ageas asked Mrs U and Mr U to provide evidence and a cause of damage for the first 
incident and a quote for the repair work needed. They sent photographs of the damage and 
a quote for repair work, including replacement of all the kitchen units, flooring, tiling and 
worktops at a total cost of £8,690 in October 2022. 
Ageas also appointed a surveyor (C) to assess the damage and validate the claim and a firm 
(B) to validate the quote. C visited the property in late October 2022. Their report noted 
significant damage to the kitchen sink unit and collapsed floorboards underneath, which C 
thought indicated the leak had been ongoing for some time (not a one-off incident) and not 
fixed at the time it occurred. C couldnt see any evidence of repair to the pipework under the 
sink. Given Cs findings, an investigator was also appointed (P).
Following a clarification call with Ageas in November 2023, Mrs U and Mr U provided a 
receipt from a  plumber who fixed the leak. The receipt simply stated fixed leak and a cost 
of £200. Ageas didnt think it provided details of the leak and cause of the damage, so they 
attempted to contact the plumber, by email and writing, to get more information about the 
leak but couldnt contact the plumber or get a response. 
As Ageas hadnt obtained further information from the plumber to validate the claim, they 
declined to accept the claim for damage from the leak (April 2023), as they werent able to 
establish the damage was due to an insured peril (escape of water) rather than a gradual 
operating cause, which wouldnt be covered.
On the second incident, Ageas accepted there was heavy rain at the time of the incident. But 
from the photographs of the damage to the wall above the door, C said the damage wasnt 
consistent with an ingress of water, which Mrs U and Mr U said was caused by a blocked 
drainpipe. C said it appeared the damage was due to a longer standing issue. Ageas 
concluded the damage was due to a gradual cause and longstanding issue which wasnt 
covered under the policy, so they also declined this element (also in April 2023).
Unhappy at the decline of their claim, Mrs U and Mr U complained to Ageas. As well as 
Ageas declining their claim, they were unhappy at the length of time taken to assess and 
decline the claim.
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint in respect of the decline of the claim. In their final 
response, they said they were unable to progress the claim due to the lack of information 
from Mrs U and Mr U. Ageas said theyd tried to progress the claim but couldnt proceed any 
further, nor validate the claim. Any delays were due to awaiting information from Mrs U and 
Mr U. But Ageas did acknowledge occasions where contact with Mrs U and Mr U could have 
been more frequent, so they upheld this aspect of complaint and apologised. 
Mrs U and Mr U then complained to this service, unhappy at Ageas declining their claim. 
Theyd been impacted by the damage to their kitchen, and it was unsafe. They were also 
unhappy at the delay in assessing their claim, which they said was a fake investigation 
taking eight months when the damage was clear. And Ageas had declined the claim on the 
last day of the policy. They wanted Ageas to stop the investigation and honour their 
obligations under the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Ageas acted reasonably in not 
accepting the claim. For a claim to be considered, the onus was on Mrs U and Mr U to show 
an insured event or peril had occurred, or the damage was sudden and accidental. She 
didnt think Mrs U and Mr U had shown an insured event or peril had occurred and caused 
the damage. And the report from C was consistent with the cause of damage for the second 
claim being gradual, not a one-off event. 
Mrs U and Mr U disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked an ombudsman 
review the complaint. On the first incident, tracing and fixing the leak meant dismantling 
cupboards and the sink housing. Ageass surveyor only attended briefly, asking a couple of 
questions, and taking pictures. Theyd paid the plumber £200 to fix the leak and at the time 
were undecided about making a claim as it would have affected the policy premiums. They 
decided to go ahead with a claim following the second incident.
On the second incident, there was heavy rain and theyd noticed water pouring down from 
the ceiling due to a blocked drainpipe on the side of the kitchen wall. So, the damage was 
accidental and sudden. The drainpipe was unblocked by a local builder, at their own cost. 
Ageass technical team had declined to visit the property and hadnt contacted the plumber, 
which Mrs U and Mr U thought indicated they hadnt carried out a proper investigation..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mrs U and Mr U.
Id first want to assure Mrs U and Mr U Ive considered all the information and evidence 
available in this case. This includes the information and evidence they initially provided, 
together with the further representations made in response to our investigators view. Ive 
considered this alongside the information and evidence provided by Ageas. 
The main element of Mrs U and Mr Us complaint is that Ageas unfairly declined their claim, 
for damage caused in two incidents in January 2022 and August 2022. While both incidents 
were reported after the second incident and treated by Ageas as one claim, as the incidents 
are different in nature (and in their occurrence) Ive considered them separately before 
coming to my overall conclusions.
On the first incident, in January 2022, a leak from the sink, Ageas considered this under the 
Escape of Water section of the policy. The policy schedule defines this as:Water that has entered the boundaries of your property by the mains water supply 
and has, at some point on its journey within your home, escaped from the pipe, tank 
or appliance that it was in and caused damage to your home.
While a leak from under the sink would reasonably be held to fall within the definition when 
Mrs U and Mr U notified Ageas of the incident, Ageas asked them for photographs of the 
damage and a cause of damage report, to validate the claim. They also asked for a quote for 
the repair work, for them to assess. Mrs U and Mr U didnt provide this until October 2022 
(photographs and a quote) and December 2022 (invoice from the plumber). 
Only three photographs of the damage to the kitchen were provided, as Mrs U and Mr U said 
the kitchen was in use and to provide more would have constituted a health hazard. Looking 
at the photographs, they appear to be close-up photographs showing some damage. Cs 
report and the photographs taken during the inspection indicate damage to the kitchen sink 
unit, but not the kitchen as a whole. But they dont provide evidence of the precise cause of 
the leak and Cs report indicates the damage from the leak wasnt from a one-off incident but 
had been ongoing for some time. Cs report states:
The kitchen sink unit has been badly damaged by a leak from under the sink and it 
appears that this leak has been ongoing for some time as the floorboards underneath 
have rotted away and collapsed.
It appears that the unit has dropped and the sink has been resealed on the front 
edge meaning that the leak was not repaired as soon as it was noticed.
I can not see any evidence that there has been a repair to any pipework under the 
sink.
The customer did not know when the leak started and said that it was earlier this year 
but did not know when and did not know when a plumber attended.
Cs report includes photographs of the damaged sink and the kitchen more generally. The 
report is clear and covers the points Id expect from a surveyor visit and inspection. Looking 
at the photographs, theyre consistent with Cs findings and conclusions set out above. So, I 
dont agree with Mrs U and Mr Us concern that C only attended briefly, asking a couple of 
questions, and taking pictures.
Turning to the quote provided by Mrs U and Mr U, it is for complete replacement of the 
kitchen, including the units, worktops, flooring and tiling. However, given Cs report and 
photographs and the absence of a clear cause of damage report, I agree with Ageass 
position the claim cannot be validated and Mrs \U and Mr U havent provided sufficient 
evidence of an insured peril. The plumbers invoice, dated January 2022, simply refers to 
fixed leak (and a cost of £200). Theres no detail of the nature, location, or cause of the 
leak. That being the case, I think it reasonable Ageas asked for further detail in order to 
validate the claim, to establish whether there was an insured peril. 
It would have been for Mrs U and Mr U to obtain a detailed cause of damage report, as 
Ageas requested when they were first notified of the incident. But Ive seen no evidence of 
such a report. I can see Ageas tried to contact the plumber directly, through different email 
addresses and by letter, but werent able to contact the plumber or receive a response. I 
think theyve made reasonable attempts to obtain further information and evidence about the 
nature and cause of the leak and the damage. 
Its also not clear to me why, if the damage to the kitchen was as significant as the [partial] 
photographs and the quote for a complete replacement of the kitchen would suggest, Mrs U and Mr U didnt notify Ageas of the incident at the time it occurred (January 2022). And given 
what theyve said about the damage to the kitchen presenting a health hazard. While they 
may have been concerned at the impact of making a claim on their premium, this would be 
equally been true when they notified Ageas of the incident and damage in August 2022.
Ive also noted the Statement of Insurance issued when the policy renewed in April 2022 
includes a heading About claims, incidents and losses (whether insured or not) in the last 
five years. Under which theres a statement No previous claims disclosed. Looking at the 
heading, its arguable Mrs U and Mr U should have disclosed the incident at the time they 
say it occurred (January 2022) rather than doing so in August 2022, as the Statement also 
notes that any changes to the information provided in the Statement should be notified to 
Ageas straight away, and that if any such changes arent notified, this could result in an 
increased premium, refusal of a claim or it not being fully paid, the policy being cancelled or 
being made null and void and treated as if it never existed.
However, Ageas havent sought to use this in their assessment and decline of the claim, so 
Ive not considered this issue in reaching my decision.
Ive also considered the general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or 
loss under a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the 
damage or loss. In this case, given my conclusions above about the lack of evidence and 
detail about the nature and cause of the leak and damage, Ive concluded Mrs U and Mr U 
havent shown there was an insured event (escape of water) that would be covered. 
Having reached this conclusion, Ive also concluded Ageas acted fairly in declining to accept 
the claim on the grounds they hadnt been able to validate it.
On the second incident, Mrs U and Mr U say the cause was a blocked drainpipe, so the 
damage was accidental and sudden. So, it should be covered under the accidental damage 
section of the policy. Looking at the policy schedule, it defines accidental damage as:
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical damage caused by an identifiable 
external means.
While this definition would reasonably be interpreted to include water entering the property 
from an external source (a blocked drainpipe) the accidental damage section of the policy 
also includes exclusions from cover, one of which is as follows:
Your insurer will not pay for:..
1. Damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, rot, fungus, insects, vermin, 
atmospheric or climatic conditions or other damage that happens gradually 
over a period of time:..
Theres also a General Exceptions section which includes the following exclusion:
Your insurer will not pay for:..
3. Gradually operating cause 
Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear or damage that happens 
gradually over time.
C commented on the photographs of the damage to the wall above the door, saying:Reviewing the images of the damage above the rear door this does not align with 
water ingress in late August and would appear to be a longer standing issue.
Considering this alongside the photographs provided, Im persuaded by Cs comment. The 
damage appears significant and its not clear how water from a blocked drainpipe could have 
penetrated the wall and caused the damage shown in the photographs unless there was a 
pre-existing issue with the wall. In the absence of any clear evidence about the cause of the 
damage, Ive concluded Mrs U and Mr U havent shown an insured peril caused the damage. 
So, Ive concluded it was reasonable for Ageas to decline to accept the claim, on the basis of 
a longstanding issue.
Moving to the second main issue, the time taken to assess the claim and then decline it, Ive 
looked at the timeline and sequence of events. From the notification of the two incidents in 
August 2022, Ageas asked Mrs U and Mr U for a cause of damage report, photographs of 
the damage and a quote for repair work. The latter two were provided in October 2022 and 
the plumber invoice in December 2022 (though dated January 2022). Ageas then took time 
trying to contact the plumber for more information. Looking at Ageass final response and 
case notes, they accept they could have been frequent contact with Mrs U and Mr U in 
January 2023 and then in the period to their decline of the claim in April 2023. I think they 
were right to apologise for that.
But looking at the case as a whole, I think the main reason for the assessment and then 
decline of the claim taking the time it did was Ageas not being able to obtain sufficient, 
detailed evidence and information from Mrs U and Mr U to validate the claim. Which Ive 
concluded it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to have requested and to investigate the 
claim further given the circumstances of the claim and Cs inspection and report. So, I wont 
be asking Ageas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs U and Mr Us 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman