DRN-2933642
The complaint
Mrs D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made a mistake with regard to the date 
of a default recorded against her. As a result, she wasnt able to obtain the mortgage she 
had originally been offered and had to take out another one at a much higher rate. Shed 
now like to be compensated for the additional payments shes had to make and for the upset 
and inconvenience caused by this mistake.
What happened
NatWest recorded a default notice against Mrs Ds credit file in 2017. In 2019 one of our 
ombudsmen determined that, while it was reasonable for NatWest to have recorded a 
default, it had made a mistake with the date and directed NatWest to amend the date of the 
default from 6 April 2017 to 20 June 2007.
Following this, Mrs D contacted NatWest to ask it to compensate her for the impact of this 
mistake. She said shed been in the process of buying a house in October 2018 and had 
received a mortgage offer with an initial 2-year fixed term at 1.79%. But this had been 
withdrawn once the credit check revealed the default notice and shed then been forced to 
take out an alternative mortgage with a different lender at a much higher rate. She said the 
difference between the two mortgages over the fixed term was £624 a month and Mrs D felt 
NatWest should refund her this amount.
Mrs D was also unhappy at the way NatWest had handled her complaint about the 
compensation. She said shed contacted it in 2019 but didnt receive a final response. Shed 
then contacted it again at the beginning of 2020. At this point NatWest had in fact sent out a 
response, although to a former address for Mrs D, but it didnt tell Mrs D what it had done or 
contact her again. Mrs D feels this was unreasonable.
Mrs D says that the impact of the original mistake together with Nat Wests poor 
communication and poor customer service has caused her a lot of upset and inconvenience 
for which shed now like to be compensated. She considers £5,000 would be reasonable for 
whats happened.
NatWest said it had amended Mrs Ds credit file and apologised for what had happened. But 
it didnt agree the mistake with the date of the default notice was the only reason the 
mortgage offer had been withdrawn so it couldnt agree to compensate Mrs D for any 
additional payments. NatWest said it had sent a final response to Mrs Ds complaint in 
November 2019. Unfortunately, it had been sent to Mrs Ds previous address by mistake and 
this may have explained why she hadnt received it but by then, Mrs D had referred her 
complaint to this service, so it had felt it reasonable for her to continue with that process.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint in part. She said Mrs Ds credit score had 
improved significantly as soon as the default came off her current credit history so it was 
clear it had had a significant impact on her credit rating. She felt it was reasonable for 
NatWest to compensate her for this and, having considered the impact, she recommended 
£150. But it wasnt clear that the original mortgage offer had been withdrawn only because of 
the default and, for that reason, she couldnt ask NatWest to compensate Mrs D for the 
additional payments shed had to make.
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said, 
because of this default, shed had difficulties in obtaining a mortgage and the only other one 
shed been able to get at this time was at a much higher rate. Mrs D feels that this was a 
direct result of NatWests mistake as to the date of the default and that it should reimburse 
her for the additional payments she's had to make over the two-year fixed term as well as 
compensating her for the upset.
On 22 June 2021 I issued a provisional decision on Mrs Ds complaint, in which I said:
I've seen the information that Mrs D has produced, in particular the notes from her mortgage 
file that show that the default was undoubtedly an issue in her search for a mortgage at this 
time. Ive also seen that, as soon as the date of the default was corrected and it was no 
longer active on her credit file, her credit score increased by over 300 points. Im satisfied 
from this that the default had a significant impact on Mrs Ds credit score regardless of any 
other factors that may have been relevant at that time.
However, there may be a number of reasons why a mortgage offer is declined and before I 
can reasonably ask NatWest to reimburse the difference between the payments, I would 
need to see clear evidence that this default was the only reason the mortgage was 
withdrawn. Ive given very careful consideration to the information Mrs D has provided but I 
cant agree that it shows that this was the only reason the offer was withdrawn. With regard 
to obtaining another mortgage I can see that there were also concerns about the loan to 
value ratio and the amount of credit that Mrs D already had so it seems there may have 
been other reasons as to why the options to obtain a mortgage were so limited.
If Mrs D can provide information to show that the offer was withdrawn because of this one 
issue then I will take it into account in my final decision but on what Ive seen so far, I don't 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct NatWest to pay Mrs D for the 
higher mortgage payments that shes had to make.
However, its reasonable to think that having a default on her credit file would have had a 
negative impact on Mrs Ds ability to obtain credit or to do so at a preferential rate. If the date 
of the default had been entered correctly it would have been shown as coming on to her file 
in 2007 and coming off her file in 2013 when in fact it appeared in 2018 as if it had another 5 
years to run. So, Id agree with Mrs D that this mistake by NatWest would have had a 
significant impact on her and her credit record.
I can understand how upsetting this has been for Mrs D. I can also see that she has had 
some difficulty in obtaining responses from NatWest when she contacted it first about the 
default notice and, subsequently, about compensation for the impact of the mistake. It 
seems NatWest sent its final response in January 2019 to Mrs Ds previous address but 
failed to realise this even after Mrs D contacted it in the beginning of 2020 to question why 
she hadnt had a response. That will undoubtedly have added to her upset and increased 
her unhappiness with the way NatWest has handled this.
Having said that I don't consider I can't agree that this error would merit the sort of 
compensation that Mrs D has suggested. However, after taking into account the impact of 
this mistake, Ive come to a different view than the investigator with regard to the amount of 
compensation that should be paid. In the circumstances I consider that £150 doesnt 
adequately reflect the impact on Mrs Ds credit score or on her personally. For that reason, 
Ive decided to increase the compensation payable for the mistake to £500 which I consider 
more accurately reflects the impact of NatWests mistake.Mrs D hasnt commented on my recommendation. NatWest has responded and accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent seen any new information to cause me to change my provisional 
view.
In 2019 a decision of this office determined that NatWest had incorrectly recorded the date 
of the default it had recorded against Mrs D. NatWest had noted it as having occurred in 
2017 when this should, in fact, have been backdated to 2007. NatWest had complied with 
that decision but Mrs D was now seeking compensation for the impact that this mistake had 
on her, both financially and personally.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I agreed with Mrs D that the default would have 
had an impact on her ability to obtain credit in 2018. This was supported by the fact that, as 
soon as date of the default was corrected and it was no longer active, Mrs Ds credit score 
improved significantly. 
However, as explained in my provisional decision, in order to direct NatWest to reimburse 
the difference in the mortgage payments between the one originally offered and the one 
finally accepted, I would have needed to see clear evidence that this default was the only 
reason the original mortgage offer was withdrawn and that this was the only alternative 
mortgage that was available. 
Ive given very careful consideration to the information provided by Mrs D but it wasnt clear 
in this case that the default was the only reason the original offer was withdrawn. Concerns 
had also been raised in relation to the loan to value ratio and the amount of credit that Mrs D 
already had, both of which may have affected her ability to obtain a mortgage at a good rate.
I havent seen any new information from Mrs D or NatWest to clarify this point and in the 
circumstances, I remain of the view that in the circumstances I cant reasonably direct 
NatWest to reimburse Mrs D for the higher mortgage payments that shes had to make.
Having said that, I consider that it is reasonable for NatWest to compensate Mrs D for the 
very real impact the default had on Mrs Ds credit file before it was amended in 2019. And Id 
agree with Mrs D that in sending its response to her complaint to her old address  and not 
telling her it had done so when she contacted it NatWest didnt deal adequately with her 
recent complaint. 
Theres no precise way of calculating such awards but having taken all of the information 
into account, I consider that £500 is a reasonable sum to reflect the impact that this will have 
had on Mrs D. I realise that this is significantly less than Mrs D was hoping for and I 
understand that she may be disappointed by my decision but I consider that it is fair for the 
upset and inconvenience caused to Mrs D and for the time that it lasted.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay Mrs D £500 for the impact of its mistake.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman