DRN-4101731
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the service TSB Bank Plc (TSB) provided after she fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Where the circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Mrs T 
and TSB wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
Mrs T, who was 71 at the time of the scam, had inherited money from her late mother. She 
says her daughter had recommended that she consider investing her money to build 
savings. So, she carried out some research and found an investment company online. She 
contacted the company by phone and spoke to what is now known to be the scammer.     
Mrs T says he came across very professional and knowledgeable. In September 2017,   Mrs 
T carried out further research and checked Companies House and the UK financial 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) register. The investment company 
appeared on both. So, she was satisfied it was a genuine company.
After several phone calls and correspondence, Mrs T received a detailed brochure outlining 
investment portfolios and returns. Mrs T felt comfortable to proceed, so she made a faster 
payment for £25,000 online on 3 October 2017 from her TSB account to the scammers 
account. On 22 December 2017, Mrs T made a further payment of £10,000. So, a total of 
£35,000 was sent to the scammers account.
At the end of 2018, Mrs T attempted to check on her investments. As such, she typed the 
company name into the internet (in order to get to the login page) and one of the web pages 
which appeared had the word scam displayed on it. Mrs T became concerned, so checked 
the FCA register again where she found a warning that the investment company had been 
cloned. Mrs T says the warning was placed on the FCA register in June 2018, i.e. 
subsequent to the payments she had made the previous year.
Unfortunately, Mrs T suffered a breakdown and found it too difficult to pursue the matter due 
to the loss of her savings. So, she didnt contact TSB until 23 January 2019.
TSB says it immediately contacted the receiving bank, but due to the time that had passed, 
there was no money left in the account. It said there was nothing further it could do, as there 
wasnt enough evidence at the time to alert it to the scam or to suggest it should have 
declined Mrs Ts instructions to make payment.
Mrs T disagrees; she feels TSB should have done more to protect her from being a victim of 
a scam. So, she referred her complaint to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, which 
I will go on to explain. Before I do so, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision 
will be disappointing to Mrs T. But based on the evidence, I am not persuaded that TSB 
ought to refund the disputed transactions. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I understand that Mrs T has said she would like her complaint to be considered in 
light of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). However, as the payments in 
question happened in 2017, the transactions took place before the CRM Code came into 
effect (as this took place in 2019). So, our service cant consider the complaint in line with 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model.
Its not in dispute that Mrs T authorised the payments in question. She sent two faster 
payments totalling £35,000 to the scammer. While I accept that Mrs T didnt intend for her 
money to go to the fraudster, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mrs T is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance as the payments were authorised by her. 
This remains the position, unless there is sufficient evidence that TSB should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to protect her, e.g. by failing to act on clear triggers of unusual 
or uncharacteristic activity on the account.
To put it another way, TSB has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one 
of the reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. TSB needs to have systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers are at risk 
of fraud (amongst other things). With that in mind, Ive considered whether TSB should have 
considered these payments as being so unusual or uncharacteristic that it ought to have 
given the bank sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Having done so, I am satisfied that the £25,000 payment made to the scammer on 
3 October 2017 was unusual and represented the largest occurrence of expenditure on the 
account in recent times. As such, I think it is reasonable to conclude that this ought to have 
triggered TSBs fraud detection system. So, I think TSB ought to have contacted Mrs T and 
asked her to provide further details about the payment in question.
Ive thought carefully about the kind of questions I believe TSB ought to have asked Mrs T 
and if those questions would have made a difference to her going ahead with the payment. 
However, I have also had to bear in mind that the level and depth of questioning has to be 
proportionate to the situation - I have to consider that Mrs T should not have been subjected 
to an interrogation by TSB. 
In my view, it would have been proportionate for TSB to have asked Mrs T to provide details 
such as; to whom the money was being paid to; why; how she had come across the 
investment; her previous investment experience; and what research she had undertaken 
about the investment company.
Its important to note that prior to Mrs T making the payment on 3 October 2017 from her 
TSB account, she had made other payments to the scammer from another account in her 
name (not held with TSB). As such, while there was a new payee set up on this account, 
Mrs T had technically made similar transactions previously. So, I think it is fair to conclude 
that if TSB had questioned Mrs T on who she was paying, and asked if she had made 
payments to this account previously, it is likely Mrs T would have confirmed she had. 
Upon asking Mrs T the reason for the payment, I think it is likely Mrs T would have told TSB 
that she was investing in property. I say this because she did in fact explain this to TSB at a 
later date. If Mrs T had explained this, I think TSB would have gone on to ask Mrs T how she 
was introduced to the investment company, what research she had carried out and if the 
investment company was FCA registered. With that in mind it would have become apparent that Mrs T found the property investment company online and initiated contact with it via 
phone (opposed to the scammer reaching out to Mrs T). As Mrs T has explained to our 
service, she had checked Companies House and the FCA register and was assured the 
property investment company was legitimate. Mrs T may have also explained that she had 
been provided with a brochure detailing the investment portfolio, returns, company headed 
invoices and receipts for investments.
Therefore, while I agree that Mrs Ts payments ought to have triggered TSBs fraud 
detections systems, I am not persuaded that TSBs intervention call would have resulted in 
Mrs T doing anything differently, or answering TSBs questions in a way that would alert TSB 
she was at risk of being a victim of a scam. I say this because Mrs T stated she had ensured 
the business was FCA registered, researched the company on Companies House, made 
other payments to the account in question and was satisfied with the information she had 
been provided - along with her stating she had investment experience. As such, I think this 
would have provided TSB with the reassurances it needed to permit the payments. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably conclude TSB ought to have done more.
Recovery 
I have gone on to consider if TSB took reasonable steps to try and recover the funds for 
Mrs T. As described, she contacted TSB in January 2019 to make it aware she had fallen 
victim to a scam. TSB have said it contacted the receiving bank on the same day, but, 
unfortunately, the money had already been removed from the receiving account. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that TSB employed reasonable endeavours to 
retrieve the funds once it was made aware of the scam. However, as the scam wasnt 
reported until 2019, I am satisfied that TSB could not reasonably have intervened or done 
more to recoup the money from the receiving bank.
Consequently, despite my natural empathy for this cruel scam and the situation Mrs T finds 
herself in having lost a considerable amount of money, Im not persuaded TSB taking 
different actions would have prevented the payments being made, or the consequential loss, 
for the reasons I have explained. It follows that I do not consider it fair or reasonable to 
require TSB to do anything beyond what it has already done for this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman