DRN-1547338
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the maturity value of his mortgage endowment policy he held with 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
What happened
Mr T took out this mortgage endowment policy in September 1994. It had a death benefit 
(and target amount) of £24,225 and was invested 50% in the with-profits fund and 50% in 
the managed fund. It matured in September 2019 for just under £18,400.
Mr T complained to Royal London in June 2019 upon receipt of a letter about the projected 
maturity value of the policy. His complaint fell into two broad categories, he said the policy;
had been mis-sold, and
had under-performed.
Our investigator told Mr T that any complaint about the sale of the policy needed to be made 
to a company Ill call S as it was the selling agent, and he didnt uphold the complaint about 
the performance of the policy. Mr T didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Were an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach the right outcome. 
This policy was sold by S and so the responsibility for the suitability of the advice falls with 
that business, not with Royal London. S would also have been responsible for ensuring Mr T 
understood the nature of the policy and for giving him information about the funds his 
premiums would be invested in. Royal London referred this part of Mr Ts complaint to S in 
June 2019, so Mr T would have needed to pursue any complaint that he may have about the 
sale of the policy with S directly. 
The complaint that was referred to us was about Royal London, as it only included response 
letters from Royal London. If Mr T also wanted us to consider a complaint about S he would 
have needed to send us that complaint as a separate submission with the response hed 
received from S and an explanation of why he didnt agree with it. That would then have 
been set up as a separate complaint against S as we cant consider both together as Royal 
London and S are different businesses. All I can consider here under this complaint are 
things that Royal London was responsible for, and thats just Mr Ts complaint about the 
performance of the policy.
We dont regulate financial firms, so I cant tell Royal London how to run its business; thats a 
matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. I can only uphold this complaint if I think its the 
fair and reasonable to do so, which will usually mean finding that Royal London has done 
something wrong. I dont think it has and Ill explain why.
Mr T and Royal London entered into a contract. Mr T agreed to pay a monthly premium and 
Royal London agreed to provide life cover during the term. It also agreed to provide an 
investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a target amount.
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for growth rates havent been reached - far 
from it - but they were never guaranteed. A shortfall was always possible. Of course, no-one 
thought that would happen at the time but it doesnt change the nature of the contract. To 
answer Mr Ts question about the fees and charges, Royal London had no regulatory 
responsibility to reduce the fees and charges to shoulder some of the burden, so thats not a 
point I need to consider as I cant hold a business liable for not doing something it had no 
responsibility to do.
Mr T was sent regulatory review letters in 2000, 2003 and then every year since 2005; all of 
these showed the rate at which the policy was growing. The 2000 review was amber and 
predicted a potential shortfall at all but the highest potential growth rate. Since 2003 every 
review has been red so predicted a potential shortfall at all three potential growth rates. So 
Im satisfied Royal London has kept him informed over the years, rather than it being a 
surprise when the policy came to mature in 2019 or it just being an issue with the 
performance at the end of the policy as Mr T has said.
With hindsight Royal London might have made different investment decisions. I dont know. 
Its unlikely to have been in the interests of the fund managers to perform badly and Im sure 
Royal London would have wanted the funds to do as well as possible. I cant use hindsight in 
making a decision. The fund performance has been disappointing but thats not unique to 
these funds or this business. Whilst other funds and/or businesses may have performed 
better, that doesnt mean Royal London mismanaged these funds. Investment conditions 
changed and many policies didnt reach their target amounts. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Royal London mismanaged the funds or acted negligently.
The performance was disappointing and I can well understand why Mr T is unhappy about 
that. But Im not persuaded Royal London did anything wrong or that it would otherwise be 
fair and/or reasonable for me to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman