DRN-2208478
The complaint
Mrs A is complaining that she wasnt made aware that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for her 
son with a supplier that I will call E. Shes also unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel it.
What happened
Mrs A says she received a flyer from E advertising an online educational course. She was 
keen to arrange some additional tutoring for her son, so she contacted E to enquire about it. 
In March 2019 one of Es representatives visited Mrs A at her home, following which she 
entered her son onto a course, which cost £2,490. She entered into a four-year finance 
agreement with 3J to pay for it.
Around seven months later, Mrs A tried to cancel the course as she got into financial 
difficulties. But she was told she wasnt able to do so. She says she asked the salesperson 
at the time whether she could cancel the course at any time and she says he confirmed she 
could. Mrs A was also unhappy to learn shed entered into a finance agreement as she says 
she thought she was taking out a monthly subscription. So she complained to E that it had 
mis-sold her the course and finance.
E responded to say Mrs A signed the finance agreement, so it was satisfied she was 
reasonably aware she was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the paperwork she 
signed set out the terms and cancellation rights.
E subsequently went into administration, so Mrs A referred her complaint to 3J as the 
finance provider. 3J says it understands E always aimed to do all it could to make clear what 
was being entered into when a family chooses to purchase a programme from them. It says 
Mrs A signed the agreement which contained a section which set out she had 14 days to 
withdraw from the finance agreement.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Mrs A paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs A entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when she was first approached by E. But essentially, this means 3J 
is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Mrs A. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Mrs A is unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel the course when she got into financial 
difficulties. She says she thought she was paying a monthly subscription towards it and was 
told by the salesman she could cancel at any time. She says she was misled into entering 
into the course and the finance agreement. 
Under the terms of the finance, Mrs A had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mrs A doesnt dispute the contract says this, but 
she says she was told she could cancel it at any time and thought she was taking out a 
monthly subscription. She says she wouldnt have entered into the course had she known 
shed have to continue to pay for it for four years. She also says she didnt know she was 
entering into a finance agreement. So I think the key issues I have to think about is whether 
the course and finance agreement were misrepresented to her.
I note 3J say the primary focus should be on the paperwork Mrs A signed. I agree that we 
must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether theres a 
breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans responsibilities 
to provide clear information to enable Mrs A to make an informed choice before she agreed 
to enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is necessarily always an 
accurate description of the conversations that were had before the contract started. 
In arranging the loan between Mrs A and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But, I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So it is something I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee;
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer: 
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and when 
this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must:
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances; 
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering into 
it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here: 
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mrs A purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Mrs As assumptions about how she was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Mrs A.
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access to Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 
14 days have passed. This seems to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons. So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering 
either face to face or online tuition.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.I think the way Mrs A first became aware of E is also important. Mrs A learnt about E from 
leaflet her son was given by his school from the company to take home. This appears to 
have been a common practice of E so I dont doubt this happened. Schools are trusted 
public institutions, and Mrs As sons school introduced her to E. I think this implicit 
endorsement or recommendation would have made her more likely to trust what she was 
told during the later sales process.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Mrs As testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what shes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product she ultimately bought.
Ive spoken to Mrs A to understand why she enquired about the course in the first place. I 
understand her son had been off school for three months due to an operation and she was 
looking to assist him to catch up with what he missed. Shes told us her partner at the time 
asked if she could cancel the course at any time and she says she was assured by the 
salesman that she could.
Im persuaded that Mrs A was only looking for a short-term arrangement to help her son 
catch up on the work he missed. I think its likely she would have wanted to have the option 
to cancel the contract once she was satisfied her son had caught up with what hed missed. 
So, on balance, I think its most likely she did enquire whether she could cancel the course 
when she did so. And I dont think its likely she would have entered into a four-year contract, 
unless she was told she could cancel it.
Ive considered 3Js comments that Mrs A signed the agreement. But I think the evidence 
here supports Mrs As assertions she was only asked to tick a box on a tablet. I can see 
Mrs A electronically signed both the finance agreement and the enrolment application. But I 
can also see that she signed them both at 17:35. I dont think its likely she could have 
signed them separately at precisely the same time  I think its likely there would have been 
a slight delay if shes been asked to sign them separately. So I think its most likely she 
ticked separate boxes to electronically sign the documents. And Im not persuaded she 
would have been given a copy of the agreement to review before she signed them.
I note 3J has said Mrs A was given an opportunity to review the finance agreement before 
she ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support this. I 
dont disagree with 3J that it was Mrs As responsibility to understand what she was entering 
into. But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty to 
ensure she had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and 
about the finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before she agreed to 
enter into the course and finance agreement. 
Its also worth noting that the FCA has this year written to credit brokers outlining some key 
risks it believes they should consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms 
brokering credit agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, 
leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or 
other poor consumer outcomes. In particular it referenced brokers which sell products in the 
home as potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially if sales took place 
without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis.
While no specific firms were mentioned in the FCAs letter, Im mindful of the fact that in 
Mrs As case E was brokering a credit agreement with a third-party finance provider in order 
to sell her a product, in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially 
presenting a higher risk of consumer harm including mis-selling.Mrs A has said throughout she thought she was taking out a monthly subscription to a 
tutoring service. Given what I know about what Mrs A wanted to use the training for, Im not 
persuaded she would have entered into the course and agreement if shed know it was a 
four-year commitment. I think Mrs A has been consistent in what shes told us about what 
happened. And, Ive ultimately found her testimony to be plausible and persuasive.
Ive seen some of the training material provided by E to its salespeople, which I understand 
was current at the point Mrs A entered into the finance agreement. When covering how to 
explain the financial aspects of the sale, E doesnt refer to the word loan anywhere in these 
training materials. Instead, I think the focus seems to have been on setting an affordable 
monthly payment and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid 
making the arrangement sound like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mrs A as clearly as he should have done. And I think Mrs A has lost out as a result of whats 
happened.
That said, Mrs A has had a benefit from the course because her son did use it for around 
seven months and had completed a reasonable proportion of it. So I think its fair she pays 
for some of the amount payable. I understand Mrs A stopped paying the finance around 
October 2019  around seven months into the agreement.
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 3J 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. And it can retain the payments 
Mrs A has made to reflect the usage her son has had from the course. As I dont think Mrs A 
would have entered into this finance agreement had she been given sufficient information at 
the outset, I dont think its fair that it continues to appear on her credit file. So I think 3J 
should remove any record of the agreement from Mrs As credit file.
Mrs A responded to accept my provisional decision apart from she said she didnt stop 
making payments. Following this, I wrote to 3J to say I was minded to say it should refund 
any payments Mrs A made towards the finance agreement since October 2019.
3J didnt agree with my provisional decision and asked that I review the matter again. It said 
it had provided evidence to show that Mrs A acknowledged and signed the contractual 
documentation which it said showed what she had bought and under what terms. It said 
Mrs A confirmed she electronically sign these forms and it didnt think it was fair to rely on 
one persons testimony.  
3J acknowledged Mrs A signed the electronic documents within one minute of each other. 
But it said, it used an electronic document system which it thought was common in many 
such situations these days and was a well-established approach. It said this meant that 
documents are indeed all signed at the same time using an electronic device, which is why 
all the documents are recorded with the same time of signature. But it said all these 
documents were automatically emailed to Mrs A one minute after she signed them, so it 
maintained Mrs A was given full access to everything she signed.
3J also set out that 22 minutes passed between the documents first being opened and her 
signing them. So it maintained shed been given sufficient time to read and consider the 
documents before signing them.
It also set out that Mrs A was as to provide various personal information  including her job 
title, employers details, how long shed worked there for that employer and her income 
details. So it thought this should have at least alerted Mrs A to question if it was for more 
than a simple direct debit instruction.  Finally, 3J said its provided the Finance Compliance Confirmation signed by the course 
advisor at the start. And it says this form shows the course advisor orally covered matters 
required by reference to adequate explanations in accordance with CONC 4.2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points both Mrs A and 3J have provided but Ive come to the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. 3J maintains it thinks its unfair to rely 
on verbal testimony and it thinks the greatest weight should be placed on the documentation 
generated and signed at the time. But I set out in my provisional decision why Ive found 
Mrs As testimony plausible and persuasive in this case and why I think its fair to rely on 
this. I dont think 3 J has provided anything new in this respect. So I dont see any reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in this respect. 
3J has set out that Mrs A should have been aware she was entering into more than a direct 
debit mandate due to the personal questions she was being asked. But I dont think this is 
enough to discharge its burden under CONC. My provisional decision sets out why I dont 
think 3J did enough to make it sufficiently clear to Mrs A she was entering into a long-term 
financial commitment as opposed to a monthly subscription. 3J hasnt given me anything 
further to what it provided before to suggest it did sufficiently explain Mrs A was entering into 
a finance agreement. And Im satisfied Mrs A wasnt aware she had entered into a finance 
agreement. 
Finally Ive thought about 3Js comment that the salesperson signed the finance compliance 
confirmation form which it says showed he had fulfilled its requirements to give an adequate 
explanation. But Im conscious Mrs A hasnt signed this. As I said in my provisional decision, 
weve seen 3Js training material that it gives its sales people. And my provisional decision 
explains why I think the primary focus was on setting an affordable monthly payment and 
seemed to be fashioned so as to avoid making the arrangement sound like a loan.
Ultimately, I dont think 3J has given me anything to persuade me to come to a different 
conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this complaint for the 
same reasons.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think Mrs A did receive a benefit from the contract so I 
think its fair that she pays something to it. When I issued my provisional decision. I 
understood Mrs A stopped paying the finance around October 2019  around seven months 
into the agreement. But Mrs A has said she continued to make the monthly payments. I 
remain of the belief that the monthly payments made up to October 2019 is a fair charge for 
the usage Mrs A had for the contract. So I think 3J should refund any payment Mrs A has 
made towards the finance since then. It should also pay 8% simple interest on these 
payments too from the date she paid them until the date she gets them back.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require 3J Finance Limited to do the following:
1. Waive the outstanding balance still remaining on the finance agreement;
2. Refund any payment Mrs A has made towards the finance since October 2019. It should 
also pay 8% simple interest on these payments too from the date she paid them until the date she gets them back. If 3J thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax if appropriate;
3. Arrange to collect any equipment provided to Mrs A as part of the agreement at no cost 
to Mrs A; and
4. Remove any record of the finance agreement from Mrs As credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman