DRN-3480290
The complaint
Mr B complains that Accelerant Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
farm insurance policy.
Reference to Accelerant includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B holds a farm insurance policy with Accelerant. He made a claim after euthanising a 
horse he said he owned.
Accelerant declined his claim. It said Mr B hadnt shown that he owned the euthanised 
horse. It said the evidence it was provided with showed the horse was dark bay in colour, but 
the information Mr B had provided only showed he owned a grey/dun horse.
Mr B complained about Accelerants decision, but it didnt chance its stance. So he brought 
his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. 
They thought Accelerant was acting reasonably by not paying the claim.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know Mr B wont be happy with this 
decision. Ill explain my reasoning.
Key to any insurance claim is the claimant being able to evidence theyve suffered a loss, 
covered by the policy. So, key here is for Mr B to be able to show he owned the horse that 
was euthanised.
On the one hand Mr B said he was called by a neighbour who found the injured dark bay 
horse and that neighbour referred to the horse as Mr Bs horse. And Ive also seen a 
statement from the trainer who describes training a dark bay horse for Mr B.
On the other hand, Mr B hasnt been able to provide any pictures of the dark bay horse, and 
the purchase receipt notes the horse as being grey/dun. The only pictures provided were of 
a grey/dun horse, but Mr Bs representative has since said this isnt the horse in question 
and they were sent in error. The euthanised horse didnt have a passport and the vet didnt 
scan the horses microchip to be able to identify it either. Theres a note from the vets office 
too which says the attending vet may have got the colour of the horse wrong in error. Which 
just adds further to the confusion.
Mr B has said horses can change colour, which they can to some degree. But that possibility 
alone doesnt evidence that Mr Bs horse changed colour. Im satisfied Assurant are acting 
fairly when they say Mr B hasnt done enough to show he owned the dark bay horse that 
was euthanised. And so, Im satisfied its acting fairly by not paying Mr Bs claim on his policy 
based on the evidence its been presented. Its said if Mr B can provide further evidence to 
support him owning the euthanised horse, itll take this into consideration. Which Im satisfied 
is reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman