DRN-3578374
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) will not allow him to take 
just tax-free cash from his Section 32 (s32) pension plan in line with the pension freedom 
legislation without him first taking financial advice and transferring his plan to another 
arrangement. He does not want to incur the cost of advice and says Scottish Widows should 
allow him to take the tax-free cash sum. 
What happened
Mr H has a s32 plan with Scottish Widows, a type of plan used to receive a transfer from an 
occupational pension scheme. His plan has a protected tax-free cash sum (PTFC) which is 
more than the now typical maximum 25% of the fund value limit allowed by HMRC. Mr H 
contacted Scottish Widows in July 2021 and said he wanted to take only the PRCT sum and 
leave the balance of the plan invested.  
Scottish Widows said this wasnt available through his existing plan. But said it may be 
possible if Mr H took independent financial advice and transferred to a flexible drawdown 
plan. Mr H queried why he couldnt take benefits as he wanted and contacted Scottish 
Widows again in January 2022 
Scottish Widows said it couldnt do what Mr H wanted unless he took financial advice. But if 
he didnt want to take advice it could arrange the transfer of the plan to a new policy, but the 
PRTC would be lost and tax-free cash of only 25% of the fund value would be payable. 
Mr H said that it wasnt a regulatory requirement that he take financial advice, so, this was 
an unnecessary cost. And in view of the pension freedom legislation introduced in 2015 he 
said Scottish Widows ought to pay the PRCT as hed asked, so he raised a complaint.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint. It apologised for not providing full explanations 
of what could be done in both July 2021 and on 11 January 2022 and offered to pay Mr H 
£40 in compensation for the inconvenience this had caused. But it said it wasnt able to do 
what Mr H wanted on a non-advised basis and he needed to consult a financial adviser and 
transfer the plan if he wanted to preserve the PRCT without taking all benefits at the same 
time. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service saying the value of his fund had fallen materially 
since he first contacted Scottish Widows asking to take his tax-free cash sum in July 2021.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Scottish Widows had made any error. She said the 
Pensions Scheme Act of 2015 allowed more flexibility on how benefits could be taken. But 
she said as this legislation was enabling rather than compulsory, it was up to Scottish 
Widows whether it offered additional flexibility on pre-existing plans or chose to offer this 
through new products as it had here. She said the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the s32 
plan didnt allow Mr H to take the benefits in the way he wanted.
Our investigator said whilst there wasnt a regulatory requirement that Mr H take 
independent financial advice, Scottish Widows was free to decide what type of business it 
was prepared to accept and on what basis. She said it had told Mr H that other pension 
providers might accept the transfer without requiring him to take financial advice. 
She said whilst the value of the tax-free cash had fallen since Mr H had first requested it this 
was the nature of investments as markets can fluctuate. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said:
Scottish Widows had said that transfer to another provider would not be possible 
without him taking advice, and therefore he couldnt do anything without appointing 
an adviser. 
He disagreed that the T&Cs of his plan didnt allow him to take only tax-free cash. 
He said that the only protected part of the s32 was the tax-free cash sum, which is all 
he wished to access and that if Scottish widows would only allow this if he took 
financial advice, this was detrimental to his interests as the costs were likely to 
outweigh the benefits.   
As Mr H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand Mr Hs frustration and hope he has been able to make the arrangements he 
wanted. However, in considering his complaint I have to be fair to both parties. 
The pensions freedom legislation is enabling rather than compulsory and that does mean 
pension providers do not have to provide the additional options that became available in 
2015 on existing contracts if they dont want to. Other providers have taken the same 
approach with older plans like Mr Hs and have chosen not to offer the new options on them, 
often because of the expense and complexity of updating legacy administration systems that 
would be needed to achieve this. 
Scottish Widows hasnt updated the T&Cs of Mr Hs plan and it doesnt have to. 
Strictly, this means that the flexibility available in taking benefits is limited to that set out in 
the T&Cs of the plan. These, unsurprisingly, provide only for the options available under the 
relevant tax legislation at the time the plan was taken out and s32 plans were often subject 
to quite strict requirements. 
In terms of retirement benefits the T&Cs of Mr Hs plan say the fund value can be used to 
either transfer to another pension plan or to purchase an annuity to provide a pension, with 
or without a tax-free lump sum. Mr H has queried this, but this is clearly set out in section 7.3 
of the T&Cs which is headed Types of retirement benefit:
we will apply the value in such proportions as you specify to secure retirement 
benefits of one or more of the following types:
(a)a pension for you.
(b)one or more dependants pensions payable after your death while on a pension, 
and(c)a lump sum.
It continues:
You can use part of the value of your policy to provide a cash sum with the rest 
being used to buy a pension.
So, the option to just take the tax-free lump sum (whether protected or not) isnt provided for 
by the plan as some form of annuity must be taken at the same time to provide the pension 
element. And as Scottish Widows is, as Id expect it to, making the options set out in the 
T&Cs available, it isnt treating Mr H unfairly.
Like any business Scottish Widows is entitled to set out the basis on which it will do 
business. So, I dont think it is unreasonable that is has chosen to set conditions for the type 
of business it is willing to accept. It also isnt unusual for pension providers to stipulate that 
they wont accept more complex business (which I think is the case here if the PTFC is not 
to be lost) without a financial adviser giving advice. Even if there isnt (as here) a specific 
legal requirement for the customer to take advice as is required for some types of pension 
transfer.
And I dont think Scottish Widows did tell Mr H that he had to take financial advice in all 
circumstances. Rather only if he wished to remain with it. Mr H has quoted the following from 
its letter of 14 January 2022:
If you wished to move into a flexible drawdown arrangement without the loss of the 
PTFC this is unfortunately not available on a non-advised basis.
However, this is in a section of the letter specifically referring to arrangements offered by 
Scottish Widows itself. Before this sentence it summarised the position and explains that 
within the products offered by it, Mr H could arrange a transfer himself and then just take tax-
free cash but would lose the protected amount. Or that he could take advice on a transfer 
that may preserve the PTFC. It goes on to say that:
The product that you transfer into to release the tax free lump sum does not need to 
be with Scottish Widows, and we do recommend you shop around to see if other 
providers have options that may better fit your needs.
It may be that other providers would not have required Mr H to take financial advice. 
But in any case, this doesnt change the position that Scottish Widows wasnt prepared or 
indeed, obliged, to facilitate what Mr H wanted unless he did take advice about the matter. 
That isnt unreasonable, so I dont think it has delayed Mr H in taking his benefits if he 
wanted to as it told him it couldnt do this when he first requested it. 
Scottish Widows isnt required to offer the pension freedoms changes on older plans like Mr 
Hs. And it is facilitating the options which are set out in the T&Cs including the right to 
transfer to another pension plan which might provide what he wants. So, I dont think it has 
treated him unfairly or unreasonably and it neednt do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman