DRN-4096496
The complaint
Miss B complains that the car she financed through a hire purchase agreement with FCE 
Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit wasnt of satisfactory quality as the engine failed after only 
36,000 miles. She also complained that she hadnt been provided with the service she 
should have been while dealing with this issue. 
What happened
Miss B entered into a credit agreement with Ford Credit in June 2019 to acquire a new car. 
When this agreement ended, she entered a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit for 
the same car. At that time (September 2022) the car had been driven just over 32,170 miles. 
The engine failed in December 2022 when the car had been driven less than 36,000 miles. 
Miss B says that when she reported this to the dealer, she was told she would need to pay 
£180 for a diagnostics test which she did. She was then told the cost was £180 per hour. 
Miss B says she had to wait for weeks for the diagnostics report. 
Ford Credit issued a final decision dated 13 February 2023. It said its Service Team said the 
car hadnt been serviced noting that a service should have happened at 18,000 miles. It said 
the fault appeared after Miss B had had the car for over 42 months and it didnt believe it 
likely the fault causing the engine failure was present at supply and so didnt uphold this 
complaint. 
Miss B said that the car had been serviced at 25,000 miles and then failed at 36,000 miles 
with no warning. She said that this was a known issue with the model of car she has, and the 
car has been unusable since December 2022. She referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on 19 March 2023 and it was then agreed that the engine would be 
stripped in an attempt to diagnose the cause of the engine failure. Following this Miss B 
received an email from the manufacturer saying that based on information from an engineer 
and technical experts it found the failure could have been prevented if Miss Bs vehicle had 
been serviced in line with the manufacturers schedule. Given this it didnt offer to pay 
towards the cost of repair. Miss B didnt accept these comments and said this ignored the 
report she had received from the dealer.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said she was unable to conclude that the 
cause of the engine failure was due to a fault present at supply. She noted the first service 
took place almost 8,000 miles after it should have which she thought could have caused 
problems. Considering this and that there was no evidence to show a manufacturing fault 
she didnt conclude that the car wasnt reasonably durable or not of satisfactory quality at 
supply.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said the car was a write off as the 
engine had failed and it wasnt fair she needed to continue to pay for it for the remaining two 
years of the finance agreement. She said the issue with her car wasnt an isolated event with 
other cars of the same model experiencing engine failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B acquired a new car through a credit agreement in 2019. When the agreement came 
to an end she entered a new hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit (September 2022). 
At this time, the car had been driven around 32,170 miles. 
In December 2022, the car broke down. I can understand how distressing this must have 
been for Miss B, especially as her child was in the car with her and I note her comments 
about how, had this happened on a motorway, the breakdown could have caused a fatality.  
This complaint is against Ford Credit, as the finance provider. Under the regulations, the 
finance provider can be held liable if the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. The car was supplied new and was subject to an initial finance agreement 
with Ford Credit followed by a second credit agreement entered into with Ford Credit in 
September 2022. When considering satisfactory quality, factors such as the cars age and 
mileage are taken into account. In this case while the current hire purchase agreement 
wasnt entered into until September 2022, the car was supplied to Miss B new in 2019. 
Therefore, I have considered whether the issue with the engine was due to a manufacturing 
fault, or more likely wear and tear. Also, noting the age and mileage of the car when the 
engine failed, I have considered other factors in regard to satisfactory quality, specifically 
whether the car was sufficiently durable.
Following the engine being removed and partially stripped the dealer said the cause for the 
failure was a cracked crankshaft. It said this had caused the main bearings to spin and seize 
on the engine block. The dealer then said that it wasnt able to qualify why the crankshaft 
had cracked. It noted the car was serviced late but said there was no evidence of blockage 
to the oil filter pick up,  damage to the wet timing belt and no other debris possibly causing 
oil pressure issues to the engine. It said that the manufacturer would have to decide whether 
the late service could have caused this crankshaft failure.
The manufacturer said it wouldnt contribute to the cost of repairs saying Based on the 
information of both the engineer and our technical specialists. we find that the issue likely 
could have been prevented, if the vehicle had been serviced in line with the maintenance 
schedule, using [manufacturer] approved parts and oil grade.
I have considered all of the information provided. Where the evidence is inconclusive, 
incomplete or contradictory, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities  
that is what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence and wider 
circumstances of the complaint. I understand how upsetting this issue has been for Miss B 
and I note that she has said she no longer has the car. But based on the information 
provided I do not find I can say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply. I say this 
because Miss B was able to drive the car for around 42 months and over 35,000 miles 
before the issue arose and so it is reasonable that evidence would be required to identify 
whether the fault that caused the engine failure was present or developing at the point of 
supply. Diagnostics were undertaken and while I appreciate Miss Bs comment about the 
cost of these, given when the engine failure occurred it was her responsibility to provide the 
evidence.
The comments made by the dealer after the engine was stripped werent conclusive and 
deferred to the manufacturer in regard to whether the late service caused the crankshaft 
failure. The manufacturer then said that the failure could have been prevented had the car 
been serviced in line with the manufacturers schedule. Miss B did have a service carried out at around 25,000 miles, but this was over 7,000 miles after the service was due. While the 
dealer didnt find any signs of issues from the late service, the late service could have 
caused premature wear to the bearings which then, after further travel, caused the engine to 
fail. Had the services been undertaken in line with the manufacturers schedule then it could 
have been considered that the car wasnt sufficiently durable but in this case, with the 
uncertainty arising from the late service, and as there isnt evidence that there was a 
manufacturing fault present or developing at the point of supply that caused the engine to 
fail, I do not find that I have enough to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Overall, while I am sorry to hear of Miss Bs experience I do not find that I have the evidence 
to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman