DRN-3629086
The complaint
Mr B1 complains about the settlement esure Insurance Limited offered him for the loss of his 
car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants this increased. Mr B1 is 
represented in this matter by his father, Mr B2, a named driver on the policy. 
What happened
Mr B1s car was damaged whilst parked and esure declared it to be a total loss. esure 
offered Mr B1 £3,000 in settlement of his claim, after making deductions for pre-existing 
damage. But Mr B2 thought esure should have offered them £3,900. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
had valued Mr B1s car correctly in keeping with our approach. And she thought its 
deduction for pre-existing damage was fair and reasonable. So she didnt think esure 
needed to increase its offer. 
Mr B2 replied that it would cost about £3,900 to replace the car with one similar. He said it 
had low mileage and superficial damage. He thought they were being punished for the other 
drivers actions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B1 and Mr B2 feel frustrated by esures valuation of the car. It was 
hit by another driver whilst parked and unattended. But that doesnt mean that esure can 
increase the valuation it places on the car. esure has a duty to minimise claim costs and to 
justify the amount it pays in settlement. 
I can see that Mr B1s policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
including: Glass's, Parkers and GAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought esures offer of £3,000 in settlement of the claim was fair and 
reasonable. So Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked 
the trade guides for valuations of cars the same as Mr B1s. She took into account the cars 
make, model, age, mileage and condition at the date of its loss. 
The Investigator found that the valuations ranged between £3,200 and £3,975. esure said 
that the average of the valuations it found was £3,552. As this was within the range the 
Investigator found, I think that was fair and reasonable. 
esure said the repairs for the pre-accident damage would cost £1,600. And it deducted £552 
for these. We think its fair for an insurer to make a deduction for pre-existing damage that 
would affect the retail value of a car. This takes into account fair wear and tear and the age 
of the car. Mr B2 said the dents and scrape at the rear of the car didnt affect its 
performance. But, looking at the photos, I think it was reasonable for esure to decide they 
were more than just wear and tear. And so I think its fair for esure to consider them. 
Our general approach when considering the cost of repairing the pre-incident damage is to 
divide estimated repair cost by two and then to deduct that figure from the settlement. As a 
guide, we consider this "broad brush" approach to be a simple, fair way of assessing a fair 
reduction when handling this type of complaint. As esure deducted less than half the 
estimated repair cost, then I think this was fair and reasonable. 
So Im satisfied that esures settlement offer of £3,000 was made correctly according to our 
approach. And I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman