DRN-2556020
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money he lost to a scam.
  
My findigns
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding it in part. The details of this case are well-known to both 
parties and so Ill not set them out in full here. The following summarises the key facts of the 
case and the reasoning behind my findings.
1. It is common ground that Mr S authorised scam payments totalling £318,040. He was 
duped by the scammers into sending money which he believed was for investment in the 
mining and trading of cryptocurrency. He was given access to what appeared to be a 
trading platform which would show how his investments were performing over time.
2. Mr S started investing in December 2017 and made a total of twelve payments, mostly 
for £25,000 each. But payment number six, made in branch on 18 January 2018, was for 
£100,000. 
3. Mr S didnt realise something was wrong until August 2019 when he could no longer 
access the trading platform. 
4. Its worth noting at this stage that this particular scam was very sophisticated and had 
global reach. The details of it are quite widely reported online and many customers like 
Mr S fell victim to it, which speaks to its level of sophistication and persuasiveness.
  
5. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr S was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payments. So, 
although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
6. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like the one for £100,000, those steps may include following 
the Banking Protocol where appropriate.
7. Its been accepted by both Mr S and the bank that the first five payments made did not 
represent unusual activity on Mr S account. He also had no direct interaction with bank 
staff as all payments were made using his online banking. And so its accepted that the 
bank neednt have stepped in to question what the payments were for up to that point.
8. The bank has suggested that the £100,000 payment was also not unusual for Mr S as 
hed made similar transactions on his account before. But I dont agree thats the case. 
The only comparable transactions appear to be internal transfers between Mr S own 
accounts, rather than to third parties. Its also the case that the banks own records, in 
the form of a high value checklist completed at the time, do recognise that the payment 
was unusual. And so regardless of what the bank thinks now, its member of staff 
thought the transaction unusual at the time.  In any case, a transaction of £100,000 is of 
such a high value that I think it ought to have prompted questioning by the bank. Such 
questioning was lacking when Mr S made the payment.
9. Mr S was asked the purpose of the payment and he said it was for the sponsoring of an 
event. But theres little evidence to suggest anything else was asked of him. Id expect 
the bank to have probed further in order to make sure Mr S wasnt at risk of financial 
harm and also to ensure it was meeting its other obligations that Ive already referred to. 
 
10. The evidence before us indicates that the staff did not ask Mr S any appropriate follow-
up or probing questions when he said the payment was for the sponsorship of an event, 
which the scammers had told Mr S to say. According to Bank of Scotlands records, they 
merely asked him where the money was going and then gave a general statement about 
unrelated scams involving the impersonation of police and bank staff. In my judgment, 
they could and should have done more.
 
11. I dont believe Mr S would have been able to keep up a convincing cover story relating to 
the sponsorship of an event. He wasnt provided with any details that he might have 
been able to use to convince the bank of the purpose. And so Im persuaded he would 
have revealed the true intention behind the payment. This ought to have had two effects:
a. a warning from the bank that cryptocurrency is unregulated and so inherently 
risky and, more importantly, that scams involving cryptocurrency are 
commonplace; and
b. prompted significant concern from the bank that Mr S had been told to hide the 
true purpose of the payment, a feature thats a hallmark of many scams.
12. What might have happened next is difficult to predict and the case is finely balanced as a 
result. On one hand the bank ought to have given Mr S strong warnings about 
proceeding, which might well have led to him stopping what he was doing at that point. 
The scam might well have been revealed when he tried to withdraw funds from the 
online platform and would  more likely than not  have been unable to do so. Its also 
the case that by this stage, and contrary to the earlier payments that neednt have been questioned by the bank, warnings about the company Mr S was investing with had 
started to appear online. That was in the form of warnings from different government 
bodies around the world as well as consumer reviews on trusted websites. So there were 
other warning signs that had come to the fore by the time the bank ought to have been 
warning Mr S about his actions. It seems reasonable to conclude Mr S would have found 
these warnings had he been prompted to look for information about the company again.
13. I do also have in mind though that Mr S was well-convinced of the scam by this point and 
that it appears to have been a particularly sophisticated deception. Mr S had already 
invested £85,000 and so was very much committed to what he was doing. He was 
seeing what appeared to be returns on his money and was able to contact his broker 
whenever he needed to. Hes also said that he did carry out a lot of research before 
going ahead with the investment. And so its far from certain he would have acted 
differently even in the face of warnings from the bank. Its possible he may have even 
gone back to the broker to raise questions and then have been given satisfactory 
responses. Theres really no way of knowing.
14. Im also mindful that Mr S was willing to hide the true purpose of the payments he was 
making from the bank. I find this must be taken into account in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
15. With all of this in mind, having identified the bank was at fault but with Mr S likely 
subsequent actions being finely balanced, I believe the fair and reasonable outcome is 
for liability to be shared from the point the £100,000 payment was made in branch. That 
equates to a refund from the bank of £115,012.50. Interest should be paid on that 
amount at the rate applicable to the account the funds were sourced from, from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement.
16. When our investigator looked at this case, he recommended a payment of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. The banks objections to the outcome to 
date have been around whether the payment ought to have prompted questions and 
whether they would have made a difference. Those issues were addressed in our 
investigators findings and remain unchanged in my final decision. And so, as theres 
been no objection to the compensation awarded by the investigator, I see no reason to 
deviate from it. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that his loss was ultimately 
caused by the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised transaction, but Bank of 
Scotland ought to have done more at the time the payment was made and once the 
scam had been reported.
17. When a claim like this is raised by a customer the bank ought to contact the beneficiary 
bank(s) involved quickly to see if funds could be recovered. It appears Bank of Scotland 
did that but, unfortunately, no funds remained in the recipient accounts. Thats not 
unsurprising given the time that had passed between Mr S sending the money and the 
scam being reported to the bank. Typically, funds will move out of the recipient accounts 
very quickly.
18. I have also considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the payment, he simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. He genuinely believed he was engaged in legitimate 
investments. And whilst he may have hidden the true purpose of the payments I believe 
the shared liability Ive already described takes that into account when all of the 
circumstances of the case are considered as a whole, on a fair and reasonable basis.  
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should:
refund Mr S £115,012.50 lost to the scam;
pay interest on that amount at the rate applicable to the account from which the funds 
originated.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman