DRN-3515603
The complaint
Mr P complains about the level of service provided by Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
when he renewed his motor insurance policy. He wants further compensation for his trouble 
and upset.
 
What happened
Mr P renewed his policy with Hastings and changed his occupation on the policy. He 
contacted Hastings through webchat as he couldnt access his services online. The agent 
updated his email address and noticed that Mr P hadnt updated his occupation on his old 
policy which still had a month to run. The agent wanted to charge Mr P for this, or his policy 
would cancel with seven days notice. 
Mr P disagreed and the agent eventually made the change and waived the charge. Mr P 
then called Hastings but was kept on hold for long periods. Hastings agreed that its service 
could have been better, and it offered Mr P £50 compensation. But Mr P was unhappy with 
this. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Hastings was correct to want to update Mr Ps occupation on the old policy. And she thought 
it was fair and reasonable for it to waive the charge for this. She agreed that Mr P had been 
kept on hold for long periods. But she thought Hastings offer of compensation was sufficient 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P replied that he thought the compensation wasnt enough for his wasted time and the 
service hed received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P felt frustrated that he was kept on hold for long periods. I was 
sorry to hear that this and the associated stress has affected his mental health.  
Mr P thought Hastings was trying to take money from him for no reason. But, as the 
Investigator explained, his occupation hadnt been updated on his old policy. And when this 
change was made, a small additional premium was required. The webchat agent explained 
this to Mr P at the time. Mr P didnt later recall this. But the Investigator has since provided 
him with a copy of the webchat where Im satisfied this was evident. I can also see that no 
charge was made for the change in email address, in keeping with Hastings terms of 
business. 
Mr P was also unhappy that he was kept on hold for long periods when he enquired about 
his complaint. Hastings agreed that he had been kept waiting, but its agent did explain that 
the manager Mr P wanted to speak to wouldnt be immediately available. 
However, when a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we 
expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider 
the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I cant see that Hastings caused Mr P any losses that it needs to recompense except for his 
phone charges. But I think it reasonably waived the additional premium for the change of 
occupation to resolve Mr Ps concern. And I think Hastings offer of £50 compensation for the 
long wait on hold was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This is because its in 
keeping with our published guidance for the level of inconvenience caused to Mr P. I dont 
require Hastings to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman