DRN-3315520
The complaint
Mr R complains because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a claim for cutting short a 
holiday under his travel insurance policy.
Mr R is also unhappy with the lack of assistance provided to him by AXA, and because AXA 
didnt tell him whether it could communicate with him in British Sign Language (BSL). 
What happened
Mr R held a silver annual travel insurance policy, provided by AXA.
While Mr R was abroad, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel
to the country he was in due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. The FCDO
subsequently advised all British tourists abroad to return to the UK.
Mr R arranged and paid for a repatriation flight to the UK. Mr R made a claim with AXA for
the cost of that flight, as well as other additional expenses. Mr R also claimed for an unused
internal flight abroad.
Mr R subsequently complained to AXA about its delays in dealing with his claim and said it
had failed to provide him with any support. Mr R also said that he couldnt use the telephone
so, by failing to keep in touch with him via email, AXA hadnt taken his disability into account
when communicating with him.
AXA sent Mr R two final response letters about his complaint. The first said that his claim for
the repatriation flight and his other additional expenses werent covered under his policy,
because his policy only covers unused costs. AXA also outlined some of the email
correspondence it had received from and sent to Mr R, and apologised for any
miscommunications. It said, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, its response times were longer
than usual.
AXAs second final response letter to Mr R addressed his claim for his unused internal flight.
AXA said Mr Rs policy only covered irrecoverable costs and, because hed received a
voucher from the airline with the option to rebook, the costs he was claiming for werent
irrecoverable.
As Mr R remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. One of
our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think AXA had acted
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances  either by declining Mr Rs claim or in its
communications with him.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I made 
my provisional decision about Mr Rs complaint in January 2022. In summary, I said:
Mr Rs claim for his additional costs werent covered, because Section 1 of his policy 
only covered unused costs;
Mr Rs share of the unused internal flight was less than his policy excess;
I didnt think AXA should have provided any further assistance or support to Mr R;
AXA corresponded with Mr R in the way hed asked it to (by email);
There was no excessive or unreasonable delay by AXA in replying to Mr R. 
AXA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr R 
initially said he disagreed with my provisional findings. Mr R subsequently said he wanted to 
close this complaint and queried how he could extend a voucher with a particular airline, and 
also said he hadnt received refunds from two other airlines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has already explained, AXA isnt responsible for issuing any voucher to 
Mr R. This is the responsibility of the airline in question and if Mr R is having difficulties with 
having the voucher extended, hed need to complain to the airline directly. This isnt 
something which our service has the power to get involved in. 
Im aware that Mr R had flights with three different airlines, and my provisional decision 
referred to all three  the additional repatriation flight (which isnt covered under Mr Rs 
insurance policy), the unused internal flight (Mr Rs share of this is less than his policy 
excess) and Mr Rs original unused return flight to the UK (which Mr R previously told us he 
received a cash refund for from the airline). 
Mr R hasnt provided any new information or additional submissions about his complaint 
against AXA, so I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman