DRN-3034494
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) will not allow him to cash-in his annuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained legislation does permit annuities worth under £10,000 to 
potentially be cashed-in. But this is at the providers discretion. ReAssure has explained why 
it has chosen to no longer use this discretion.
The investigator considered Mr Ws circumstances and the circumstances of this case as to 
whether this was unfair or unreasonable. But she explained that having done so, she didnt 
think ReAssure had done anything wrong. And I agree.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration and why he thinks it would be fair to allow him to cash-in 
his annuity. I can also appreciate the reasoning ReAssure gave, that it was concerned this 
option wouldnt be in customers best interests, would be doubly frustrating for Mr W as he 
feels he is best placed to decide what is in his best interests. But the legislation allows 
ReAssure to apply its discretion. And its explanation was based on a business wide decision 
and not specific to Mr W.
Whilst I can understand that Mr W feels he would be much better off with the cash lump sum 
than the annuity. And he therefore thinks the fair decision is to allow him to cash-in the 
annuity, we are an impartial service and we have to take into account the relevant legislation 
and the fairness of our decisions on both sides.
ReAssure agreed a contract to pay Mr W an annuity of £341.54 per year (paid monthly) for 
the rest of his life in 2001. In essence Mr W bought this contract with the £5,618.43 that he 
had saved in his pension (this figure is the figure left after deduction of the 25% tax free cash 
Mr W took at the time). To date Mr W has already received well in excess of the figure used 
to purchase his pension  as it has been payable now for some 20 years. 
If ReAssure were to agree to pay Mr W a cash-lump sum now in place of the annuity, Mr W 
will have had the benefit of that annuity for 20 years (earning more than the pot he saved to 
buy that annuity) and then an additional lump sum. So in not doing so, I dont think ReAssure 
is being unreasonable in the circumstances.
Furthermore, I dont think the sums involved are so small that they wont provide Mr W some 
benefit. But I do appreciate why Mr W would rather have a lump sum but as Ive said I have 
to be fair to both parties in my decision making.
When the contract was drawn up, this was never envisaged as the legislation did not allow 
for this scenario. And annuities werent designed to be cashed in or have a cash value. 
Whilst I can understand why cashing-in the annuity would be beneficial for Mr W, 
considering the legislation allows providers to use their discretion and the circumstances 
here, I cant say here that ReAssure are being unfair or unreasonable to Mr W.
There are some other providers that are allowing annuities to be cashed in. But in our 
experience the majority of cases cashed in have generally been on annuities worth less in 
value than Mr Ws would cost to provide now and where they dont provide a material level of 
income. Or the decision has been made for commercial reasons. I know that it may seem 
unfair that depending on who a customer has their annuity with, their access to this option 
differs. But Im afraid this is a product of the legislation, it allows the providers to make a 
choice.
We have seen some businesses changing their stance on cashing-in annuities. And if in the 
future ReAssure changes its position on cashing-in annuities or legislation changes, I would 
expect ReAssure to look into this again afresh for Mr W.
Im sorry to hear that Mr W is struggling financially and I know my decision will be 
disappointing for him. But to uphold a complaint I need to be able to justify that a business 
has done something wrong or needs to do more. And I dont think ReAssure has done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman