DRN-3203433
Summary and background to the complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as M, complains Markel International Insurance 
Company Limited made an error when renewing its Directors and Officers insurance policy.
Markel offered renewal terms to M for the policy, which were agreed. However, a policy was 
put into place based on an incorrect, higher, premium amount. This led to several payments 
being debited from Ms account before the matter was rectified. 
Markel accepted it had made an error which had taken some time to put right. It offered M 
£100 compensation to reflect the inconvenience it had been put to in trying to sort things out. 
Our investigator explained that she thought the compensation offered was fair in the 
circumstances, but M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The role of this service isnt to punish or fine a business for making an error. 
Mistakes do happen on occasion. 
M is business, a legal entity in itself and not a natural person. It therefore it cant 
suffer from impact to feelings. So, in this case, while I understand it would have been 
frustrating for the employees of M trying to sort the matter out, I can only consider the 
inconvenience caused to M. 
There will always be some level inconvenience when something goes wrong, 
however it is clear here that it took some time for the matter to be rectified. So I do 
agree that some compensation is due here. 
Im mindful that when considering the complaint Markel admitted it made an error, 
apologised and said that it would provide feedback to the appropriate department. It 
then, when asked to reconsider, offered £100 compensation. 
Having considered everything, I think this amount this is fair and reasonable and 
reflects the inconvenience that was caused to M. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Ms complaint against Markel International Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman