DRN-3108179
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) declined his claim for a stolen 
tablet.
What happened
Mr J purchased his tablet in March 2021 and arranged cover with AGI for accidental 
damage, loss and theft.
On 28 July 2021 Mr J went to a local park to watch a rugby match with friends. He took his 
tablet with him so he could also complete some work. After the rugby match had finished, he 
played rugby with some friends. Whilst playing, he left the tablet on a bench nearby looking 
to check on the device during this time.
 
Around 20 minutes later when Mr J had finished playing rugby, he went to collect his device 
but noticed it had been stolen. He contacted AGI the same day to make a claim, but the 
claim was declined as AGI felt Mr J hadnt taken reasonable care by leaving the device 
unattended in a public place.
Mr J referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think AGI had treated Mr J 
unfairly in declining the claim, so she didnt ask them to do anything more. As Mr J remained 
unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr J and Ive explained my reasoning below.
AGI are required to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. The policy provides cover for loss, theft, damage and breakdown. However, it 
also provides details of exclusions to that cover.
One of those exclusions is where reasonable care hasnt been taken to secure the device 
and not taking care is the exclusion AGI have relied on in declining the claim. The policy 
defines what taking care of your device means, it says:
Taking care of your mobile device means:
Not knowingly leaving your mobile device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged. Just think would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your mobile device somewhere then we expect you to lock it 
away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it 
with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
And in the event of a claim it says:
If you knowingly leave your mobile device where others can see it but you cannot 
and your mobile device is then lost or stolen we may not pay your claim.
We will always take into account where you are and what you are doing when we 
assess whether you have taken care of your device If we believe you have not taken 
care of your mobile device, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline 
your claim.
Mr J left the device on a park bench whilst he played rugby. I appreciate he has said he was 
15-20 meters away and had looked over to check the device a few times. However, 
participating in a game of rugby for 20 minutes would likely have taken Mr Js attention away 
from the device at some points and this is evident as he didnt see the device being taken.
It isnt clear if the device was concealed or not, the initial report suggests not but during the 
call with AGI Mr J said it was in a bag. However, even if the device was in a bag, I dont think 
a bench in a public park is a safe place. 
I say this because the bag was out in the open for all to see and it was unattended. So, its 
more likely to be stolen than if someone was looking after it. Mr J was a fair distance from it 
and as there are generally no restrictions to parks on who comes and goes the device was 
open to anyone that may have come across it. And given Mr Js comments I dont think he 
was confident it was safe as he said himself, he was looking over to check on the device 
during the game, this suggests he was aware there was a risk with where he had left it.
I understand Mr J said he couldnt hold the device whilst playing so felt he had no other 
option but to leave the device on the bench. However, the policy terms say the device should 
be locked away out of sight and if it cant be you should conceal it out of sight in a safe 
place. Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality, it was Mr Js choice to leave it 
unattended and take the risk, but that doesnt mean AGI should cover the claim. The policy 
terms are clear that Mr J needed to take reasonable care, as Mr J left the device unattended 
in a public place, I dont think AGI have treated him unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr J has said as the device was stolen AGI should have asked him to obtain a police report 
as this is the process when a theft has taken place. AGI havent disputed a theft took place, 
but as they felt Mr J hadnt taken reasonable care to secure the device, they declined the 
claim in line with their policy terms. As they werent looking to investigate the claim further 
its not surprising they didnt ask for this information.
So, while Im sorry to hear Mr J has lost his device and needs to purchase a replacement, I 
dont think AIG have done anything wrong in declining the claim.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman