DRN-3854587
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC continued to charge a monthly fee for her 
Travel Pack during the time that the government imposed pandemic restrictions were in 
place.
Mrs C says that Barclays shouldve provided the Travel Pack for free as she was unable to 
make use of the insurance benefits it provided.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in this matter. 
Mrs C disagreed and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs C feels that Barclays shouldve removed the monthly fee for the Travel 
Pack on the grounds that she was unable to use the benefits (such as travel insurance and 
breakdown cover) it provided.
However, the Travel Pack is sold and provided as a package. Because of this, account 
holders are unable to pick and choose what it comes with. That also means it comes at a 
fixed price. Therefore, if account holders dont feel that it continues to provide value for 
money for them, it is up to them to cancel it.
In this case, Mrs C mayve felt (quite understandably) that the Pack was poor value for 
money for her during the pandemic. And I appreciate that other insurance product providers 
did include a discount or refund on premiums paid, due to the policy holders not being able 
to travel. But the Travel Pack does not operate like a typical insurance policy. Rather than 
offering to provide cover for set amount of time - usually 12 months or for a specific trip - like 
a typical insurance policy would, it provides cover (and access to non-insurance benefits) on 
a monthly rolling basis. 
This means that Mrs C was free to cancel it at any time, as soon as she felt it was no longer 
good value for money for her circumstances. Because of this, I dont think it is reasonable to 
hold Barclays responsible because, for whatever reason, Mrs C choose to keep the Pack 
running on her account, rather than ask for the Pack to be cancelled.
I note that Mrs C says that travelling abroad was illegal because of the government-imposed 
restrictions on travelling abroad and so essentially says there was no insured risk. 
I should firstly highlight that it did provide cover for trips in the UK. And it also provided 
cancellation cover (although the scope of cancellation cover did eventually change on most 
policies, once Covid became a known risk). So although Mrs C may not have needed the 
travel cover, other Pack holders did. Indeed, Barclays has told our service that it temporarily 
stopped selling Travel Packs for a period of time, because the travel insurer was inundated 
with cancellation claims and queries.
As such, given that other Pack holders were still relying on the cover provided by the pack, 
and given that the Pack could be cancelled at any time by Mrs C, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Barclays didnt reduce the cost (either partially or in full) for Mrs C.  
I note that Mrs C did eventually ask for the Pack to be removed from her account in January 
2022. However, looking at the evidence provided by Barclays, I cant see that there were any 
requests to actually cancel the Pack prior to this date. 
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman