DRN-3754213
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about a secured loan that is administered by Target Servicing Limited. 
He is unhappy that Target is pursuing him for the balance of the loan, as he doesnt consider 
there is a valid debt and there shouldnt be a charge attached to the title of his property. 
The loan is owned by lender C, which is not regulated, and so Target was appointed to 
administer the account. 
What happened
Mr G took out a second charge secured loan with lender W in 2008 for £20,000 over a term 
of 15 years. The contractual monthly payment (CMP) was £379.53, and the interest rate was 
24.23% variable.
It appears that Mr G made the CMPs until October 2011. After that he made payments of 
less than the CMP until the spring of 2018. Following that he made a payment of less than 
the CMP in January 2019, and nothing since. Arrears built on the account throughout.
The loan was transferred to lender C in 2018 and Mr G was written to by Target, on behalf of 
lender C, on 23 May 2018 to explain what was happening with his loan. It confirmed the 
existing charge on the title would be changed to show the new lender.
From the autumn of 2018 Target attempted to discuss the payments being made to the 
account as they were less than the CMP and became infrequent, but it was unable to 
contact him by telephone and he didnt respond to requests to contact it. As such, it sent a 
field agent to visit Mr G to obtain information about his circumstances. It was established that 
the property the loan was secured on was rented out and Mr G no longer lived there. He 
hadnt informed Target that this was the case, nor had he provided a correspondence 
address.
Subsequently, Target managed to contact Mr G by telephone several times in 2019. 
However he either refused to complete security, so it couldnt discuss the account with him, 
or he simply declined to speak to it. Around the same time Target traced an address for 
Mr G, but he didnt respond to the letter it sent him and so it couldnt be certain the address 
was correct and couldnt send him correspondence. As such, it continued to try to contact 
him by telephone throughout, but either Mr G didnt answer the calls or, when he did answer, 
refused to speak to Target.
In light of the arrears on the loan, and the lack of co-operation from Mr G, Target decided to 
start legal proceedings to repossess the property at the start of 2022. Shortly thereafter Mr G 
contacted Target to complain about being pursued for the loan balance, as he considered 
the loan was no longer valid. He was also unhappy that there was a charge against his 
property and said he hadnt been told about its existence.
Target responded to the complaint and provided Mr G with a copy of the loan agreement he 
had signed to evidence its validity and that of the charge against the property. It also 
confirmed that having reviewed the last six months of correspondence, it didnt accept that it 
had harassed him about the debt, but had simply issued the letters it was required to by the 
regulator, given the last payment had been made in 2019.
Mr G asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into his complaint. One of our 
investigators did so, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr G didnt accept the 
investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. He 
continued to question the validity of the loan agreement and put forward that Target had told 
him that the loan was unregulated. He made no comment on the investigators findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Mr G took out the loan with lender W in 2008, indeed, he confirmed that 
was the case in his earliest correspondence with us regarding the complaint. I am also 
satisfied that debt still existed in 2018 when it was transferred to lender C, as there remained 
several years on the term left, Mr G had been paying less than the CMP for many years at 
that point, indicating that the balance would not have reduced even as it should have, and 
there is no evidence the loan had been repaid early. As our investigator confirmed, the 
transfer of the loan to a different lender didnt invalidate the loan agreement or cancel the 
debt owed as the loan terms and conditions allowed this to happen. I am also satisfied that 
Mr G was informed that the loan had been transferred to lender C in 2018 and that lender C 
would replace lender W on the charge against the Land Registry title. As the loan is, and 
always has been secured, and there is a debt owning, there is no reason why Target should 
remove the charge on behalf of lender C. 
A lender, or administrator on its behalf, is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears 
situation. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at ways to help. Balanced against 
that is the lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
As such, I cant find that it was unreasonable for Target, as the administrator for the account, 
to attempt to contact Mr G about the arrears situation. Given his lack of co-operation with 
that process, I also dont think that appointing field agents to find out information about the 
situation was unreasonable. Nor do I consider that Target was wrong to commence legal 
proceedings when it did  no payments had been made in over two years and there was a 
significant level of arrears. It is unfortunate that Mr G felt that the contact Target made 
constituted harassment, but as I explained above, Target was expected to try to help Mr G if 
it could, and in order to do so, it needed to contact him. In addition, as the administrator of 
the loan, Target is required to keep a borrower informed of the status of their account if it is 
in arrears. While Mr G may not have welcomed the attempts at contacting him, or the 
information about arrears situation, I cant find that Target was wrong to do so or acted 
inappropriately when it did. 
As our investigator confirmed, if Mr G is unhappy about the handling of subject access 
requests he has made to Target, the appropriate body to deal with those concerns is the 
Information Commissioners Office. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2023.
 
Derry BaxterOmbudsman