DRN-2750869
The complaint
This complaint is about Miss Ms jointly-held mortgage with Santander UK plc. Shes 
unhappy that Santander sent a letter about the fixed rate product coming to an end to the 
other borrower (her former partner) instead of to her. 
This meant the mortgage went onto Santanders standard variable rate (SVR) for a month 
before a new rate deal was applied to the mortgage. Miss M is also unhappy that when a 
new deal was applied, it was a variable tracker rate rather than the fixed rate she needs for 
budgeting purposes.
 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in detail 
here; not least because many of the circumstances are a little out of the ordinary and not 
commonplace. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Miss M being identified. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because 
I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss M holds the mortgage jointly with her former partner, but he hasnt lived in the 
mortgaged property or contributed to the mortgage payments for many years. Theyre 
completely estranged and not on good terms. Miss M has lived in the mortgage property, 
making the mortgage payments on her own. 
During that time, the mortgage has had various different fixed rate products applied to it. In 
January 2019, Santander told Miss M on the phone that her then current fixed rate would 
end in November 2019. She was told the same thing in June 2019; she was also told shed 
receive a reminder letter shortly before expiry.
Miss M didnt receive a reminder letter, and the expiry date passed without a new product 
being put in place, so the mortgage went onto SVR. In December 2019, after a lot of 
confusion and contradictory information, Santander agreed to put the mortgage onto what it 
calls a follow-on rate; thats a variable tracker rate with no product fee or no early 
repayment charge (ERC). It also confirmed that the reminder letter had been sent to Miss 
Ms former partner instead of her.
Santander offered Miss M £75 compensation for having sent the reminder letter to her 
former partner, but said the follow-on rate was the only new product it could apply without 
her former partners consent.
Our investigator sympathised with Miss Ms situation, finding that the reminder letter should 
have seen sent to her. But the investigator thought Santander had responded fairly to the 
complaint. Miss M doesnt agree so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wasnt obliged to send out a reminder letter. Its not a regulatory requirement, and 
when lenders to send out such letters, its because they want to retain their customers 
business rather than have them take the mortgage elsewhere. 
Im satisfied Santander had told Miss M (twice) when the current fixed rate was due to end, 
so she shouldnt have been reliant on receiving a reminder letter in order to arrange a new 
deal. Because of that, I dont find Santander should offer redress for the extra interest cost of 
the mortgage being on SVR for a month.
However, given Santander had told Miss M it would send a reminder, it should have made 
sure that happened, simply as a matter of courtesy and good service. Sending it to her 
former partner instead was a mistake, and a rather insensitive one at that. That having been 
said, I think the offer of £75 compensation is broadly fair.
Situations such as Miss Ms are difficult in the extreme, but they also present challenges to 
lenders. On the one hand, Santander must act sensitively and try to avoid doing anything 
that might prejudice Miss Ms safety or cause her undue or unnecessary stress. On the other 
hand, it also has to treat her co-borrower fairly. 
Put simply, Santander shouldnt make changes to the mortgage that have an adverse 
financial effect (such as adding a product fee to the balance or introducing an ERC) unless 
both parties have expressly consented. 
I appreciate Miss M says thats that happened in 2017; I cant consider what happened in 
2017, only what happened in 2019. Its always possible the 2017 product was applied by 
mistake, or that Santander made an exception. But if the latter was the case, that doesnt 
mean Santander must always do so.
Getting back to 2019, Miss Ms former partner wasnt interested in consenting to a new deal 
being applied, so that ruled out Miss Ms preference of a fixed rate product, because they all 
came with a product fee and/or an ERC. That being the case, the follow-on rate was the best 
alternative to leaving the mortgage on SVR, and therefore the right thing (realistically the 
only thing) for Santander to do in the absence of consent from Miss Ms former partner.
Miss M is in a horrible situation. Im conscious shes pursuing legal advice on how to take 
sole ownership of the property and sole responsibility for the mortgage, and I wish her well in 
that. But for all the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded Santander should do more 
than it has already done to deal with the problems that occurred when the fixed rate ended in 
November 2019.
My final decisionI have considerable sympathy for Miss Ms circumstances, but for the reasons given, I dont 
uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman