DRN-3698868
The complaint
Mr R complains that It IS Your Money Ltd (IIYM) misled him about the level of 
compensation he would receive in relation to his claim for a mis-sold pension. 
What happened
Mr R instructed IIYM to handle his claim for a mis-sold pension. A few days after signing the 
Letter of Engagement, Mr R asked IIYM, if successful, how much compensation he could 
expect. IIYM responded and explained their average compensation for customers was about 
£6,000 but theyve achieved some larger awards of around £30,000 to £35,000 as well as 
some smaller amounts. Mr Rs claim was upheld, and he was awarded compensation of 
£77,495.27. IIYM sent their invoice for £32,548.01 to Mr R and he complained as he felt hed 
been misled during the cooling off period about the level of compensation to expect. He said, 
had he known his compensation would be this high he wouldve negotiated a fixed cap on 
the fee or cancelled his instructions. 
IIYM responded and explained theyd provided an average of the compensation awards 
theyd achieved and not an estimate of the compensation Mr R would likely receive. IIYM 
said, at such an early stage in the claim, it wouldve been impossible to know how the claim 
would be resolved. IIYM explained they discovered the claim would be upheld and the 
compensation would be high in March 2022 as thats when the pension provider said they 
would be using an additional calculation. IIYM explained the Letter of Engagement sets out 
their fee of 35% + VAT and theyd acted in line with this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought IIYM hadnt misled Mr R and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute that Mr R instructed IIYM to handle his claim. I can see Mr R asks IIYM, 
If our case is successful, how much compensation would you expect. This query is raised 
with IIYM within the cooling off period following Mr R signing the Letter of Engagement. 
IIYM reply and refer to their larger awards being in the region of £30,000 to £35,000. They 
also refer to the average award being £6,000 and smaller awards in the region of £1,000 to 
£2,000. I understand Mr R feels IIYM misled him by referring to these awards but Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr R as I dont think this information is misleading. In the same email, IIYM say 
This case is at such a very early stage to tell just yet whether or not we will win and, if so, 
how much we may get back for you. IIYM also say that figures are calculated on a case by 
case basis with the calculation process for this product being extremely complicated. 
I do acknowledge Mr Rs concern, but Im not persuaded the reply from IIYM provides any 
guarantee, estimation or calculated figure for the compensation Mr R would likely receive. In 
his email to IIYM, as well as asking the likely compensation award, Mr R also asks the 
percentage success rates IIYM have had with similar claims. IIYM respond with the range of 
awards theyve recovered. Looking at the email response from IIYM, I dont think theres any 
attempt there to provide Mr R with an estimate of the award he could expect for his individual 
claim. As mentioned by IIYM, they wouldnt have known at that early stage how the claim 
would resolve  and I think their email supports this. 
I can see Mr R feels he was deliberately misled and has provided screenshots from IIYMs 
social media account which he feels contradicts their reply to him about how much 
compensation to expect. Ive looked at the screenshots and they refer to awards such as 
£53,000 and £75,000 theyve recovered for other customers  and all of these being prior to 
their reply to Mr Rs queries. I note Mr R feels IIYM misled him because they didnt refer to 
these awards in their reply to him, and instead referred to their larger awards being in the 
region of £30,000 to £35,000. I note Mr R believes IIYM did this so he wouldnt expect an 
award greater than £35,000  which wouldve generated a lower total fee. 
I do understand Mr Rs point, but Im not persuaded this contradicts IIYMs reply to Mr R as 
their reply talks in generic terms about some of the higher awards theyve recovered. They 
dont say £35,000 is the highest theyve recovered and, while I agree they havent made 
reference to the awards in the screenshots which are higher than £35,000, I dont believe 
this was an attempt to mislead Mr R. I say this because IIYM do make it clear that 
compensation awards are calculated on a case by case basis.  
I understand Mr R feels, at the time of their reply, IIYM had all the information necessary to 
give him an estimate of the likely compensation. Its not clear from the information Ive seen 
what details IIYM had at that time, but I dont believe that changes things as IIYMs reply isnt 
an estimate based on the information they have about Mr Rs claim, but as mentioned 
above, a generic indication of the awards theyve recovered. 
I note Mr R feels IIYM shouldve told him about a consultation paper around fee caps at the 
time he signed the Letter of Engagement. The fee cap Mr R is referring to came into force in 
March 2022 and applies to claims started on or after this date. I cant see there was any 
requirement for IIYM to inform Mr R about the consultation at the time he signed the Letter of 
Engagement so I cant say theyve acted unfairly here. 
I do acknowledge Mr R received just less than £45,000 after IIYMs fees  and this is 
significantly higher than the £35,000 mentioned in IIYMs reply. I also acknowledge Mr Rs 
point about the purpose of a successful claim being to put the claiming party back in the 
position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. I have taken this into account, but 
the Letter of Engagement does make it clear that IIYMs fee is 35% + VAT of any 
compensation they recover, so I cant say they acted against this agreement. Its the 
settlement of the claim with the pension provider which seeks to put Mr R back in the 
position he wouldve been in had the pension provider not made an error  and thats what 
the original award represents. The compensation Mr R actually receives is less than this 
because of IIYMs fees  which, as Ive mentioned, theyre entitled to charge.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman