DRN-4138509
The complaint
Mr G has complained about a kitchen installation he paid for using a fixed sum loan with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). 
What happened
Mr G entered into a five-year fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in July 2021 to pay for a 
kitchen and installation. The supply and fit cost £25,310.89 and he made an advance 
payment of £1,297.03.
Im not going to cover off all the issues in detail because both parties are aware of the 
circumstances. But in summary, Mr G was unhappy with the quality of the kitchen, and he 
says it wasnt installed with reasonable care and skill. Mr G says the supplier had to return 
numerous times to try to remedy issues, and the kitchen is still not to satisfaction. The issues 
Mr G has complained about include:
Excessive movement and damage on the cupboard housing the washing machine. 
General alignment issues. 
Units not closing correctly.
Replacement units not of the same colour. 
Marks and chips on the units. 
Incorrect hinges used.
Excessive force needed to open certain units. 
Extractor rattling. 
Paint wearing off units and worktop colour fading. 
Tap wont always return to housing. 
Ceiling damage during the installation.
Incorrect installation of the wine cooler.
Mr G complained to the supplier and the card issuer used when making the advance 
payment. He also complained to BPF in February 2022. Around this time the supplier came 
to inspect the property. It put forward a proposal of work, but I understand Mr G wasnt 
happy with this as things were missing. 
BPF instructed an independent report but it didnt go ahead. The supplier made various 
offers to resolve things. The most up-to-date offer was for a £5,000 price reduction with the 
warranty on the kitchen units and worktops to remain. But warranty on the decorative 
products such as doors, decors, cornice, plinth, pelmet to be void.
The supplier had also offered two other options. The first of which was to arrange an 
independent report. And the other was to allow Mr G to reject the kitchen. Hed be allowed to 
use his own removers and the supplier offered to cover the cost up to £350. 
Mr G wasnt happy with any of the offers. He requested a bigger price reduction. BPF 
thought the suppliers offers were fair. 
Our investigator looked into things. She thought that, based on the evidence she had, that 
the offer I set out above in relation to the price reduction was fair. But that BPF should also 
pay Mr G £300 compensation. BPF agreed, but Mr G didnt. He said he didnt want to accept 
rejection. He said he had a perfectly good kitchen before. And he reiterated the price 
reduction wasnt acceptable. He said hed had over 18 deliveries, 50 agents of the supplier 
visit him and hes been put to a lot of distress and inconvenience. He said the compensation 
offered doesnt match his effort and lack of facilities. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I also want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr G and BPF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr G paid for the kitchen using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes BPF responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. 
And that services should be performed within a reasonable amount of time. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets 
out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services 
contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against the supplier. Im 
considering a complaint against BPF. So I have to consider BPFs obligations as a provider 
of financial services  in this case its liability for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
under section 75. 
Its also important to note that compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the 
supplier is limited with this type of complaint. I appreciate Mr G is very upset about whats 
happened and hes been put to inconvenience with having various return visits. But I have to 
consider what BPF can be held liable for  which is the like claim Mr G would have in court 
against the supplier for breach of contract or misrepresentation. Courts do consider whats 
known as general damages. But damages arent generally recoverable for distress or 
inconvenience. Awards in building cases where theres been a breach of contract which 
caused the claimant physical distress or discomfort can be made, but they tend to be 
modest. While I appreciate Mr G is unhappy hes been living with a kitchen with issues, I 
dont think the nature of the issues have caused significant physical inconvenience or 
discomfort. I therefore dont have the grounds to direct BPF to pay significant compensation 
for this.
We dont have an independent report available to review. But Ive considered the 
submissions from Mr G and BPF. Mr G has supplied some photos of examples of things 
wrong with the kitchen. The supplier has acknowledged things have gone wrong. And I 
understand theres also been various attempts to remedy issues. So I think theres enough to demonstrate theres been a breach of contract because the installation wasnt carried out 
with reasonable skill and care, or the goods are not of satisfactory quality. 
Where rights under a services contract arent met, the CRA sets out that depending on the 
circumstances consumers can request, amongst other things, either repeat performance or a 
price reduction. Mr G has said theres been various attempts at repeat performance, but the 
kitchen still isnt to his satisfaction. Given how long things have taken I think it fair a price 
reduction was explored. 
BPF via the supplier, has offered a £5,000 price reduction. The total cost of the kitchen and 
fitting, less the appliances come to around £20,000. So the price reduction on offer is around 
25% of the kitchen and fitting. 
I can understand why Mr G is unhappy that if he were to take the price reduction then hed 
still have a kitchen he wasnt happy with. Given the number of attempts already made Im 
not confident that directing BPF to arrange a further repeat performance attempt will resolve 
things. Im also conscious that Mr G might not be able to simply get another company in to 
remedy things to his satisfaction for this particular make and model. Mr G has indicated he 
wants a substantially higher price reduction. But Ive got no evidence to support what the 
cost would be to put things right. Again, I need to think about BPFs liability for the breach of 
contract. Mr G hasnt provided evidence for me to say the price reduction hes requesting is 
fairer than the price reduction that BPF, via the supplier, is offering. While I appreciate Mr G 
has provided photos and his account of whats happened, theres not a foundation for me to 
direct BPF to increase the price reduction. 
What I also have to bear in mind is that Mr G has broadly been given a different offer of a full 
refund (not including appliances) so that he can, in effect, start again. And hes also been 
offered a sum so that he could arrange the kitchen to be removed using his own contractor. I 
appreciate hed have the inconvenience of having to purchase a new kitchen, but hed be 
able to draw a line under things with the current supplier and not have to run the risk of 
further repairs that dont work or living with a kitchen hes not happy with. 
With the option of removing the kitchen, I dont think Mr G should be left out of pocket. I find 
the offer of £350 for the removal to be broadly fair. But I dont think it fair he should have to 
pay twice for works in relation to plumbing, gas and electrics for instance. I would imagine, 
however, that the risk of that happening will be tempered by the fact Mr G wants to keep the 
appliances. 
So, as the respondent, and taking account of its liability under section 75, BPF needs to take 
ownership of the offers. I think Mr G should have the option to keep the kitchen with a 
£5,000 price reduction along with the warranties that the supplier has offered. Or he should 
have the option of a full refund for the kitchen and fitting so he can start again. 
For the second option, as Mr G doesnt want the supplier to remove the kitchen, I think it fair 
hes given £350 for the cost of removal. I appreciate hes very unhappy with the 
inconvenience caused, but Im mindful hed not be asked to pay for any use of the kitchen for 
the last year and a half. As Ive said, I think he should be reimbursed for any reasonable 
costs he incurs hes effectively already paid for, should there be any. This would be in 
relation to gas, electric or plumbing. Hed have to provide details of the works and evidence 
of the costs. And Im minded saying these costs should be capped at £500. 
BPF has agreed to pay £300 compensation. Ive thought about how it handled things 
generally. Given the complaint was raised in February 2022, I think it took longer than it 
ought to have for Mr Gs claim to be fully answered by BPF  over six months. But Im 
mindful that it referred the complaint to the supplier. It tried to organise an independent report for Mr G. Mr G was liaising with the supplier. And Mr G had also referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman to consider as well. 
Moreover, I cant hold BPF responsible for the suppliers customer service. I think BPF has 
tried to take steps to resolve things for Mr G. Its not been the sole cause of significant 
delays. Ive explained above what BPF can fairly be held liable for with regards to 
compensation in relation to the breach of contract. Ive also explained that no deduction has 
been made for the use Mr Gs had of the kitchen. In the round, I find the £300 compensation 
its agreed to be broadly fair. And I think this should be paid if Mr G takes up either option. 
Therefore, Im proposing BPF carries out one of the following depending on Mr Gs 
response:
1. - Arrange the price reduction of £5,000 and confirm with the supplier it will honour the 
warranties it agreed to as set out above.
- Pay Mr G £300.
or
2. - End the agreement and remove all record of it from Mr Gs credit file.
- Pay Mr G £350 so he can arrange for the kitchen (not appliances) to be removed. 
- Arrange for the supplier to collect the kitchen within 28 days of it being removed.
- Reimburse Mr G the reasonable cost (up to £500) for any works required for a new 
kitchen that hes already paid for in relation to gas, electric or plumbing  subject to a 
description of the works and evidence of the cost having been paid.
- Pay Mr G £300
Mr G should let us know in response to this provisional decision which option he wants to 
take. Option 2 is on the basis that Mr G hasnt made payment towards the agreement. If 
thats not right he should let us know. I should highlight Mr G doesnt have to accept either 
option and that hes also free to pursue the complaint by other means, such as through the 
courts. 
Mr G responded to say hed done some research for the range of kitchen hed bought and 
that hes found the units develop a multitude of faults over time. He says his concern is that 
without a warranty on certain parts hed be left with a poor kitchen. And he thinks the price 
reduction doesnt take into account any risk he has with the units going forward. Mr G said 
he had two potential solutions:
1. A further price reduction to cover the complete loss of warranty. 
2. Reinstate the warranty with the condition that he cant claim for any of the current 
concerns hed outlined. But if new concerns arise, he should be able to claim under 
warranty. 
We put Mr Gs response to BPF but it said it was willing to accept the recommendations 
made under the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. Ive already set out 
in that decision why I dont have the evidence to justify a larger price reduction. Ive not seen 
that the price reduction of £5,000 isnt sufficient, even with only the warranty on the kitchen 
units and worktops to remain. I also want to highlight that this was an offer from BPF, via the supplier. Ive set out above 
why I broadly think its a fair offer based on the limited evidence I have. And why Ive not got 
the grounds to direct BPF to do more. Im also mindful that Mr G has the offer to, to a large 
extent, start again. So if he has concerns with the product he bought and the future issues 
that might arrive which wont be covered under warranty, he does have the option to have 
the kitchen removed and receive a refund. Had neither party put forward any suggestions, 
this is what I likely would have recommended as a way to resolve things. 
If Mr G were to accept the first option, hes free to contact the supplier about issues that 
havent already been highlighted. But the complaint Im considering is against BPF and its 
liability under section 75. So Id not be able to make a direction in relation into what the 
supplier itself has to offer within its warranty under this decision. That would be up to its own 
discretion. Moreover, as with point 1, I dont have the evidence to know if a £5,000 price 
reduction is over and above what it would cost to remedy any issues Mr G has had or may 
have in the future. So Im not going to direct BPF to arrange a change in the warranty offer. 
Mr G hasnt told us hes paid anything towards the agreement. And as I said in the 
provisional decision, hes still free to pursue the complaint by other means if he doesnt wish 
to accept either option. Therefore, having considered the responses, Im not minded to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Although for the avoidance 
of doubt, with option 2, Ive said the agreement should only be ended once Mr G has paid for 
the items hed keep.  
Putting things right
To put things right, BPF should carry out one of the following depending on Mr Gs response:
1. - Arrange the price reduction of £5,000 and confirm with the supplier it will honour the 
warranties for the units and worktops.
- Pay Mr G £300.
or
2. - End the agreement and remove all record of it from Mr Gs credit file (once Mr G 
has paid for the items hes keeping).
- Pay Mr G £350 so he can arrange for the kitchen (not appliances) to be removed. 
- Arrange for the supplier to collect the kitchen within 28 days of it being removed.
- Reimburse Mr G the reasonable cost (up to £500) for any works required for a new 
kitchen that hes already paid for in relation to gas, electric or plumbing  subject to a 
description of the works and evidence of the cost having been paid.
- Pay Mr G £300
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman