DRN-1705170
 
The complaint
Mr J says Barclays Bank plc (Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr J took out a credit card in December 2001 through a postal application. A few years later 
in June 2004 he was then sold a PPI policy on this card, during  a phone call. The credit card 
ended in or before May 2012.
Mr J says he was told PPI was part of having the card. He thinks Barclaycard mis-sold the 
policy to him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and I will explain why.
I think Barclaycard made Mr J aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I 
have been able to see a call script from around the time of sale that would have been used 
by a representative from Barclaycard. I cant be sure if the script was followed during the call 
to Mr J, but I can see in the script that the representative would have needed to seek 
consent from Mr J before proceeding to at the PPI policy. So I am persuaded after seeing 
this that Barclaycard would have offered the PPI policy to Mr J and he chose it.
In addition, I can see that Mr J took out the credit card in December 2001, over two years 
before the phone call took place and he had the PPI policy added. So although I 
acknowledge what Mr J has said, I think he would have known the PPI policy was a separate 
product from the credit card that he already had. 
I think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr J, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He says he had less than 
3 months worth of sick pay, so I think he would have found the benefit offered by the policy 
useful in an extended period of sickness or unemployment. I couldnt find any other reason 
why the policy would be unsuitable for Mr J such as a restrictive or limiting term.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But even if he had been given clear information, I think he would have taken the policy anyway for the reasons I have already given. The policy was also competitively priced 
and affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr J would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.
In conclusion, I dont think Barclaycard has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But 
Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclaycard expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr J 
about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Barclays Bank Plc has paid back to Mr J any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I don't think it needs to do anymore than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman