DRN-3142250
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wrongly provided late payment information 
about him to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Capital One. He missed a minimum monthly payment in 
May 2021.
In June 2021, Capital One chased Mr B for the payment. During a telephone conversation, it 
was agreed that Mr B would set up a direct debit to cover payments to the account. The first 
payment was taken on 1 July 2021.
Capital One reported the late payment to credit reference agencies. Mr B says they shouldnt 
have done so. 
He says if hed been told during the telephone conversation with Capital One that making a 
payment on 1 July 2021 would lead to the late payment being reported, he would have paid 
the amount required sooner, if not immediately.
When Mr B complained to Capital One about this, they caused the late payment information 
to be removed from the credit reference agency records. 
But Mr B remained unhappy because he said hed lost a £200 non-returnable deposit hed 
put down on a car at this time.
Mr B says the only reason he wasnt able to obtain sufficient credit to buy the car was the 
late payment information provided by Capital One on his credit record.
He says he had agreement to get sufficient credit to buy the car a little while beforehand, but 
hed decided not to go through with the purchase because the garage couldnt guarantee a 
delivery date. 
And when he later went ahead and tried to purchase the car - after Capital One had added 
the late payment information to this credit file - the car finance company hadnt been willing 
to offer him enough credit to buy the car. 
And so, he lost the £200 non-returnable deposit hed put down.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He wants Capital One to pay him the £200 he lost plus 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One have agreed that the conversation with Mr B about the late payment might have 
been clearer. Mr B contacted them to make the payment as soon as they informed him it 
was late. 
He says he was able to pay immediately and would have done so, had he been told that 
setting up the direct debit as was agreed would lead to Capital One reporting the late 
payment to the credit reference agencies. 
Capital One admit that they ought to have been clearer that the late payment would be 
reported. And for that reason, they agreed to remove the late payment information from 
Mr Bs credit reference record.
Capital One are entitled to make that decision, taking into account all the circumstances and 
their own business processes and approach. But I dont think they were obliged to do so in 
any way. 
Mr Bs payment was already late, before he had the conversation with Capital One. That 
conversation was the result of Capital One chasing Mr B for the late payment. 
Mr B says he didnt get the usual text from Capital One to tell him the monthly payment was 
due. But he ought to have known it was due  its his responsibility to keep up to date with 
payments on his credit accounts.
In short, Capital One were entitled  if not under an obligation  to report the late payment. 
And they were entitled to do that as soon as the payment was missed  and before Mr B 
responded to their chasing him for the payment. Theyve not acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr B by reporting the late payment.
Im aware that Mr Bs credit record has other information which will affect his credit score 
and credit applications, including a County Court Judgement. 
So, Im not convinced its fair in any case to hold Capital Ones provision of late payment 
information entirely responsible for the failed application for sufficient credit to buy the car.
However, thats not the key issue for me in this case. Even if the late payment information 
provided by Capital One had the consequences Mr B said it did, they were entitled to report 
the late payment to the credit reference agencies.
Im assuming from what Mr B has told us that he thinks reporting to credit reference 
agencies takes place on a monthly basis  and that therefore late payments will only be 
reported if they are a full month or more late. This would explain why he thinks making the 
payment slightly earlier would have led to the late payment not being reported.
However, businesses report credit reference information in different ways. And their 
obligation is to make sure that information is accurate. The information about Mr Bs late 
payment was accurate. And, obviously, it was reported only after the payment was late. 
So, I dont think Capital One have in any way treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way theyve handled this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman