DRN-2280868
The complaint
Mr D complains Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) unfairly applied a default to his credit 
file following missed payments on his credit card account. He says it hadnt taken his 
payments by direct debit and it was aware he wasnt in the country and was unable to make 
manual payments or receive the default notices.
What happened
Mr D has a credit card account with Sainsburys. His monthly statements show he usually 
cleared the full amount outstanding by direct debit each month. On 3 October 2018, Mr D 
called Sainsburys to log a complaint and to query whether his most recent direct debit 
payment had gone through as it hadnt done for a few months. He was initially told the 
payment had been taken. But after calling back again and some further investigation, he was 
told it had initially been taken but then reversed so no payment had been made. 
During this call Mr D explained hed called several times since June 2018 as his bank told 
him the problem was at Sainsburys end. The call handler initially explained when a 
payment is reversed its normally the other banks fault but accepted it probably wasnt here.
As Mr D was going abroad for several months the following day, he said he needed to get 
the issue sorted as there would be no other way for him to make payments. The call handler 
removed the direct debit and set it up again to fix the problem. And paid £100 as 
compensation to Mr Ds account to cover some of the outstanding balance in case there was 
still a problem. They discussed an alternative way to pay which involved Mr D visiting a
branch of his bank and the call handler arranged a call back the next day from another team 
who would investigate things in more detail. Sainsburys doesnt have a recording of the call 
the following day. And in its internal notes, its said although it should have, a further 
investigation didnt take place. 
Mr D didnt make any further payments to his account. And the following month, the direct 
debit payment wasnt taken at all. This continued until January 2019 when a late fee was 
added to Mr Ds account and a pre-default notice sent to his home address. Mr D had 
previously contacted Sainsburys a few times to let it know he couldnt be reached using his 
usual details and providing an alternative telephone number and address.
On 14 January 2019, a final response letter was sent to Mr D by email about his complaint 
and shortly afterwards on 21 January 2019, a default notice was sent to his home address 
directing him to make payment. On 29 January 2019, a further final response letter was sent 
by email directing Mr D to get in touch with the international phone team. And a few days 
later he was sent an email saying his direct debit had been cancelled and he needed to set it 
up again. Sainsburys has said it wasnt able to send Mr D the default notices by email.
A default was registered on 18 February 2019. Mr D says he didnt become aware of this 
until he returned to his address in the United Kingdom (UK) around July 2019. Mr D 
brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it because he thought the 
default had been correctly applied in line with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
guidance. And Mr D had a contractual responsibility to make sure the payments were met. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. I explained I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in summary because:
I couldnt say which business caused the issue with Mr Ds payments being taken but I 
didnt think it made a difference in this case. 
I thought it was likely the last conversation Mr D had with Sainsburys before he left the 
country was the call on 3 October 2018 during which he was told not to worry about his 
payments not being taken as the call handler would make sure it didnt happen again.
I was satisfied Mr D was in a position to and wouldve brought his account up to date 
before he left the country if he hadnt been given the impression he didnt need to. And 
had he done so, I didnt think a default wouldve been registered.
I didnt think Mr D was made sufficiently aware the default was going to be added. 
Sainsburys hadnt updated his contact details. And I thought the complaints team 
couldve alerted him to what was happening during its ongoing correspondence. 
Once Mr D was abroad, I didnt think he was in a position to make a payment as he 
usually did this manually in branch and Sainsburys hadnt disputed this. So even if he 
had contacted Sainsburys, I didnt think he couldve done anything to clear the balance. 
To put things right, I thought Sainsburys should remove the default and any late payment 
markers on Mr Ds credit file; refund any fees, interest and charges added due to the late 
payments and pay 8% simple interest on that amount. I also thought it should pay Mr D £150 
compensation.
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Mr D 
agreed with my decision. He had a query about the income tax that can be deducted from 
the interest award but our investigator answered that. Sainsburys disagreed with my 
findings. It said in summary:
It accepted Mr D might not have been able to make a payment from abroad but it thought 
he mustve known he had an outstanding balance or couldve seen this by checking his 
account  including by using the international number he was given. 
The debt was still valid even if it failed to amend the direct debit after the call.
It mightve agreed with my provisional findings had Mr D tried to work with Sainsburys 
while he was abroad and made a reasonable effort to make payments.
Mr D has been able to make a payment since returning to the UK but hasnt done so.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr D and Sainsburys have said in response to my provisional 
decision. And, I still think the complaint should be upheld.
Sainsburys has said Mr D mustve been aware there was an outstanding balance on his 
account that needed to be paid. But I dont think that makes a difference in this case. I say 
that because before he went away, he was told by the call handler he would be paid some 
compensation to cover part of his outstanding balance and he didnt need to worry about 
making any further payments  even after he explained hed be away until the following year. 
He was assured the problem with his payments would be fixed and he didnt need to do 
anything else. So by the time he mightve been aware there was an outstanding balance to 
cover, Im satisfied he wouldve been abroad and not in a position to make a payment. 
I note Sainsburys has said Mr D couldve checked his account from overseas (which I 
presume may have alerted him to the default that was going to be added). But Mr Ds said 
he didnt have access to online banking and Sainsburys has said hed never used it. I 
appreciate Sainsburys has said Mr D couldve used phone banking. But Im not persuaded 
its reasonable to expect him to have called customer services internationally  particularly 
considering in his correspondence he repeatedly said he couldnt do so from abroad and 
asked someone to contact him. 
I know Sainsburys gave Mr D its international number to call so it thinks he shouldve used 
this. But having looked carefully at all of the correspondence given to him, I dont think that 
was enough in this case. The number was in a second final response letter attached to a 
covering email in which the standard 0800 number was given. And much of the 
correspondence he was sent seemed to repeat the same response  so I dont think its 
unreasonable Mr D might not have noticed it. Had the number been more prominent, Im 
satisfied he wouldve called as he seemed keen to speak to someone.
Mr D stayed in touch with Sainsburys by email and asked someone to contact him more 
than once so he could find out what was going on. But no one did. Even if a complaint 
handler couldnt call him, I think it couldve done more to alert Mr D to what was happening 
with his account and why it was important for him to make a payment  even though he was 
previously told he didnt need to. Instead, I can see in its final response letter, Sainsburys 
apologised to Mr D and paid him compensation. Whilst I know this was for the delays, taking 
both the final response letter and his call in October 2018 together, I can understand why in 
this case, Mr D might not have understood the urgency of getting in touch.
Even if Mr D had got in touch, Sainsburys hasnt given me anything to satisfy me he 
wouldve been able to make a payment  or set up his direct debits again. I can see he 
normally needed to make manual payments in branch (which wouldnt have been possible 
from abroad). And during the call in October 2018, the call handler removed and set up the 
direct debit again  but that didnt solve the problem. So even if he had managed to speak to 
someone, I cant see what difference this wouldve made. Sainsburys has said Mr D 
couldve at least made a reasonable effort to work with it while he was away. But from 
everything Ive seen, in the circumstances I think he did.Sainsburys has highlighted Mr D was in a position to make a payment from August 2019 
when he returned to the UK. But I can see he raised his complaint with our service at that 
point because he thought hed been treated unfairly  and hes been waiting for our answer 
since then. So I think his actions show he wasnt ignoring whats happened. Overall I dont 
think Mr Ds acted unreasonably in this case. But I suggest he contacts Sainsburys as soon 
as possible to repay the outstanding balance of his credit card as its still due. If Mr D doesnt 
repay the outstanding debt, Sainsburys may be entitled to take action to recover it. 
To put things right in this case, Sainsburys should:
remove the default and any late payment markers on Mr Ds credit file;
refund any fees, interest and charges added due to the late payments and if hes already 
paid them, add 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the amount was charged 
until the date Sainsburys settles it*
pay Mr D £150 compensation for the distress hes experienced as a result of whats 
happened including his account being closed
*If Sainsburys considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ds complaint 
and direct Sainsbury's Bank Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said.  Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my 
decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman