DRN-2807347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the service received from Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) under a HomeServe Landlord Emergency Plus policy after it was asked to 
investigate a water leak in a rental property. 
What happened
Ive reviewed the background to this case which I consider has been set out clearly by our 
investigator in his view on Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, so I wont repeat it here. Instead Ill 
focus on the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator and Ill give my reasons for doing 
so.
Ive looked at the timeframe relating to this complaint. Mr and Mrs Hs tenants first contacted 
Aviva about a leak behind their washing machine on 24 February 2020. Aviva says that an 
appointment was offered the same day but this wasnt convenient for the tenants. An 
appointment was arranged for 26 February, which was the first convenient day for them. I 
dont consider that Aviva is responsible for any delay over this period.
During the first appointment, which was to deal with the leak behind the washing machine 
which was caused by a leak on the outlet hose, the tenants raised a problem with the slow 
draining sink.  The engineer attempted to clear this as a goodwill gesture but wasnt able to 
do so as he didnt have the necessary equipment with him. I dont consider that Aviva is at 
fault here, as its engineer hadnt been called out to deal with a drain blockage.
The engineer who attended on 29 February with a sanisnake attempted to clear the 
blockage and found evidence of cloth six metres down the pipe, in the sewer. This was 
outside the insured property, and therefore in an area not covered by the policy, which 
states:
Cover Definitions
If your property is a flat, any issues relating to any elements you do not have 
responsibility for; such as communal areas are not covered.
The engineer therefore recommended that Mr and Mrs H contact the water utility company. 
Having found what mightve been responsible for the poor draining away, I think it was 
reasonable for Avivas engineer to have made this recommendation and investigated no 
further. In this respect I dont share our investigators view, which was that this engineer 
shouldve gone further and found the blockage in the communal wastepipe.
After the water utility company had investigated on 29 February and found no blockage in 
the sewer, Mr and Mrs H contacted Aviva again. Aviva missed appointments on 1 and 2 
March. On 3 March a third engineer attended and identified the source of the blockage as 
being in a communal wastepipe, which was then promptly dealt with by the flats managing 
agents.
In addressing Mr and Mrs Hs complaint I need to find that Aviva has done something wrong. 
Mr and Mrs H are upset that their tenants were without the effective use of their kitchen for 
seven days. They say that Avivas delay in identifying the location of the blockage has 
increased damage to a reasonably new floor. Theyve asked for compensation of £500 
towards the replacement of the damaged flooring, and £500 for the stress and 
inconvenience suffered through Avivas handing of the matter.
Dealing firstly with the claim for compensation for damage to the flooring, Aviva has said that 
during this time the tenants didnt use their kitchen appliances or sink. If that is the case, 
theres unlikely to have been any further water causing further damage to the flooring. Im 
therefore unable to agree with Mr and Mrs Hs view that a delay by Aviva in identifying the 
blockage was responsible for further damage to the flooring which in their view would justify 
compensation from Aviva.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the service provided, I agree that there was 
inconvenience caused. There was a gap of two days between the first engineer identifying 
on 26 February that a sanisnake was needed to investigate the poor draining away, and an 
engineer arriving with one on 29 February. Aviva also missed appointments on 1 and 2 
March. This extended the period during which there was inconvenience to the tenants and 
inconvenience and stress on Mr and Mrs H who were anxious that their tenants 
inconvenience be minimised. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked for £500 compensation to cover this. Awards of compensation that 
this service can make arent intended to fine or punish a business. This is the job of the 
businesss regulator. We can award fair compensation that's a proportionate reflection of the 
impact a business's actions (or inaction) has had on their customer. 
In this case I consider that the impact wouldve been greater on Mr and Mrs Hs tenants than 
on Mr and Mrs H themselves, although I do accept that they wouldve suffered considerable 
inconvenience in having to deal with Aviva to ensure that their tenants inconvenience was 
minimised. I cant consider compensation based on the inconvenience suffered by the 
tenants as Aviva owes no contractual duty to them.
Aviva has offed £50 to cover the inconvenience caused, and I agree with our investigator 
that this is insufficient in the circumstances. I also agree with our investigator that £150 is fair 
and reasonable compensation to Mr and Mrs H for the stress and inconvenience to them of 
two missed appointments and the failure to keep them informed about when the engineers 
were going to attend.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay them compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Nigel BremnerOmbudsman