DRN-1605840
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the changes that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) made to its 
overdraft pricing structure. He says the charges applied to his account as a result of this 
change have caused him financial difficulty.
What happened
In 2017 BOS contacted Mr M to say it would be changing the way it charged for overdrafts. 
Mr M says he initially didnt see how these changes would impact him as he feels they were 
presented in a confusing and unclear way. 
During 2018 and early 2019 Mr M contacted BOS several times to say he wanted the 
charges stopped. BOS took some steps to help but Mr M did not feel it had done enough 
and so raised a complaint with BOS. BOS didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the charges 
had been applied fairly. BOS did though acknowledge that it could have given Mr M different 
advice about how he could potentially avoid charges when he first contacted it in 2018. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and concluded that BOS hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
amounts BOS charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs 
of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial 
decision. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about how the new charging structure was explained to him. 
And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as part of its 2018 and 2019 High cost credit: 
overdrafts review, did go on to conclude that APR interest rates were the simplest and most 
transparent way of displaying the cost of an overdraft  especially in terms of comparing the 
cost between banks and to other forms of credit. But the new rules which followed the review 
only came into force in April 2020. A requirement for a bank to display the APR of an 
overdraft wasnt in place prior to this and the new requirement wasnt retrospective either. So 
I dont think the way BOS set out its charging structure in 2017 meant that it did something 
wrong at that time.
So while I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy at the change in BOSs overdraft charging 
structure, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at BOSs charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it implemented these changes unfairly. For 
example, in circumstances where he was in financial difficulty and it took no steps to mitigate 
the effects of the proposed changes and this compounded his difficulties. 
So Ive considered whether BOS treated Mr M fairly and reasonably when it implemented 
these changes on his overdraft. And having thought about everything, I dont think that BOS 
did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Mr M first contacted BOS in May 2018 to say he was unhappy with the charges that were 
being applied. And it appears that at that time BOS supressed the charges on his account 
for a short time to give him some breathing space. BOS also offered to look at a repayment 
plan to help Mr M bring down his overdraft. Mr M then contacted BOS again in August 2018, 
after the charges started to again be applied to his account, BOS agreed to supress the 
charges for another month, and again offered to look into agreeing a repayment plan for the 
overdraft, but Mr M explained that he was awaiting a large credit to his account. Shortly 
afterwards Mr M was able to repay most of the overdrawn balance of his account. 
I appreciate that BOS have said they could have given Mr M some different advice  about 
opening a different kind of account which would have charged differently for his overdraft  
in 2018, but there was no guarantee that if Mr M had been told about that account he would 
have been eligible to open it or eligible for the level of overdraft he would have needed to 
clear the overdrawn balance on his existing current account. So I dont think I can fairly say 
that Mr M lost out because BOS didnt tell him about that account in 2018.
Mr M then contacted BOS again in June 2019, he explained that changes in his personal 
circumstances meant that the charges were affecting him even more negatively than before. 
BOS discussed Mr Ms income and expenditure with him and explained that the only way 
they would be able to agree an affordable repayment plan for him would be to default the 
account. Mr M didnt want to agree a repayment plan that might negatively affect his credit 
file, so BOS left it up to him to contact their Money Management Team if he wanted further 
advice. Shortly afterwards Mr M was able to repay the full overdrawn balance of his account 
after receiving a large credit. 
I think that BOS took appropriate steps to try to help Mr M in 2018 and 2019. And looking at 
Mr Ms statements from before then, I also dont think there was anything that should have 
suggested to BOS that Mr M was in financial difficulties and needed help. I accept that Mr M 
had a large overdraft limit which he was using regularly. And that this in itself could be 
considered a sign of potential difficulty. But Im mindful here that regular large credits were 
going into this account from multiple sources and that Mr M was able to repay most of, or all 
of, the overdraft on several occasions. 
In these circumstances, I cant reasonably reach the conclusion that the overdraft had 
become demonstrably unsustainable for Mr M. So I dont think it would have been fair, 
reasonable or proportionate for BOS to have taken corrective action against Mr Ms wishes 
at that stage. And any corrective action would likely have included removing the facility and 
recording a default or other adverse information, as that would be a consequence of 
permanently freezing the interest, fees and charges. I can see that BOS has now taken 
steps to default Mr Ms account after it became clear that Mr M was no longer able to service 
his overdraft as he had previously, and that seems reasonable in the current circumstances. 
Overall bearing in mind all of the circumstances, I dont think that BOS did anything wrong 
when changing its overdraft pricing structure and I dont think that it treated Mr M unfairly when implementing the changes on his overdraft either. So it follows that Im not upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman