DRN-3370021
The complaint
Mr S complains Pi Financial Limited trading as Alterno Financial failed to notice his pension 
savings had been de-linked from a managed investment portfolio, causing him a financial 
loss. And hes unhappy with their customer service once theyd been made aware of the 
delinking. 
Alterno is an appointed representative of Pi Financial Limited (Pi) so for ease of reading Ill 
mainly refer to Pi throughout the decision.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr Ss financial adviser, Mr D of Sovereign Private Clients (Sovereign) 
arranged the transfer of two pension plans valued at around £228,000 to a pre-retirement 
pension plan with provider A invested in the Brewin Dolphin Growth Managed Service 
Portfolio (BD). Mr S paid an initial fee to Sovereign and agreed to an ongoing adviser 
charge of 0.8% plus a managed portfolio charge of 0.36% both paid monthly. 
In March 2018 Sovereign became Alterno (Pi) by way of a novation agreement and Mr D 
continued to act as Mr Ss adviser. Until January 2018 Mr Ss BD portfolio appeared to be 
actively managed with assets being bought and sold. From February 2018 assets in the BD 
portfolio appeared to be just sold. And in June 2018 Mr S noticed no further activity in his BD 
portfolio, so the active management of his pension effectively ceased, and his portfolio 
hadnt been rebalanced. Yet he was still being charged management fees by Pi.
In March 2019 Mr D of Pi decided to transfer a number of clients, including Mr S, to another 
firm which Ill refer to as IFP and he was given a new financial adviser. In May 2019 the 
new adviser reviewed Mr Ss plan with A and discovered it had been de-linked from the BD 
managed portfolio. 
Mr S complained to Mr D of Pi about the loss of growth while his fund wasnt being actively 
managed. In June 2019 Mr D told Mr S hed found out from A the delinking was a known 
issue where there had been a novation, so when Mr S became a client of Pi his fund was 
delinked from the BD model. Mr D said Mr S should direct his complaint to A. As the problem 
occurred prior to the transfer of business to IFP Mr Ss new advisor couldnt help, but Mr S 
continued to pay management fees to both A and Pi despite his funds no longer being 
actively managed. To resolve the complaint Mr S would like his plan re-linked to the BD 
managed portfolio with any investment loss reinstated, plus a refund of the management 
fees hes paid for 12-14 months while his plan wasnt being actively managed. 
Pi said Mr D was no longer able to pursue the problem on Mr Ss behalf now he (Mr S) was 
no longer Pis client. It maintained A was responsible for the delinking and so should make 
up Mr Ss investment loss. But Pi agreed Mr S had received no annual review in 2018. So it 
offered Mr S a refund of fees rounded up to £1,800. This was calculated as 0.80% of the 
value of his plan in January 2019 prior to the transfer to IFP which was just under £224,000. 
Mr S didnt think this reflected the extent of his loss so in August 2019 he brought his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and set out how he 
thought it should be put right. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2022 as Id come to the same 
outcome as the investigator but wanted to clarify the redress. 
My provisional findings 
I made the following findings (in summary)
Pi was originally told by A in 2019 that the de-linking of Mr Ss policy was as a result 
of a known technical issue when theres been a novation. 
But A then clarified that Mr Ss policy being delinked to the DB portfolio and no longer 
being actively managed or rebalanced arose from the novation (of Sovereign to 
Alterno/Pi). A explained it as follows: 
The [BD] model was delinked from the clients account when his previous adviser 
moved firms. The model in question is an external one so the FA would need to get 
permission from [BD] to use their model when he moved firms.
The reason we deconstruct after a change of agent is because we do not know if the 
new adviser has access to that model portfolio. If we did not deconstruct and the new 
FA did not have access to the model, this would cause numerous issues for the new 
adviser like not being able to trade or even see how much money is even on the 
policy.
We do not inform the new agent of the deconstruction as we would expect they will 
review the clients holdings as part of their advice & recommendations to the 
customer when they move firms.
In Mr Ss case the adviser Mr D hadnt moved firms. His firm Sovereign effectively 
changed its name and was novated to Alterno, which became an appointed 
representative of Pi. But the process from As point of view was Sovereign had been 
granted access to its BD managed portfolio, but they had no way of knowing if 
Alterno/Pi had the same permission. A didnt have the authority to grant that 
permission on behalf of BD.
I accepted Mr D may not have been aware of the implications of the novation, but he 
remained Mr Ss financial adviser. So I thought it was reasonable to expect him to 
have checked Mr S wasnt disadvantaged. Mr S himself noticed an impact on his 
portfolio from February 2018, and that in June 2018 it was no longer being actively 
managed. And while Mr S noticed there was a problem, as far as I could see Pi had 
taken no steps to mitigate Mr Ss investment loss during this period. 
It wasnt Mr Ss choice to move from Pi to IFP, he only found out after it had 
happened, and he understood the decision was taken by Mr D of Pi himself. It wasnt 
clear if IFP has access to the BD managed portfolio, but I thought Mr S was in his 
current situation as a result of the actions of Pi. So I didnt think it was sufficient of Pi 
to simply refund the management fees of £1,800 due to Mr S not receiving an annual 
review in 2018. Instead I said Pi should pay Mr S redress so that he isnt financially disadvantaged by 
the novation and the subsequent delinking of his pension plan to the investment 
portfolio selected for him by Mr D prior to Mr S becoming a client of Pi. I said I dont 
have the power to re-link Mr Ss policy with to the BD portfolio, and Mr S is no longer 
a client of Pi, so it cant do that either. 
So when calculating the redress I assumed a period of three months to be sufficient 
time for Mr Ss new adviser to arrange an alternative suitable investment for Mr S if 
he doesnt have the necessary permissions to access the BD managed portfolio. 
And I set out what Pi needed to do to put things right.
Responses to the provisional decision.
Pi didnt respond.
Mr S responded making a number of points (in summary):
He confirmed hes a basic rate tax-payer;
The pension plans invested with A are the total of his defined contribution plans 
earned with a number of employers over his working life;
In 2017 he paid a charge of around £8.6k to transfer from another provider to A 
specifically to invest in the BD fund, so he thinks some of that charge should be 
refunded;
He hasnt received the actively managed service he signed up for;
The situation has caused a great deal of stress;
Mr D shouldve investigated the consequences of the rebranding from Sovereign to 
Alterno;
He wasnt given a choice about the transfer to IFP, and he wondered if this was done 
to avoid the consequences of the rebranding; 
IFP has taken no action concerning his plan with A and it remains delinked from the 
BD portfolio; 
It was difficult to contact Mr D who was his sole contact at Pi;
He wanted to know who will carry out the redress calculations;
He would like the comfort of an actively managed portfolio in line with what he signed 
up for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration and worry the situation has caused to Mr D, particularly that his 
funds have been unmanaged during a time of market turmoil. Which is why I upheld the 
complaint, and decided Pi should pay redress. 
The redress is based on an end-date of August 2019 as I still think three months is sufficient 
time for Mr Ss new adviser to have recommended an alternative investment portfolio, if its 
not possible to link to the BD portfolio. 
I also awarded £300 specifically for the worry and inconvenience experienced by Mr S. I appreciate it wasnt Mr Ss choice to become a client of IFP in March 2019, this was a 
decision taken by Alterno/Pi. But if Mr S is unhappy with the service hes received from his 
new adviser with IFP, including that his funds have remained un-managed he can complain 
about that to IFP. I dont know whether IFP has access to the BD portfolio, but it might have 
other suitable alternatives so that Mr Ss portfolio is being actively managed. This isnt 
something I can address in this decision against Pi. I dont agree Mr S was prevented from 
raising concerns with IFP while his complaint against Pi was being investigated by this 
service. And I think its reasonable for Mr S to have taken steps to mitigate his loss by 
ensuring his funds are being actively managed even if its no longer possible to for them to 
be linked to the BD portfolio he originally selected. 
Mr Ss complaint wasnt about the transfer of funds from his previous provider to Pi. Its 
about something which happened after the transfer had taken place, and which couldnt 
have been reasonably foreseen at the time. So Im not going to require Pi to refund a 
proportion of the initial transfer charge.  
But as Pi hasnt objected to the outcome or made any comments, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusion reached in the provisional decision. So I uphold the complaint and 
require Pi Financial Limited to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably now be in if 
his policy remained invested and rebalanced in line with the BD managed portfolio.
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S' circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Pi must:
Calculate the value of Mr S's investment as if it had remained invested in the BD 
managed portfolio as shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr S has confirmed hes a currently a basic rate taxpayer so its reasonable to 
assume hell also be one at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset he experienced while his portfolio was 
delinked.
Repay the advisers fees (which Pi has calculated as £1,800) together with simple 
interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If 
the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference 
between the actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with 
interest. I havent required a refund of the managed portfolio fee of 0.36% as this 
would be payable had Mr Ss policy not been delinked. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been deducted. Pi should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Avivas 
Brewin 
Dolphin 
Managed 
PortfolioStill exists 
and liquidAvivas 
Brewin Dolphin 
Managed 
PortfolioDate of 
novation 
(March 
2018)August 2019 
- three 
months after 
Mr Ss new 
advisor 
discovered 
the plan had 
been 
delinked 8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual value of the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it remained 
actively managed within the benchmark investment. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:Mr S wanted to remain in the BD managed portfolio post novation to Pi.
There is no need to compare to another benchmark fund in line with Mr Ss attitude 
to risk as the BD investment still exists, but Mr Ss policy has been de-linked from it. 
Ive chosen the end date of August 2019 as I think three months after discovering 
his plan was delinked is sufficient for Mr Ss new advisor to have arranged an 
alternative investment for him if he doesnt have the relevant permissions to access 
the BD managed portfolio. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Pi Financial Limited trading as Alterno Financial should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman