DRN-3752732
The complaint
Miss A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund an unauthorised payment.
What happened
Miss A had a total of £3,025 withdrawn from her account, and says she didnt authorise this. 
Miss A said Barclays hadnt carried out any checks before allowing the withdrawals.
Miss A raised a dispute with Barclays, then a complaint, but it didnt refund the payments. 
Barclays said the joint account holder had withdrawn the money.
Miss A brought her complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought the 
joint party on the account had likely made the withdrawal.
The investigator could see the card and personal identification number (PIN) for the joint 
party had been used. The investigator also saw a calendar to show whoever had taken the 
money specifically requested £50 notes, and thought it would be unlikely a fraudster would 
do this.
The investigator couldnt see any evidence of third party involvement. Since the investigator 
thought one of the parties on the account had authorised the payment, Barclays was fair in 
holding Miss A liable for the disputed transactions.
Miss A disagreed with the investigator and said the other party didnt authorise the 
withdrawal. Miss A said shed seen no evidence of the checks Barclays did and thought 
Barclays should provide CCTV.
The investigator didnt think Miss As comments changed the outcome. The investigator said 
they couldnt share the information theyd seen as it belonged to the other party on the 
account, and only Miss A had consented to our service investigating.
The investigator also thought CCTV wouldnt prove the other party hadnt authorised the 
withdrawal. Miss A asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a general rule, its fair for Barclays to hold customers liable for payments where the 
evidence suggests they authorised them  or, in this case, a joint party authorised them.
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays has provided, and Im satisfied the withdrawals were 
carried out using the other account holders physical card and PIN. I think Barclays did 
enough checks to ensure these withdrawals were authorised.
The £3,025 was withdrawn in two transactions, £3,000 and £25. The withdrawals didnt 
empty Miss As account, there was still over £2,000 left in the account.
Ive also seen the records to show £50 notes were pre-ordered for the £3,000 withdrawal. I 
think its very unlikely a fraudster would call ahead and order specific notes. I also think its 
unlikely a fraudster would withdraw less money than was in the account at the time.
The £3,000 withdrawal was made first, then £25. It would seem odd that a fraudster, with full 
access to the account, would leave over £2,000. Theyd already made one successful 
withdrawal, I think if this was a random third party theyd have taken more than £25 on the 
second withdrawal.
Miss A has said shes seen no evidence of the withdrawals being authorised. As the 
investigator pointed out, this evidence shows the joint partys card details and signature. 
The investigator asked Miss A to get the joint party to sign our complaint form, to release this 
information, but to date this hasnt been done.
And I dont think CCTV footage would prove the withdrawals were unauthorised. Since the 
physical card and PIN were used, I think the payment was authorised. If the CCTV showed 
someone else making the payment, Id still say the withdrawals were authorised.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the other account holder didnt authorise these 
withdrawals. And Ive seen more persuasive evidence to suggest they did. Because of this, I 
think its fair for Barclays to continue to hold Miss A liable for these withdrawals, I dont think 
Barclays needs to refund the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman