DRN-3501895
The complaint
Mr O complains that Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd mis-sold him an income protection 
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2014, Mr O met with Wesleyans adviser, who carried out a financial review with Mr 
O. This review established that Mr O had a need for income protection in the event he 
became incapacitated. 
Based on the financial review, the adviser recommended that Mr O should take out a 
Friends Life Income Protection Cover policy. The policy would be in force until Mr O reached 
the age of 65 years; had a deferred period of 26 weeks and attracted a monthly premium of 
£46.52. The policy would provide Mr O with a monthly benefit of £1000 if he became 
incapacitated and was unfit to work in his own occupation as a self-employed professional. 
Mr O accepted the advisers recommendations and cover under the policy began in May 
2014. 
In 2021, Mr O complained about the sale of the policy. Mr O said the policy wasnt right for 
him. Thats because his self-employed income fluctuated and his earnings had fallen 
significantly as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Wesleyan didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold to Mr O. It considered that based on 
the information set out in the financial review and the advisers recommendation letter, the 
policy had been suitable for Mr O. It also added that Mr O had had a review with another of 
its advisers in 2016 and had been happy with the cover he already held.
Mr O was unhappy with Wesleyans stance and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Wesleyan had treated Mr O unfairly. Based on the available 
evidence, she was satisfied that the advice Mr O had been given was broadly suitable and in 
line with his demands and needs. 
Mr O disagreed. Hed noted that the paperwork from the time of sale referred to a salary. But 
as a self-employed professional, hed never had a salary. Hed spoken to a staff member of 
the policy insurer who he said had told him that the policy wasnt suitable for him or for 
anyone whose income fluctuates. And he also felt there was no capacity to amend the policy 
benefit up or down according to his annual profits.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr O, I dont think Wesleyan has done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Wesleyans adviser recommended that Mr O should take out the 
income protection policy. This means they needed to check it was suitable for Mr Os needs. 
And they also needed to provide him with enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
to decide if the policy was right for him. So Ill explore whether I consider Wesleyan met 
these obligations, based on the available evidence and what I think is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
First, Ive looked carefully at both case notes and a data capture form from the meeting that 
the adviser had with Mr O in April 2014. It seems this was an in-person meeting to establish 
Mr Os financial needs. 
In brief, the case notes and data capture form set out Mr Os personal details. The notes 
state that he was self-employed, his role; and set out his income, as well as existing sick-pay 
provisions. Mr Os mortgage details are specified as well as the fact that he wanted specific 
advice about protection. It was noted that Mr O had no existing sick pay provisions, but that 
given the nature of his work, he often received payment some months after he carried out 
the work. So Mr O felt that a six-month deferred period would be appropriate. 
The notes show that Mr O had a monthly earned income of £1666.67 and total annual 
income of £20,000. I appreciate there is some reference to Mr Os salary in the case notes, 
but this was a pre-populated box. And based on all Ive seen; Im satisfied that the adviser 
was aware of Mr Os employment status and cover was recommended on the basis of Mr O 
being self-employed with an annual income of £20,000. Its recorded that Mr O preferred a 
policy with guaranteed rates and maximum benefits. The maximum monthly benefit was 
calculated to be £1000. 
Following the review, the adviser sent Mr O a recommendation or reasons-why letter, 
explaining why he felt the Friends Life policy met his needs. So Ive carefully considered this. 
The adviser stated that they had recommended the policy from Wesleyans panel as it was 
offering the highest level of benefit based on Mr Os income and also because it provided an 
own occupation definition, which had been important to Mr O. The letter also set out the 
monthly premium; monthly benefit level; deferred period and the policy term. 
The reasons-why letter also explained that the adviser could only give advice based on 
information provided in relation to Mr Os current circumstances. So it stated:
It is therefore important that you keep us informed of any changes to your circumstances to 
make sure that your cover remains appropriate to your needs.
And following the meeting, the adviser also produced a financial plan, which appears to have 
been sent to Mr O. This says: This financial plan has been constructed from the information 
you supplied to me at our recent meeting. On the first page of the plan, some of Mr Os 
personal details were set out. These included Mr Os self-employed role and that his total 
income was £20,000. The plan recorded that Mr O needed income protection as an urgent 
priority.
The insurer produced a quotation for Mr Os policy, which set out the key cover terms before 
Mr O chose to go ahead with the policy.
In my view, given both the data capture form and case notes from the meeting state that Mr 
O had an annual income of £20,000, it seems more likely than not that Mr O told the adviser 
that this was his annual income. While I appreciate Mr O says he told the adviser that his 
income had large variances and I accept this is possible, it seems likely that he was sent a 
copy of the financial plan. So if his recorded income didnt match what hed told the adviser, I think its more likely than not that hed have raised this at the time. And I can see that the 
adviser did record that Mr O often waited some months for payment, given the nature of his 
job, suggesting that a discussion had taken place around Mr Os needs and total income. 
This means I think, on balance, the adviser based his recommendation on income details 
hed been given by Mr O.
The reasons why letter Mr O saw clearly set out the available benefits under the policy. And 
based on all Ive seen, I find the adviser gave Mr O clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the product he recommended and the reasons why hed done so.
Ive carefully considered the available evidence to decide whether Im satisfied the advisers 
recommendation was suitable. Its clear from both the case notes, data capture form and the 
reasons-why letter that Mr O didnt have enough income to cover his outgoings if he became 
incapacitated. And he indicated that he wanted income protection. So I think it was 
reasonable for the adviser to recognise a gap in Mr Os financial situation and to recommend 
a policy which would fill it.  
I can see from the data capture form and case notes that Mr O wouldnt receive any sick pay 
if he became incapacitated. At first glance, this appears at odds with a deferred period of 26-
weeks. However, the adviser made specific reference to this in his notes and in the reasons-
why letter and stated that Mr O had been confident he could meet any shortfall from 
personal resources during the first six months of any incapacity. On this basis then, it seems 
that the overall deferred period was broadly suitable for Mr O.
And its clear that the recommendation the adviser made was in line with Mr Os budget at 
the time. Whilst the adviser noted that he hadnt recommended the cheapest possible 
income protection product, it appears that this was because Mr O wanted a higher level of 
monthly benefit and guaranteed premiums. The Friends Life policy provided Mr O with both 
of these options and therefore appears to be in line with his demands and needs.
Mr O has suggested that there was no opportunity to vary the monthly benefit if his income 
fluctuated. However, the insurer told us and Mr O that the monthly benefit could be 
decreased to meet his needs and that indexation could be removed from his plan. If he 
wanted to increase the monthly benefit at a later date, this was possible if Mr O met certain 
policy terms and conditions. I dont agree then that the policy didnt offer Mr O the chance to 
amend the benefit if his income fluctuated.
Its clear that Mr Os income did fluctuate over the years  and that Covid-19 had a real 
impact on his earnings. So I understand that the benefit level later may have not been right 
for his needs. But Wesleyans adviser could only give advice based on the information 
available at the time the policy was sold. Id add too that I can see that Mr O did undergo a 
further review with Wesleyan in 2015, when his income had increased by around £2000 and 
he met with another Wesleyan adviser in April 2016, when a pension investment was 
recommended. At this point, it appears Mr O had said that his profitability had increased. 
And theres no suggestion that he felt then that the income protection recommendation had 
been inappropriate.
Overall, while its clear Mr O feels strongly about the advice he was given, I find that the 
recommendation was broadly suitable for his identified needs. This means Im not directing 
Wesleyan to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman