DRN-4060498
The complaint
Mr S complains that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) has unfairly declined his pet insurance 
claim. Any reference to HDI in this decision includes its respective agents unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise
what Ive found to be the key points.
At the end of October 2021 Mr S rehomed a dog from abroad who Ill call D. Shortly 
after arriving in the country D began suffering from diarrhoea and gastrointestinal 
problems. Several veterinary examinations of D and a referral to a specialist resulted 
in a diagnosis. Mr S made a claim on his HDI pet insurance policy for the costs 
incurred.
HDI initially paid part of the claim (£472.28) but declined further claims totalling 
£4,216.31. It said this was because Ds vets notes showed he most likely arrived in 
the country with the illness. It said that under the policy the condition being claimed 
for would therefore be considered as pre-existing and not covered.
Mr S disagreed and provided a letter from his vet which said D began displaying 
signs (of diarrhoea) at the end of October 2021 but did not have a history of this prior 
to import. But HDI said that even if it accepted D didnt have symptoms prior to 
arriving in the UK, the vet notes still supported that Ds symptoms were present from 
the start of Mr Ss ownership of him. And as the policy doesnt cover illnesses that 
occur within the first 14 days, the claim still wouldnt be covered.
HDI also said that as part of the claim had been paid to Mr S in error, he would need 
to repay this to HDI in full. It did however acknowledge that this mistake would cause 
Mr S inconvenience and that there were delays in its handling of his claim. So it 
offered £100 compensation in recognition of this.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint about the matter. She noted that the policy 
didnt cover Mr S for any illness that occurs within 14 days of the policy start date. 
But Mr Ss policy started 14 days prior to Ds arrival in the country and his vets had 
confirmed his symptoms didnt start until shortly after his import. 
Our investigator was therefore satisfied the illness Mr S was claiming for occurred 
outside the 14-day period in question. As a result, she said HDI should retract its 
demand for Mr S to return the settled claim amount and settle the outstanding claim 
amount in full along with the £100 compensation already offered.
HDI didnt accept the investigators findings. It said the policy didnt effectively start on 
the date Mr S took it out, because a general condition of the policy is that the 
policyholder has to be the owner of the pet. 
Mr S said he didnt become Ds owner until he arrived in the country and so the policy 
effectively started then. It said that as Ds symptoms occurred within 14 days of that 
date, the claim wasnt covered. 
HDI asked for an Ombudsman to review the case, so the complaint was passed to 
me to make to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in March 2023. Ive included part of what I said 
below:
Mr Ss policy covers him for vet fees. But like most policies of this nature, the cover 
available is subject to certain terms, conditions, exclusions and limitations as set out 
in the relevant policy documents.
The general conditions of Mr Ss cover are set out on page 19 of his policy booklet, 
one of which states that You must be the owner of the pet and your pet must be a 
minimum of eight weeks old when your policy starts.
From what Ive seen, Mr S wasnt the owner of D when the policy started in this case. 
By his own admission, he became Ds owner on the date D arrived in the UK  which 
was a few days before the end of October 2021.
Prior to Ds arrival, Mr S arguably had no insurable interest under his HDI policy as 
he did not own or have possession of D. With that and the policy conditions in mind I 
think its reasonable in this case for HDI to treat the policy as if it started on the date 
D arrived in the UK rather than the date Mr S took the policy out.
Mr Ss policy doesnt cover D for Any illness that occurs within the first 14 days of 
the policy commencement date. So on the face of it, if Ds illness started within 14 
days of his arrival in the UK, the claim isnt covered.
There has been some back and forth and contradiction regarding this point. But as of 
now, its my understanding that HDI say Ds symptoms started in October 2021 and 
so the claim still isnt covered. But Mr S says Ds symptoms started at the time he 
first took D to the vets in late November, which was outside the relevant 14-day 
period and so the claim should be paid. Ive carefully considered the information and 
evidence Ive seen so far in relation to this.
Mr Ss vet notes initially stated that D had been suffering with chronic diarrhoea since 
his rehome from abroad. This was initially interpreted by HDI to mean that D had 
symptoms on arrival to the UK and the claim was declined. Mr S therefore contacted 
his vets to help him dispute this.
Ive seen an email from Mr S to his vets from June 2022 where he says His 
(meaning D) policy started the day he arrived in the UK and it was only a few days 
after that he became ill. Mr Ss vets then followed up with an email statement 
confirming its opinion that there was no history of symptoms prior to import and that 
Ds signs date only from October 2021. So at that point Im satisfied that both Mr S 
and his vets clearly confirm in writing that Ds symptoms started in October 2021.
Ive then looked at the complaint Mr S brought to this service, and this is where the 
dates become contradictory. One part of his submission says Ds symptoms started 
several weeks after he arrived in the UK, but then in another part Mr S says that it 
was only at the end of October that D started showing signs.
I cant know for certain when Ds symptoms started in this case. So I have to base 
my decision on what I think is most likely on balance of the available information Ive 
seen so far. And Im currently more persuaded that Ds symptoms most likely started 
at the end of October 2021. This was the initial timing Mr S gave to HDI and his vets 
issued a statement supporting this.
Mr S has since changed his position regarding this, citing that he only took D to the 
vets in late November and that had D been suffering from chronic diarrhoea for several weeks before that, hed have gone to his vet much sooner. So he thinks this 
supports the fact that Ds symptoms started a few days before he visited the vet.
But that doesnt explain why Mr S (and his vet) gave a different date to HDI and to an 
extent this Service as set out above. From what Ive seen, the November date has 
been presented by Mr S after HDI raised the 14-day exclusion and without 
explanation of this change, so is less persuasive to me in this case.
It follows on balance of what Ive seen so far, Im still more persuaded by Mr Ss 
initial answer that Ds symptoms started at the end of October 2021. And as this is 
around the same time Mr Ss policy started, Im satisfied Ds illness started within 14 
days of the policy commencing and so HDI has fairly declined the claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. I therefore dont intend to direct HDI to pay out 
anything further on this claim.
Im aware HDI has already paid part of the claim to Mr S at an amount of £472.28 
which its now asked him to pay back. But its my understanding that much of the 
information HDI has since relied on to decline Mr Ss claim was available at the time 
it approved this amount. Its not Mr Ss fault that it made what it says was an error in 
its review of this claim and from what Ive seen, HDI has offered no reasonable 
explanation as to why this occurred.
HDI says its entitled under the policy to seek recovery of these costs from Mr S, but 
for the reasons set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case for it to do so.
HDI has acknowledged there were delays and service failings in its handling of 
Mr Ss claim. I think the £100 already offered is fair to put things right in relation to 
this. HDI says this has already been paid to Mr S.
I gave both parties a chance to respond before issuing my final decision. HDI said it had 
nothing further to add. Ive summarised Mr Ss comments below.
Mr S says his legal ownership of D began on 20 October 2021 which was before D 
arrived in the UK. He says this is evidenced by the date on which his application form 
was formally approved, and by an email from the treasurer of the charity D was 
rehomed from that supports this. Therefore, Mr S disagrees that its reasonable in 
this case for HDI to treat the policy as if it started on the date D arrived in the UK.
Mr S says he has a strong recollection of HDI telling him over the phone that he 
should start the policy 14 days before Ds arrival in the country to ensure he was 
outside the 14-day period when he arrived. He thinks HDI should therefore honour 
the actual policy start date rather than the date he became Ds legal owner. In doing 
so the condition D suffered was outside the 14-day period and so should be covered.
Mr S maintains that Ds condition wasnt pre-existing and says that had D been 
suffering from diarrhoea from his arrival in the UK he would unlikely have survived up 
to the point Mr S took him to the vets in November. 
Mr S says HDIs error in accepting the initial part of his claim led him to trust that any 
further claims relating to the same condition would be covered which is why he 
proceeded with costly investigations with a specialist. Had HDI declined his initial 
claim he says its highly likely hed have sought alternative treatment and therefore 
not incurred the significant financial loss he has.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S submitted detailed comments in response to my provisional decision. Id like to assure 
him that while my findings are summarised to focus on what I deem to be the key points and 
crux of this complaint, I have read and considered what hes said in full before reaching my 
decision. And having done so, my conclusion on this case remains unchanged. I know this 
will be disappointing to Mr S, but Ill explain why.
Mr S says he was told to take the policy out 14 days prior to Ds arrival in the UK to 
ensure cover, so he thinks the policy should reasonably start from that date and 
therefore his claim should be paid in full.
HDI told us it was unable to locate such a call from the information it had, but 
regardless of this, the complaint Im considering in this case is about the claim 
decline. If Mr S has concerns about how the policy was sold this may be something 
he is able to complain about separately if he wishes to do so.  
Mr S says if the policy cannot be deemed to commence on the date it was taken out, 
it should be from the date he became Ds legal owner, which he now says was the 
20 October 2021.
But even if I were to accept this as the reasonable commencement date of the policy 
in the circumstances of this case, (which Im still not persuaded I do on balance of 
the information Ive seen) I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome.
I say this because, Im still more persuaded by what Ive seen, that Ds symptoms 
started at the end of October 2021 for all the reasons already set out in my 
provisional decision. 
To put it simply, if Ds symptoms didnt start, as Mr S now says, until a few days 
before he took D to the vet in mid/late November 2021, I fail to see why he initially 
told his vets, insurers and this service something different. 
Differing start dates are mentioned throughout the evidence Ive seen in this case. 
But Mr Ss response to my provisional decision, in my opinion, doesnt provide me 
with a reasonable explanation as to why these contradictory dates have been given. 
And so, Im still more persuaded by his initial response regarding the start of Ds 
symptoms.
With that in mind, even if I were to accept a policy commencement date of 
20 October 2021, Im still persuaded Ds symptoms most likely started within 14 days 
of this date anyway  the end of October 2021. So, it would still be fair for HDI to 
decline the claim in that scenario under the policy terms and conditions.
Mr S says HDIs error in paying his initial claim led to him believing further claims 
would be paid. He says had HDI declined the initial claim he wouldve sought 
alternative treatment potentially avoiding the significant financial costs hes incurred.
But Ive seen no evidence he couldve found this treatment cheaper or that it would 
have worked or been possible. And I think its unlikely Mr S wouldve left Ds 
condition untreated, so costs most likely would always have been incurred. 
In any case, while HDIs initial pay out on the claim may well have left Mr S hopeful 
any future claims for Ds condition would be covered, there was no guarantee. So 
these and Mr Ss other points dont change my conclusion in the circumstances of 
this case.
It follows I wont be directing HDI to pay out anything further on Mr Ss claim, but I will 
be directing it to honour the claim amount its already paid out and to not seek 
recovery of this from Mr S.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
HDI Global Specialty SE must honour its payment of £472.28 already paid out to Mr S and 
must not seek recovery of this amount from him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman