DRN-1800493
 
The complaint
Mrs S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
Mrs S bought the policy in 1997 in connection with a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs S says she doesn't remember PPI being discussed when she took out her store 
card, and she thinks it could've been added to her account without her 
knowledge. Ive noted everything Mrs S has said. The difficulty I have is that I can't 
be sure what was discussed between Mrs S and AXA when the policy was sold. But I 
note that the store card application form Mrs S signed was completed to show that 
she wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Mrs S took 
out her card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mrs 
S may no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the 
policy was sold. Without anything else to support what Mrs S has told me, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that 
the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs S might have 
had to cover her repayments. But even if AXA had recommended the policy, it 
doesn't look as though it was unsuitable for Mrs S, based on what I've seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs S says she was entitled to employer sick pay, and 
that she had some savings. She also says her father could've helped her if she was 
off work sick. So Mrs S considers she had enough alternative cover without the PPI. 
But the policy would've paid out in addition to Mrs S's employer benefits and would 
do so for longer. Having the policy in place would've meant Mrs S could use her 
employer benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. And it would've meant she didn't need to rely on her family. So I think Mrs S would've had some use for the 
policy, despite her existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs S would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman