DRN-2255866
The complaint
Miss G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt remove a marker from her credit file in May 
2019 when they said they would. She says this has impacted her ability to obtain lending. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Miss G had a missed payment for her HSBC personal loan in February 2019. She 
complained about this as she said shed been given incorrect information about the amount 
owed on the loan which led to the missed payment. HSBC responded to the complaint in 
May 2019 apologising for what happened. They said theyd contacted the relevant 
department to ensure the impact of the missed payment was removed from Miss Gs credit 
file, explaining this could take up to six weeks. HSBC also confirmed the payment 
arrangement that was in place had been removed, as agreed, and they credited the loan 
account with £226.91 (one months payment). 
Miss G contacted our service in December 2019 saying HSBC hadnt removed the marker 
from her credit file and that this was affecting her application for a mortgage. We contacted 
HSBC about this and, after looking in to it, they confirmed there were no arrears reported 
with the credit reference agencies (CRA). But they found that one of the CRAs was still 
reporting an arrangement marker in error. HSBC confirmed the arrangement marker had 
now been removed and offered Miss G £100 compensation.
Miss G didnt accept the compensation. She said HSBCs failure to correct her credit file had 
prevented her from securing her dream home and that she had to move in with her parents 
because of this. She also explained that this had impacted her mental health. Miss G 
suggested a sum of between £5,000 and £10,000 compensation. 
Our investigator considered what Miss G had said but he didnt think HSBC had to do 
anything further. He said he hadnt seen anything from a mortgage provider(s) to confirm the 
arrangement marker (which shouldve been removed sooner than February 2020) was the 
reason for Miss G being declined lending. And as there was other adverse information on 
Miss Gs credit file, he couldnt reasonably conclude the arrangement marker was the sole 
reason for not being able to obtain the mortgage. 
He noted that Miss G had provided two emails from her mortgage adviser to support her 
complaint. But he wasnt persuaded these sufficiently demonstrated HSBC as being 
responsible for the mortgage applications being declined. He explained this was because the 
adviser wrongly referred to the adverse information as a default, not an arrangement marker. 
And that they suggested the default (marker) was still on Miss Gs credit file at the time, 
preventing her application(s) being successful, even though it had been removed several 
months earlier.  So, our investigator didnt think he could fairly ask HSBC to compensate 
Miss G for being unable to obtain her mortgage. And he thought the £100 compensation was 
fair as, upon HSBC becoming aware the marker wasnt removed in December 2019, they 
corrected this in about two months. 
Miss G disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain my reason for my decision, I want to clarify that Im only looking at 
the issue of HBSC failing to remove the arrangement marker from Miss Gs credit file. I 
havent considered, and so wont comment on, how the arrangement marker was first 
reported by HSBC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that the arrangement marker wasnt removed by HSBC, as they said they 
would, in May 2019. I therefore appreciate Miss Gs frustration with whats happened as 
HSBC failed to correct their own mistake. I understand that Miss G considers HSBCs failure 
to remove the arrangement marker at that time prevented her from obtaining a mortgage and 
securing her dream home. Ive given this careful consideration. But, while I know this isnt 
the outcome Miss G is hoping for, I dont think I can fairly direct HSBC to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
For me to hold HSBC responsible, I need to be satisfied  based on the available evidence  
that their error in not removing the arrangement marker is the direct cause for Miss Gs 
difficulty obtaining a mortgage. In support of her complaint, Miss G has provided two emails 
from her financial adviser. These, from May and June 2020 respectively, say:
 
Further to our recent telephone conversation your application has failed the credit 
score and if HSBC were to remove the default from your file your score should be 
sufficient to pass. 
This should allow you to apply for a mortgage.
and;
I can confirm that the default registered has impacted your credit file and score which 
is stopping you securing an Agreement in Principle for a Mortgage facility.
The above emails strongly suggest HSBCs reporting of the marker as being the reason why 
Miss G was unable to apply for a mortgage. That said, the adviser wrongly refers to it as 
being a default. And, while its possible the adviser referred to it as such in a broader 
context, a default would have much greater consequences on a persons ability to secure 
lending than an arrangement marker. Its therefore difficult for me to accept the advisers 
views on the reason why Miss G failed the credit score.
I accept that the arrangement marker wouldve likely had some affect on Miss Gs credit 
score. But, the evidence Miss G has provided shows that her credit score decreased in May 
2019 when HSBC arranged for the adverse information (except for the arrangement marker) 
to be removed. And so, its unclear why it decreased at that time rather than when HSBC 
initially reported the missed loan payment and arrangement marker to the CRAs. 
I also havent seen anything from a mortgage provider to confirm the reason for Miss G 
being declined lending was directly as a result of the arrangement marker. I understand that 
Miss G says she didnt proceed with any hard searches (full applications) as there was a 
high possibility she would be declined and she didnt want to further affect her credit score. Im understanding of Miss Gs reasons for this but, unfortunately, it means that there isnt 
anything from a mortgage provider to support her position.
Furthermore, having reviewed Miss Gs credit file from May 2020, Im aware that there is 
other adverse information reported on it. This therefore also likely affected Miss Gs ability to 
apply for lending. And so, because of this, I cant be sure that HSBCs failure to remove the 
arrangement marker in May 2019 was the main reason for Miss G being unable to obtain her 
desired mortgage.
It follows that I dont think I can fairly direct HSBC to compensate Miss G for any difficulties 
she may have experienced in obtaining a mortgage as a result of the arrangement marker 
not being removed sooner. 
I have however considered whether the £100 compensation offered by HSBC for not 
removing the arrangement marker in May 2019 is fair. And I think its understandable that 
finding out the marker hadnt been removed after being told it would be wouldve been 
concerning to Miss G. So, Im satisfied that she has suffered trouble and upset from what 
happened and which couldve been avoided. 
Ive looked at how HSBC handled the removal of the arrangement marker when they were 
made aware of the problem. Miss G says she raised this issue with HSBC in July 2019 but 
didnt have any success in resolving the matter with them directly. And so, she says she then 
contacted our service in December 2019. Although Ive noted Miss Gs comments here, I 
havent seen anything to show she raised the issue of the arrangement marker not being 
removed before she contacted our service. There is evidence of Miss G contacting HSBC 
about her personal loan in June/July 2020 but it relates to a different complaint. The call 
recordings that are available also dont include any reference to the arrangement marker. 
In the absence of anything to show otherwise, I think its most likely Miss G first raised this 
issue with HSBC and our service in December 2019. And HSBC corrected their mistake by 
arranging for the arrangement marker to be removed in February 2019. Given they had to 
check what was being reported with the CRAs, I dont think this was an unreasonable 
amount of time in these circumstances. And, as Ive said, I havent seen anything to 
sufficiently demonstrate that this arrangement marker prevented Miss G from obtaining a 
mortgage  including during these two months. 
I realise Miss G doesnt think £100 is enough for whats happened and that she says this has 
been detrimental to her health. Id like to reassure her that Ive thought very carefully about 
this but having done so, and for the above reasons, I dont think the compensation offered by 
HSBC is unreasonable. 
I understand the £100 compensation hasnt been paid and so Miss G should contact HSBC 
directly to arrange payment of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman