DRN-3264070
The complaint
Miss W, through a claims management company, (CMC) has complained that Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited (Phoenix) didnt carry out the necessary due diligence when transferring 
her pension plan. Shes said had she been sufficiently warned of the risks its unlikely she 
would have gone through with the transfer.
What happened
Miss Ws CMC has said she was approached in 2011 for a pension review and advised to 
transfer to the Vertu Retirement Benefit Scheme (Vertu scheme) which it has said was 
administered by an unregulated company. It has said Miss W was telephoned directly by a 
representative of the scheme, but Phoenix has stated that it was first approached by a firm 
of financial advisers who provided a letter of authority to act on Miss Ws behalf along with a 
request for transfer information. This was in August/September 2011 and in October 2011 
Phoenix has shown that it sent Miss W the transfer quotation information along with a 
warning that a market value reduction (MVR) would be applied if she transferred the 
pension. It did the same after it received further requests in December 2011 and again in 
March 2012.
The transfer of Miss Ws pension to the Vertu scheme was completed in April 2012.
In 2013, the Vertu scheme was closed to new members and to transfers-in. Professional 
trustees were appointed to the scheme by the sponsoring employer in March 2015 with the 
objective of improving governance of the scheme and the winding up of the scheme was 
triggered on 21 March 2017.
The CMC has said that at the time of the transfer Miss W was a shop worker with no 
experience of financial matters. The CMC feels that given her lack of experience Phoenix 
should have contacted Miss W to ensure she understood the impact of the transfer. And that 
it failed to advise her of the risks and under the Regulators Principles for Businesses (PRIN) 
Phoenix should have communicated with her to get more detailed reasoning for the transfer. 
It has stated there were obvious warning signs that Phoenix didnt act upon such as:
Miss W didnt receive regulated advice.
The transfer was to an occupational pension scheme but Miss W wasnt employed     
    by the sponsoring employers.
The employers were geographically distant from her.
In response to the complaint Phoenix stated it had adhered to its own guidelines in 2012 and 
carried out all relevant due diligence.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was satisfied that given the time of the transfer and the lack of clear and substantive 
guidance for providers to follow Phoenix had done all it could and there was no reason to 
think the scheme was a scam or a fraud at that specific time.
The CMC on behalf of Miss W didnt agree with the assessment.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2020 where I set out why I didnt think the 
complaint could be upheld. And extract is below and forms part of this decision:
What rules or guidance was Phoenix expected to follow at the time of the transfer
At the time Miss W requested the transfer of her pension no specific guidance had been 
issued by The Pensions Regulator (TPR) on how businesses should deal with transfer 
requests. However, there was some emerging knowledge throughout the financial industry of 
pension scams and fraud and there is evidence that the Financial Services Authority (FSA, 
subsequently the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) and other regulatory bodies such as 
TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about the dangers of pension liberation 
schemes
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to schemes 
that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax and/or result in 
cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as a loan. Particular 
concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the fees charged and potential 
investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was working closely with HMRC and 
TPR to find out more information and encouraged affected consumers to contact FSA, 
HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and had 
closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. The 
FSA was involved in this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. The 
warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that encouraged 
people to transfer in order receive cash or access a loan.
Financial Services Authority (FSA) Principles for Businesses
As Miss Ws policy was a personal pension, Phoenix was regulated by the FSA in its 
operation. There have never been any specific FSA/FCA rules on the checks transferring 
providers need to make before someone can transfer from a personal pension but the FCA 
Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out its 
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance 
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension 
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles that firms must adhere to 
and I consider the most relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension 
liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did Phoenix follow the guidance outlined above?The CMC has referred to TPRs scorpion guidance as evidence Phoenix didnt conduct all 
the necessary due diligence on pension liberation. However, the transfer of Miss Ws 
pensions took place in 2012 and the scorpion guidance was released in February 2013. The 
aim of the campaign was to raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide 
guidance on dealing with transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening, 
representing the minimum for what personal pension providers needed to do after that date. 
Several bodies including the FSA were part of this initiative and endorsed the guidance, but 
the FSA didnt issue the guidance itself, so it wasnt set out specifically by reference to firms 
PRIN or Conduct of Business obligations. Nevertheless, it was important guidance which 
represented a step-change in how all businesses were expected to approach pension 
transfers after that point.
Therefore, this guidance would clearly have been relevant had Miss Ws transfer taken place 
after it had been published but as this wasnt around when Miss W requested her transfer 
Phoenix cant be held accountable a to standard not yet introduced.
However, also as noted above, there was some emerging knowledge of pension liberation 
and scams throughout industry when Miss W requested the transfer of her pension, so its 
reasonable that Phoenix would have been aware of the threat and been familiar with TPR 
announcements. I therefore expect Phoenix to have acted accordingly to use its own 
judgement and discretion when handling pension transfer requests at that time as well as 
acting in line with the FCAs Principles for Businesses in all it did.
So these are the points I have considered in my decision, as well as taking account of what 
good industry practice was at the time.
When Miss W transferred her pension, providers would typically check that the receiving 
scheme was registered with HMRC and would only investigate further if it was apparent that 
the transfer was, in some way, suspicious. I know Phoenix checked that the Vertu scheme 
was registered with HMRC as it has provided a copy of the letter/HMRC certificate 
confirming this. This document also shows the Vertu scheme was registered recently to the 
transfer on 17 Feb 2012, which the CMC feels should have been something Phoenix picked 
up on and should have viewed as unusual. However, transferring to a scheme that had only 
just been registered wasnt a widespread concern at the time.
So I dont think this, in isolation, would have necessarily caused Phoenix to have been 
concerned by the transfer request. And I think this conclusion is supported by the activity of 
the regulators in this period. Clearly, the FSA and TPR were becoming increasingly 
concerned about liberation schemes in the years prior to Miss Ws transfer. However, their 
response was primarily aimed at closing liberation schemes and raising consumer 
awareness about cold calls, accessing pension funds early, overseas investments and 
scams. Important though this activity was, it doesnt point to transferring to a recently 
registered scheme as particularly being something transferring schemes needed to be 
mindful of when dealing with a transfer request.
The fact that the scheme address was geographically far away from where Miss W lived is 
also something the CMC feels Phoenix should have questioned. And if this was after the 
scorpion guidance had been released, I would have agreed with the CMC. But again, this 
doesnt seem to have been something TPR had raised as an issue at this time so theres no 
reason why it would be a concern to Phoenix. In many companies with a regional presence 
as well as a head office, the employers main address may be far from where some 
employees live.
Also, the scheme was described as an occupational pension scheme established under an 
irrevocable trust by the employer for the benefits of its members including officers, employees of the company and their family. This is quite a wide description of those who 
could be a part of this scheme  and is permitted by the regulations, providing the original 
purpose of the scheme first and foremost was to admit employees of the sponsoring 
employer. So again, it isnt unreasonable that Phoenix, given the time we are talking about, 
didnt see any reasons to be concerned with this.
Turning now to the information Phoenix sent out to Miss W from the point of the first 
information request from the financial advisers. These letters provided her with information 
about her policy. And specifically, the March 2012 letter sent directly to her states before 
transferring you should consider very carefully whether this is the right choice. It also set out 
in the following pages of this letter things to consider before transferring and provided the 
details of its customer contact centre if she had any queries. There was also a leaflet 
included in this which stated that as transferring the pension is a major decision getting 
advice is encouraged. And while Phoenix explained it couldnt give her advice it did explain it 
could answer any questions she had and also provided details of how Miss W could find an 
IFA in her area.
Taking all of this into account as well as the time the transfer request was made, I think 
Phoenix provided Miss W with opportunities to check whether she was happy with the risks 
involved in this transfer which she didnt take up. And while I accept there was no mention of 
any potential fraud involved, given this was before regulators issued any specific guidance to 
transferring schemes on the subject, I dont think this was a failing on Phoenixs part.
Its also important to note that the Transfer Discharge form was signed and dated by Miss W 
and she ticked the box which said she had an adviser etc. The CMC has said she was 
referring to the person who she says had contacted her from the Vertu scheme and who was 
unregulated. However, as she hadnt told Phoenix this and she ticked the box about the 
adviser, I cant fairly say Phoenix would think there was anything different happening  again 
against the backdrop of there being no formalised guidance at that point in time.
The FSA Principles for Businesses
While the CMC has said Phoenix didnt adhere to the FSA principles when it processed 
Miss Ws transfer Im satisfied the principles cant be interpreted as meaning Phoenix should 
have investigated every transfer to the level of detail that the CMC suggests as a matter of
course. Even when the regulators first introduced guidance in this area  the scorpion 
guidance they didnt require providers to conduct the same level of exhaustive enquiries on 
every transfer whether warning signs were present or not. So I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to have expected Phoenix to be automatically suspicious of all transfers 
when the regulators, after considering the issue carefully, evidently didnt think that was 
necessary later on.
Furthermore, whether I can fairly say these rules should have led Phoenix to carry out a 
specific investigation on the transfer, to protect Miss W from possible liberation, largely 
depends on how likely it was viewed at the time that any particular transfer was at risk of this 
activity. I say this because there was always the risk of legitimate transfers being caught up 
in indiscriminate enquiries. And as already mentioned above at this stage, the regulators and 
HMRCs own position was that they were still taking steps to find out more about the 
problem.
So, on balance, I dont agree its reasonable to give the FSA principles and rules the context 
of industry intelligence that was subsequently compiled and circulated after Miss W 
transferred. TPR seems to have eventually decided that regulators and other agencies 
couldnt tackle the issue alone  and further intervention by pension providers was 
necessary. But that wasnt the position at the time of Miss Ws transfer. Therefore, I am of the view that Phoenix adhered to and met the FSA s Principles for Businesses in dealing 
with Miss W. I am satisfied it provided Miss W with the information she needed and did make 
it clear that transferring was an important decision which she should be advised about. And
I am satisfied the information was clear and easy to understand. I dont think Phoenix acted 
unfairly or unreasonably on this occasion by proceeding with the transfer in the absence of 
any obvious signs of liberation in Miss Ws request, or from industry intelligence it received.
Overall therefore while I can understand the difficult position Miss W has now found herself 
in, at the time of her pension transfer the issues raised by her CMC werent considered 
enough of a cause for concern for providers across the board. This was, after all, a rapidly 
emerging issue. So individual providers, who would only have seen a small proportion of all 
activity in this area, wouldnt necessarily have had a comprehensive enough view of pension 
liberation schemes to have appreciated what the potential risk factors were before the 
scorpion guidance  which did begin to catalogue these risk factors  was issued. Of course, 
some providers may have had an awareness of specific liberation risks ahead of the 
scorpion guidance because they may, for example, have received a sudden increase in 
transfer requests to a previously unknown scheme. But I havent seen anything that makes 
me think Phoenix had, or should reasonably have had, this sort of awareness in Miss Ws 
case.
It therefore follows from the above that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. I recognise how 
disappointing this will be for Misss W but for the reasons given above, Im satisfied Phoenix 
acted in line with what was required of it at the time.
No comments were made to my provisional findings by Phoenix. But Miss W responded to 
say she accepted them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further comments to my provisional decision, I have no reason 
to depart from those findings.
For the reasons set out above I am satisfied that Phoenix acted in line with what it was 
required to do at the time Miss W requested the transfer of her pension, so the complaint 
cant be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman