DRN-3284763
The complaint
Mr J complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax mis-sold him a Guaranteed Investment Plan.
What happened
Mr J, accompanied by his brother who has enduring Power of Attorney for Mr J (and is 
acting for Mr J in this complaint), received advice from Halifax in 2005. He invested £30,000 
into a Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP). The plan was designed to be held for at least five 
years and provided a capital guarantee on the end date.
In 2009 the GIP was surrendered. Halifax alerted Mr J to some changes to the underlying 
investments that took place in 2009 and had provided some redress. Recently, Mr J 
complains about the suitability of the GIP. His CMC says that it was too risky.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he felt Mr Js brother, 
who had power of attorney, sufficiently understood the information and advice Halifax gave. 
He said that based on Mr Js circumstances, and the objective to achieve potentially higher 
growth than deposit accounts, the advice wasnt unsuitable. 
Mr Js CMC disagreed. In summary it said that as the capital guarantee aspect was so 
important to Mr J, he shouldnt have been advised to take any risk with the growth of his 
funds. It provided information about how GIPs in general performed in relation to deposit 
accounts and felt the advice shouldve been different. It asked for an Ombudsman to reach a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the information from the 2005, when Mr J was sold this policy. Its recorded 
that he had an income of over £800 per month and expenditure of £400 per month. He held 
£76,000 in savings. He was retired and had learning difficulties but his brother was present 
during the meetings. His brother had power of attorney and was responsible for making 
financial decisions for Mr J. Mr Js objective was to achieve a better return on his capital than 
he could get from deposit based savings accounts.
Mr Js attitude to risk was recorded as cautious medium which was described as wanting to 
take some risk to achieve better returns. He was advised to invest around 40% of his 
savings into a plan that guaranteed the return of his capital after five years. I dont consider 
this to have presented more risk than Mr Js recorded attitude to risk.
Ive considered Mr Js CMCs argument that Mr J shouldnt have been advised to take any 
risk with potential returns. But Ive not seen enough to suggest Mr J couldnt take this level of 
risk. After investing £30,000 Mr J had £46,000 left on deposit so I think he was able to take 
some risk with the potential return on his capital. He had sufficient income to meet his 
recorded expenditure. And I cant see any record of any planned expenditure that meant 
hed need access to the funds within five years.
Ive seen that Mr J did withdraw the funds due to poor performance, but Im mindful this was 
around the time that the markets had dropped significantly due to the financial crash and, in 
any event, he received more than his initial capital deposit. Theres nothing to show Mr J 
needed earlier access to those funds. Whilst in hindsight hed have achieved better growth 
putting the money into a fixed rate bond, I dont consider this makes the advice unsuitable. 
Mr J wanted to invest in something that had the potential of offering greater returns than a 
deposit account, whilst protecting his capital. The advice Halifax gave was suitable for this.
Im also satisfied that Mr Js power of attorney had enough experience to understand the 
nature of the advice that was given, and the information about the product itself to make the 
decision for Mr J. So, I dont think Halifax gave unsuitable advice in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman