DRN-3551465
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined his lost baggage 
claim on his travel insurance policy.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr P took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 12 January 2022 to cover a trip from 
14 January 2022 to 29 January 2022. Great Lakes is the underwriter on the policy. 
Mr P went ahead on his trip and when he returned, his baggage which he checked in at 
departure airport didnt arrive and wasnt at the arrival airport in the UK. Mr P says he lost 
items worth around £2,900. On 14 February 2022, he submitted a claim for his lost baggage 
to Great Lakes. 
On 19 March 2022, Great Lakes requested further information from Mr P regarding the lost 
baggage which also included evidence that he had notified the airline of the lost items, the 
list of items being claimed for and receipts for these. Mr P provided all the receipts and the 
flight details showing his outward and return journeys. He said hed contacted the airline by 
email and telephone but had no response. He also provided a letter dated 22 March 2022 
from the airline which said the baggage had not been located and no compensation had 
been paid. 
Mr Ps claim was declined by Great Lakes. It said there was a condition on the policy that 
required a loss to be reported to the airline and a Property Irregulararity Report (PIR) had to 
be submitted. Mr P hadnt provided any evidence that he had submitted a PIR. Great Lakes 
also arranged for a third party to carry out an interview with Mr P to gather further 
information. This took place on 25 May 2022 by telephone and the third party sent its report 
to Great Lakes. It decided to decline the claim.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr P referred the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and concluded that the claim had been fairly and reasonably 
declined. The investigator said the condition in the policy terms and conditions which 
required for a PIR to be filed with the airline hadnt been met. There was no evidence from 
Mr P to show that he had submitted the PIR with the airline. She also said as Mr P hadnt 
been able to provide full and accurate information in response to the questions that Great 
Lakes had put to Mr P, so the exclusion from the policy terms and conditions had been 
applied fairly. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. Mr P didnt provide any further 
information or comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy as this forms the basis of 
Mr Ps travel insurance contract with Great Lakes. 
Page 20-21 of the policy document, under section 5 there are some special conditions that 
need to be met Special conditions relating to claims:

4. You must report the loss, or theft of personal baggage within 24 hours of 
discovery, to the local Police and to the carrier, if appropriate. Damage to personal 
baggage in transit must be reported to the carrier before you leave the baggage hall 
and a Property Irregularity Report (PIR) must be obtained

Based on the above condition, theres no evidence provided by Mr P that shows he reported 
the loss of his baggage to the airline within 24 hours of discovery. Theres also no evidence 
that a PIR had been completed before leaving the baggage hall. On this basis, Im not 
persuaded that Great Lakes had declined the claim unfairly. 
Theres also a list of general exclusions on the policy document on page 35 and page 36 
which apply to all sections of the policy. This says:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:

4. Claims following your failure to provide us with full and accurate information in 
response to our questions, or your failure to meet any Terms and Conditions of the 
policy.
 
Great Lakes provided Mr P with the opportunity to provide full and accurate information in 
response to their questions. I appreciate he provided some information, but aspects of the 
claim are partially answered or not answered. Mr P did provide receipts for all the items hes 
claiming for. Some of the receipts arent dated and some of them pre-date the trip that Mr P 
took. In the interview Mr P had with the third party, he explained that family members 
purchased the items before he arrived at his destination. Hes also provided a letter from the 
airline, but this doesnt show that he attempted to make a claim or that he had filed a PIR 
with the airline within 24 hours of discovery or before he left the baggage hall. The letter 
says no luggage had been discovered and no compensation had been paid. The third party 
report shows that Mr P was asked about the letter. He explained that hed received this letter 
by email but hadnt been able to show evidence of the email as hed lost access and deleted 
all his emails. I note Mr P said hed also tried to contact the airline by telephone and email 
but I cant see hes provided any evidence of this. Based on all the evidence available, Im satisfied that the condition to file a PIR and report 
the loss within 24 hours of discovery has not been met. Additionally, the above exclusion 
also applies to the claim and Im not persuaded that Great Lakes has applied this unfairly. 
Overall, I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed and understand dealing with the claim has 
been challenging. But, taking everything into account and in the absence of relevant 
evidence, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great 
Lakes to accept the claim. Im satisfied the claim hasnt been declined unfairly or 
unreasonably. It follows therefore that I dont require Great Lakes to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman