DRN-3494273
The complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr H was given a loan by MCF in April 2021. He borrowed £4,000 that he agreed to repay in 
60 monthly instalments. It appears that Mr H started to face some problems repaying his 
loan around the time he made his complaint and a balance remains outstanding. Mr H has 
also complained about a credit card account that MCF provided to him shortly before he was 
given this loan. That complaint is being dealt with separately so this decision will only 
consider the loan that Mr H was given in April 2021.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that MCF 
needed to gather some more information before it agreed to provide the loan to Mr H. And 
he thought that the additional information would have shown MCF that it would be unlikely 
Mr H could afford to make his repayments in a sustainable manner. So our adjudicator didnt 
think the loan should have been agreed. He asked MCF to put things right for Mr H.
MCF didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Hs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave this loan to Mr H required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr H undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr H.
MCF gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income. MCF appears to have recorded little about Mr Hs normal expenditure. It 
shows some housing costs, but nothing more. But I dont know whether this is because MCF 
failed to ask for that information, or because Mr H failed to provide it.  And MCF checked 
Mr Hs credit file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had 
managed credit in the past.
Mr H was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I would expect that MCF would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Hs financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I dont think that the checks it did were enough  I think that at the 
very least it needed some detailed information about Mr Hs normal expenditure. 
But although I dont think the checks MCF did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Mr Hs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown MCF that Mr H couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive considered what checks I think would have been 
proportionate here, and looked at what those checks would have shown MCF.
The credit check results that MCF received showed that Mr H had faced some serious 
problems managing his money in the past. The checks showed he had defaulted on at least 
six other accounts in 2017. Whilst Mr H had successfully settled most of those outstanding 
balances, he still owed money on one of the accounts.
It is often the case that consumers who have faced problems managing their money in the 
past, face similar problems in the future. Given the extent of the problems that Mr H faced in 
2017 I think it would have been reasonable to expect MCF to have conducted some more 
extensive checks into his financial situation. So Ive looked at Mr Hs bank statements, and 
what hes told us about his financial situation, to see what these further checks would have 
shown MCF.At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that MCF 
should have carried out. I do think MCF needed evidence to understand what was 
happening with Mr Hs finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving 
that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be established. 
But I think that by looking at Mr Hs bank statements I can get a good idea of what better 
checks might have shown.
It is clear from Mr Hs bank statements that he was facing serious problems with his 
finances, and in particular with what appears to be uncontrolled gambling expenditure. In the 
months leading up to this loan being agreed the bank statements show that Mr H regularly 
spent far in excess of the income he declared on transactions of this nature. So I dont think 
that any responsible lender, having had sight of Mr Hs bank statements, could have 
concluded it likely that hed be able to repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner.
So I dont think it was reasonable for MCF to provide this loan to Mr H. What I would 
consider to be proportionate checks would have shown MCF that it was unlikely that Mr H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So I think Mr Hs complaint should 
be upheld, and MCF needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I dont think MCF should have agreed to lend to Mr H in April 2021. So MCF should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr H has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Hs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr H effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MCF should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If, as seems likely, reworking Mr Hs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to 
be paid, then I remind MCF that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H
remove any adverse information already recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
the loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest. MCF must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman