DRN-2159562
The complaint
Miss W has complained that her motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited
(Admiral) unfairly settled a claim under her motor insurance policy that has had a negative
impact on her.
What happened
Admiral wrote to Miss W on 25 October 2018 to explain a claim had been made against her
policy and that it would have to hold Miss W responsible for it.
Miss W said that whilst reversing in a car park she had made very slight contact with a third-
party, but that there had been no damage to the third-party vehicle.
Admiral arranged for an independent inspection of Miss Ws vehicle which took place on 3 
December 2018. The engineer concluded that Miss Ws car had light impact damage on the 
rear bumper. After reviewing images of the third-party vehicle the engineer explained that 
the damage to the third-party car wasnt consistent with the impact between the two, and
that further clarification would be required.
The third-party insurer presented details of their outlay in relation to the repair of the third-
party vehicle and Admiral agreed to pay the claim without any further investigation, as had
been suggested by the engineer.
As a result of the way the claim was settled Miss Ws no claims discount (NCD) was reduced
and a fault claim was recorded against her.
Following a complaint made by Miss W to Admiral it agreed it shouldnt have settled the
claim and more investigation was required. To put things right Admiral paid Miss W £150
compensation and reinstated her NCD.
Admiral refused to remove the amount recorded against the claim from the claims database 
as it explained there was contact between the two vehicles and its likely it would have had 
to pay something towards the claim.
In my provisional decision sent 30 July 2020 I explained why I thought this complaint should 
be upheld. I said:
Admiral has explained that it feels it has recorded the incident fairly as there was contact
between both vehicles and it is likely it would have been held responsible for some repair
costs, even though it has now paid for some damage that was unrelated to the incident.
I have thought about what Admiral and Miss W have told us, alongside the available
evidence.
The report produced following the engineer looking at Miss Ws vehicle shows that having
looked at images provided of the third-party vehicle, that the damage presented was not
consistent with the incident that took place, and that it was more consistent with the vehicle
having collided with a post. Although the third-party still claimed for a full repair.
The comments from the engineer clearly show further investigation was required to see what
damage, if any, was related to the actual incident that took place. The only expert evidence 
that is available shows Admiral paid to repair damage that was unlikely to be as a result of 
the incident.
From the evidence available and lack of investigation carried out by Admiral, I dont think its 
possible to say that damage was caused to the third-party vehicle as a result of this incident.
So, although Admiral may have been held responsible for some repair costs it is also
possible it wouldnt have been held responsible for any or the costs.
As Admiral did not investigate the claim in the detail that it should have, we now dont know
what the outcome would have been. I dont think its fair for this to negatively impact Miss W.
I think Admiral should change the way the incident has been recorded on the Claims and
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database to reflect a notification only outcome, and update its
internal systems to reflect the same.
I have also thought about the service Miss W received from Admiral throughout the claim
process and I think that the £150 it has already offered is reasonable, so I wont be asking it
to increase this amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But as neither side responded with anything further for me to consider I see no reason to 
come to a different decision to that explained above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to put things right by 
amending the record on both its internal system and on the CUE database to show a 
notification only event.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman