DRN-3620069
The complaint
Mrs C says that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, who Ill call Barclays, 
unfairly rejected her complaint about the sale of a timeshare she financed through them.
Mrs C entered into the agreements with her partner, but as the credit card she used to pay is 
in Mrs Cs sole name, Ill refer only to her in this decision. I mean no disrespect to her 
partner when doing so.
 
What happened
Mrs C visited Tenerife and signed up for membership of a holiday club. She says she was 
unaware this was a timeshare and that the salesman told her to ignore the further fees set 
out in the documentation in respect of use, fees when not used, and maintenance. She says 
had she have known those fees would be applied she wouldnt have signed up for the deal 
as she could have found cheaper holidays through other providers.
Mrs C complained to Barclays, but they rejected the claim she made to them under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and Mrs C therefore referred her 
complaint to this Service.
Our investigator considered the agreements entered in to in July 2018 and January 2019. 
She thought the first agreement had been superseded by the second and didnt think there 
could therefore be a valid section 75 claim against it. And regardless, she noted that Mrs C 
had been able to make use of the timeshare as shed booked a holiday and used the 
contract as a deposit for the subsequent agreement. The investigator explained that in order 
for a section 75 claim to be made there needed to be a valid link between the debtor, the 
creditor, and the supplier (a so called d-c-s link). She didnt think that was the case for the 
second agreement as Mrs C had paid a company who Ill call LM who in turn had paid the 
supplier of the timeshare. There was no relationship between LM and the supplier and the 
investigator was therefore persuaded that the necessary d-c-s link had been broken.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator, and she asked for a decision by an ombudsman. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take 
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards, 
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an 
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I 
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the 
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made 
when I set out my final decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that, under a very specific set of 
circumstances, a consumer may seek to recover money paid under a contract with a 
supplier from their credit card provider. There can only be a valid claim under section 75, 
however, if there is a valid d-c-s relationship. 
The July 2018 agreement
When responding to Mrs Cs section 75 claim Barclays said:
Because the first payment and the agreement surrounding this was absorbed by the second 
agreement, the first agreement is superseded by the second and, therefore, cannot be 
claimed against.
I dont agree. Even if the second agreement superseded the first, such that they were 
entirely separate contracts, the first agreement still existed, and Mrs C would be entitled to 
raise a section 75 claim against it?
Mrs C paid £1,693 deposit to a supplier, who Ill call RD, using her Barclaycard. The bank 
therefore has a relationship with Mrs C and the supplier, and I think the d-c-s link is 
unbroken and valid.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made about this first 
agreement under section 75 have been met.
If Mrs C was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why she entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her. In those circumstances I may think Barclays were unreasonable not 
to consider and uphold a claim under section 75.
Mrs C says that she wasnt told this was a timeshare and that the salesman told her to 
ignore the fees. I cant see this first agreement was a timeshare and I dont think there is 
evidence that with regard to this first agreement Mrs C was provided with a false statement 
of fact. The agreement entitled Mrs C and her partner to a weeks holiday at a named resort, 
and thereafter to up to seven weeks accommodation that would need to be booked through 
a named provider. The contract was for 12 months only and there were no maintenance 
fees.
Mrs C used her first week of accommodation before trading in this agreement for another. I 
dont think theres evidence it was misrepresented to her.
The January 2019 agreement
In July 2018 Mrs C exited her July 2018 agreement, and the balance was used to offset 
some of the fees due on a new timeshare agreement.
Whilst LM appear to have brokered the agreement it was a company called AM that Mrs C 
has explained she made payment to. They are the suppliers of the timeshare agreement. So, I think there was a valid d-c-s agreement in place, and I can see that Barclays did as 
well, as they considered this aspect of Mrs Cs complaint under section 75.
If Mrs C was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why she entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her. In those circumstances I may think Barclays were unreasonable not 
to uphold a claim under section 75.
Mrs C says she wasnt aware the agreement was a timeshare agreement and that she 
wasnt aware that she would need to pay maintenance fees or membership fees. I think the 
agreement that Mrs C signed clearly sets out the fact that maintenance fees would be 
charged if the timeshare was used and that a membership fee would be charged if it wasnt 
used. It also explains that its a timeshare agreement and Im afraid I dont think I therefore 
have sufficient evidence to support Mrs Cs testimony that she was told otherwise.
In those circumstances, I dont think Barclays were reasonable to reject Mrs Cs section 75 
claim and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman