DRN-1077151
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Acromas Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim under his 
motor insurance policy. 
Acromas are the underwriters of the policy and so ultimately responsible for what happens 
even though Mr M has been dealing with their agents. For ease I will refer to all actions as 
being those of Acromas.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons.
There is always going to be some inconvenience when something like a car accident 
happens. Its going to take time to obtain quotes for the repairs, and for the repairs to be 
done. Theres also a chance that things might unfortunately take longer than expected, 
which is what happened here.
The reasons for Mr M being unhappy broadly fall into the five areas. For ease and clarity I 
will address them all separately.
Issues with the car hire
Acromas have paid Mr M £100 as an apology because the hire car he was offered wasnt as 
it shouldve been under the policy terms. This was fixed quickly I think the £100 is 
reasonable to put things right. Im glad to see that Mr M feels the same way about this part of 
his complaint.
Communication and delays
Acromas have paid Mr M £200 for the delays and inconvenience experienced with the claim. 
Theyve also agreed that the level of communication wasnt what it shouldve been.
The initial repairs took about two weeks longer than first estimated. This sometimes happens 
with vehicle repair estimates, especially when there is a lot of work to be done as was the 
case here. At the start of the process the time and costs are estimated. These are subject to 
change as the repairs proceed. I know this was frustrating for Mr M and Acromas have 
admitted they couldve been better about communicating what was happening.
Mr M was also offered another £100 from the business who repaired the vehicle as remedial 
work was required after the first set of repairs. Mr M declined to accept the extra £100.
Overall Im satisfied the total of £300 Mr M has been offered is fair reasonable for the 
problems that happened. Im also glad to see that, as per his policy, Mr M had use of a hire 
car while the repairs were being carried out. Thats not to say that Mr M wasnt put to some 
trouble; he clearly was, but Im satisfied this offer is a fair amount for inconvenience caused.
Vehicle loss of value
Mr Ms policy says that it doesnt cover any reduction in the market value of the vehicle 
following any repairs. I can understand why Mr M is concerned about a potential loss in 
value, but this isnt covered under the policy.
Repair warranty
The repairs on Mr Ms vehicle are guaranteed for five years under his policy. This warranty is 
only applicable whilst Mr M owns the car. The warranty does not transfer to any future 
owners of the vehicle should Mr M choose to sell it. This type of restriction isnt unusual. So 
whilst I can see why Mr M would like the warranty to stay with the vehicle if he sells it, this 
isnt something Im able to ask Acromas to change.
New vehicle benefit
Mr Ms policy says that if the cost of repairs to the vehicle are worth more than 60% of the 
value of the vehicle then it will be written off rather than being repaired. Mr M feels the cost 
of repairs were above the 60% mark so thinks the vehicle shouldve been written off. Looking 
at the evidence Im not persuaded this is the case. 
In situations like this insurers use trade guides to establish the value of the vehicle. These 
guides, for many reasons, dont always align with the asking price of vehicles being sold in 
car dealerships. The use of these guides is an industry wide practice and accepted as a 
reliable and consistent way to value a vehicle.
Looking at the evidence Im persuaded that the cost of repairs was less than 60% of the 
value of the vehicle. Im therefore satisfied that Acromas decided to repair the vehicle rather 
than write it off. I know Mr M did his own research about the value of the vehicle, but I think 
Acromas acted reasonably by using the trade guides.
Although I understand Mr Ms frustration, Im satisfied that an apology along with the £300 
he has been paid by Acromas is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman