DRN-3628710
The complaint
Ms D complains about the actions of Zopa Bank Limited surrounding a loan in her name 
which she says she didnt apply for. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some of the key events here. 
In August 2021 Zopa received a loan application for a sum of £3,300 in Ms Ds name. The 
loan was approved and paid into Ms Ds account with another bank L. The day after the 
money arrived in Ms Ds account she contacted Zopa to ask what this was all about. 
During the call where she reported this, she said that she could have applied for the loan 
previously and have forgotten about it. But when the agent confirmed that the application 
had been made very recently, Ms D said that it definitely wasnt her. There was also some 
conversation around Ms D taking responsibility for repaying the loan. Zopas agent 
suggested Ms D could return the funds, but Ms D said she would be unable to do so as L 
had blocked her account whilst they investigated. 
Zopa attempted to investigate, but Ms D wasnt prepared to answer all the questions they 
asked her, nor to complete their fraud declaration. The matter was referred to our service 
and one of our Investigators looked into it. In summary she didnt think Zopa holding Ms D 
liable for the loan was unfair or unreasonable. Ms D is adamant that she didnt apply for the 
loan, she says she is willing to repay the principal amount and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing for Ms D, so Ill explain why. 
Zopa have evidenced that the loan application they received (with the exception of a mobile 
phone number) used Ms Ds genuine and correct details. This included the correct email 
address. This is something Ms D would seem to agree with as she acknowledges receiving 
an initial email in relation to the loan and another about the direct debit for repayments. 
Zopa have evidenced that they completed their checks prior to agreeing the loan. Theyve 
also explained that when a loan agreement is electronically signed this can only be done by 
accessing a link that was sent to the email address on file for the borrower. They also 
checked that the account into which the funds were to be paid was in the same name as the 
applicant (Ms D). As such, I dont think there were any errors by Zopa in agreeing to and 
paying out the loan. 
Once Ms D reported matters to Zopa, they took the steps Id expect them to take. They 
asked Ms D to complete their fraud declaration. And they also made enquiries with L. It 
confirmed that the funds had credited Ms Ds account. Some went towards reducing an 
overdraft on the account and around £2,500 was used towards the outstanding balance on a 
credit card Ms D also held with L.
The latest information Ive received is that Zopa are still holding Ms D liable for the loan. 
Implicit in this decision is that they believe Ms D took the loan herself. So I must decide if the 
conclusion Zopa have reached, based on the information available to them was fair and 
reasonable. 
As our Investigator said, for a third party to have been responsible, they would have needed 
access to Ms Ds genuine email account (the same one she uses to communicate with our 
service). And they would have needed to have known a lot of her personal information such 
as her home address and date of birth as well as her bank account details with L. Its difficult 
to understand how a third party could have obtained all this information and acquired access 
to her email account. 
I appreciate that Ms D has said that she received some suspicious phone calls around this 
time which she believed to be someone impersonating both Zopa and L. Shes also 
explained that she made the payment to her credit card to keep the funds safe. Ive 
considered all of this.
But the borrowed funds were paid to Ms D. They were then used by her to reduce her own 
existing debt. There isnt evidence of a known compromise of Ms Ds personal details and 
email address. There is no obvious explanation for how anyone other than Ms D might have 
been able to access the borrowed funds from her account with L (which would presumably 
negate any benefit to a third party fraudulently applying for the loan). And whilst I 
acknowledge Ms Ds individual circumstances and concerns about her personal information, 
I dont think she has fully co-operated with Zopas attempts at investigating the matter. 
So taking all of this into consideration, I think that Zopas decision to hold Ms L liable for the 
loan is fair and reasonable and Im not going to tell them they need to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman