DRN-2242985
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection 
with an Egg credit card. Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to Barclays as the seller to keep things simple. 
What happened
Mr P opened an Egg credit card account in 2010. At the same time, he took out a PPI policy 
to protect his monthly credit card repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr P applied for the credit card and PPI online.
The PPI would have helped with Mr Ps monthly credit card repayments for up to 12 months 
if hed made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said 
that Mr P had suffered from a serious medical condition a few years before he took out the 
PPI. And due to the severity and nature of the condition, the adjudicator didnt think Mr P 
would have taken out the PPI if the exclusion for existing medical conditions had been drawn 
to his attention.
Barclays didnt agree with the adjudicators view. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P applied for the credit card and PPI online. Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P, 
so it didnt need to check that it was suitable for him. But it still had a responsibility to give 
Mr P clear enough information to enable him to decide for himself whether he wanted to take 
the cover.
Mr P had suffered from a serious illness around eight years before he took out the credit 
card and PPI. Hed had to take a couple of months off work for it at the time. Following his 
treatment for the condition, hed had to see a doctor every six months about the condition. 
The frequency of the check-ups later reduced to once a year, and theyre still continuing.
The policy didnt cover Mr P for disability resulting directly or indirectly from a pre-existing 
condition or a chronic condition. 
In the policy certificate which Barclays has provided, Pre-Existing Condition was defined as 
any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness, related condition and/or associated 
symptoms whether diagnosed or not about which the policyholder knew or should 
reasonably have known when the policy started, or about which the policyholder had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor during the 12 months before the policy started. The exclusion didnt 
apply if the policyholder had been free from symptoms and hadnt consulted a doctor or 
received treatment for a two-year period before the claim.
And the definition of Chronic Condition included a condition which requires long-term 
monitoring or treatment, consultations, check ups, examinations or tests.
So Mr P wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness claim under the policy if it 
resulted directly or indirectly from the illness hed previously had. 
Ive seen screenshots of the online application process, which Im satisfied are likely to be 
similar to what Mr P would have seen when he applied for the card. But Im not satisfied that 
the exclusions for pre-existing and chronic medical conditions were brought clearly to Mr Ps 
attention.
Mr P would have had to click to confirm whether or not he wished to take the PPI. If he said 
he wanted it, a box would have appeared, flagging up the fact that the policy contained 
significant exclusions and limitations. There was then a scrollbox, with what looks to have 
been a large amount of closely-typed text. There was a lot of information for the applicant to 
take in, and I think the exclusions for pre-existing and chronic conditions, and their potential 
impact on him would have been easy for Mr P to miss.
Its true that it was some years since Mr P had been diagnosed with the condition and 
received treatment. But the condition was very serious. There was a potential for further, 
related illness, and Mr P was still being monitored for the condition. In the circumstances, 
I think its likely that if the exclusions for pre-existing and chronic conditions had been clearly 
pointed out to Mr P, hed have been concerned that the policy wouldnt have been there for 
him when he needed it. And Im not convinced hed have taken it out.
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr P would have owed when his credit card account 
was closed if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr P owed when his account 
was closed and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr P would have 
owed when his account was closed from when it was closed until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.*C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr P would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr P paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr P would have owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.*
D. Barclays should tell Mr P what its done to work out A, B and C.
Barclays may subtract the amount that it has already repaid to Mr P in respect of 
commission relating to this PPI sale from the redress shown above
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman