DRN-4420563
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund all the 
money she lost after she fell victim to a purchase scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Mrs W says her son came across a vehicle on a well-known marketplace which he showed 
to her. Following this, Mrs W messaged the seller, and later agreed to buy the vehicle for 
£500. 
Mrs W went ahead and made a payment of £150 on 1 June 2023, for what she believed was 
a deposit which also included delivery of the vehicle to her location. She says it was agreed 
shed pay the remainder of the balance on delivery. However, the same day Mrs W was 
asked to make a further payment of £150 which she proceeded to make to the new payee 
details given to her.
After making the second payment, Mrs W was informed that there has been an issue where 
a colleague had also taken a deposit for the same vehicle. The third party messaged Mrs W 
to explain this and gave her the option to make a third payment to secure the vehicle as hers 
 Mrs W says she was sent a website link, which she said was for a mobile phone top up 
card company. 
It was following this that Mrs W became concerned, and she contacted Halifax to see if there 
was anything it could do to help and see if her money could be recovered. Halifax declined 
to reimburse Mrs W her full loss. Unhappy Mrs W complained to Halifax on 8 June 2023. It 
looked into the matter and issued its final response letter on 3 July 2023. Having considered 
the payments under the voluntary code called the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code) which came into force in May 2019, and it is a signatory of, Halifax concluded 
that Mrs W didnt have a reasonable basis to believe this was a genuine sale. It felt Mrs W 
hadnt carried out enough checks on the vehicle or the seller prior to sending the payments. 
It also said it didnt consider the payments made to be unusual to previous account activity 
and, therefore, there were no concerns. 
However, it explained that when the claim was reported, it successfully raised a scam claim 
for one payment but that for the other payment this wasnt raised until the following day. 
Because of this, Halifax refunded 50% of one of the payments (£75.00) for the error.  
Unhappy that Halifax didnt refund the full amount she had lost, Mrs W brought her 
complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Our Investigator thought there was enough going on that Mrs W 
ought to have had concerns and that she should have taken further steps before making the 
payments. It follows that she didnt think Mrs W had met her requirements under the CRM 
Code. She also didnt think the payments wouldve stood out as out of character or so 
unusual that they ought to have caused Halifax concern that Mrs W was at risk of harm from 
fraud. As our Investigator didnt think a scam risk wouldve been apparent, she didnt think 
Halifax needed to provide an effective warning or contact Mrs W about the payments before 
processing them.  
Our investigator also thought about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, but she didnt think 
this meant Mrs W was unable to protect herself from the scam she fell victim to or that she 
met the bar for vulnerability under the CRM Code. Our Investigator was satisfied Halifax had 
done what shed expect of it for one of the payments when attempting to recover the money, 
but unfortunately no funds remained. She acknowledged there was a delay by Halifax in 
attempting the recover the funds for the other payment. As part of her investigation, she 
contacted the receiving bank of these funds, and she wasnt persuaded a full recovery 
wouldve been successful even had there not been a delay by Halifax. This was because 
she said most of the funds had left the receiving account the same day as the payment was 
received. Therefore, she felt Halifaxs refund of 50% of the payment was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and she didnt think it was required to reimburse Mrs W her remaining 
loss. 
Mrs W didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, she felt Halifaxs delay in trying 
to recover her money meant the bank was at fault and so she felt Halifax should reimburse 
her the full amount of her loss. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W but Im not upholding her complaint about Halifax. I know shes 
been the victim of a cruel scam, and that shes been left out of pocket. But having reviewed 
everything Ive been given; I dont believe Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
response to Mrs Ws complaint. And I dont find Halifax is liable for Mrs Ws remaining loss. I 
will now explain why in more detail. 
As noted above, the CRM Code exists to provide additional protection to victims from the 
impact of Authorised Push Payments (APP) scams. Im satisfied that the payments made by 
Mrs W here fall within the scope of the CRM Code.
 
But despite offering additional protections, the CRM Code includes provisions 
allowing a firm not to reimburse APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the 
customer failed to take sufficient care when making the payment (often referred to as the 
exceptions to reimbursement).
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
-The customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Halifax says it has established this applies here. Ive considered whether I agree this is fair in 
the circumstances. In other words, I need to determine whether Mrs W made the payments 
without having had a reasonable basis for believing she was paying for genuine goods or 
services, dealing with a legitimate person or business, or paying the person she believed 
she was paying.
I acknowledge that Mrs W has told us shed never used the marketplace previously and so 
this was new to her when she made the payments. Shes explained that she didnt know that 
she had to carry out checks or what checks to carry out. She did tell us that she checked the 
DVLA for a MOT  as the advert said the vehicle came with a years MOT and that she 
checked the cost of insuring the vehicle. Mrs W has stressed she thought the price of the 
vehicle was reasonable for the age of the vehicle.  
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ws thoughts about the price of the vehicle. However, having 
reviewed recognised trade guides, that provide average vehicle sale prices based on make, 
model, vehicle age and mileage, Im persuaded the price of the vehicle was considerably 
less that what comparable vehicles were being sold for at the time of the scam. I am mindful, 
Mrs W said she didnt know what the mileage of the vehicle was and so an estimated 
mileage was used and, from what Ive seen the market value for this vehicle in the condition 
described to us and using the estimated mileage was between £1,940 and £2,494. So based 
on what Ive seen, on balance, I think the price the vehicle was advertised for was too good 
to be true. I think the price ought to have raised concerns, especially when taking into 
account that this also included delivery from London to Mrs Ws location at no extra cost. 
And whilst Mrs W wasnt familiar with the marketplace, I am persuaded that when looking to 
make a purchase for an item such as a vehicle that it is fair and reasonable to expect a 
buyer to carry out some checks into the price of the vehicle to see whether it is comparable 
to others on the market at the time. 
Ive also not seen anything that shows Mrs W asked any questions to satisfy herself that the 
person she was in contact with was infact in possession of the vehicle she was looking to 
purchase. Mrs W after being shown the vehicle on the marketplace sent a message to whom 
she believed was the seller. However, she received a reply from a different third party. In 
addition to this she was then asked to make the two payments to two different individuals  
neither of which were the third party to reply to Mrs W or whom she thought was the seller of 
the vehicle. I think she ought to have been more concerned about this than she ultimately 
was, especially against the backdrop that Mrs W hasnt seen the vehicle in person. 
Seemingly, Mrs W placed a lot of trust in a person shed never met before and took the word 
of a relative stranger. She was sending the money without having been able to verify that the 
seller actually had the vehicle. Im persuaded Mrs W ought to have had greater concerns 
about the deal and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of scrutiny on her part. 
Buying a car unseen at a considerable discount was always a risk. I think Mrs W should 
have done more than she did to question the arrangement and what she was being asked to 
do before paying any money.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mrs W from proceeding. But when considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mrs W ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect herself. I think Mrs W should have done more than she did to question the 
deal and to satisfy herself that it was legitimate before making the payments.
All things considered, in the circumstances of this particular case, I dont think Mrs W had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was paying who she expected to pay, nor that she was 
paying a legitimate seller for genuine goods. So, under the terms of the CRM Code, Halifax 
is entitled to rely on an exception to reimbursement. 
Ive also thought carefully about what Mrs W has told us about her circumstances. The CRM 
Code talks about customers being reimbursed in full, despite exceptions (such that I have 
outlined above) applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent that they were unable 
to protect themselves from the scam. So, I have also considered what the CRM Code says 
about vulnerability and when it might lead to a full refund, even if Mrs W didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief.
When considering the relevant part of the CRM Code, it says:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis.
So Ive considered whether there are vulnerabilities present to such an extent that Mrs W 
was unable to take steps to identify the scam she fell victim to or to recognise steps she 
might take to test the legitimacy of what she was being told by the fraudster. To do so I must 
consider the details of the scam, Mrs Ws actions throughout, and the wider circumstances.
Id like to assure Mrs W that I dont doubt what shes said about her medical conditions and 
the bereavement of a close family member. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
because of the circumstances shes shared Mrs W was unable to protect herself from this 
particular scam. Mrs W was shown a vehicle on the online marketplace by her son, and she 
proceeded to make the decision to contact the seller, and ultimately decided she wanted to 
purchase the vehicle.
 
Given this, Im not persuaded that it would be unreasonable to expect Mrs W to have 
protected herself against the particular scam she fell victim to. And so I dont find Halifax 
needs to refund Mrs Ws entire loss under the vulnerability clause of the code.
Ive then gone on to think about whether Halifax met its own standards under the CRM 
Code. The code says that the bank is required to provide an effective warning only where it 
identifies an APP scam risk, which it should do by considering the normal transactional data 
of the account and customer behaviour. Looking at the payments Mrs W made here, I dont 
think they would have appeared so unusual or out of character when compared with her 
previous account activity that the payments would have appeared particularly suspicious to 
the bank. Halifax wouldnt have been required to provide an effective warning unless other 
risk factors were present, which I dont find they were in this case.
Finally, Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ws comments in relation to the bank not acting 
quickly enough when attempting to recover the money and her belief that had it acted more 
quickly, more of her money wouldve been recovered. As set out in the banks final response 
letter of 3 July 2023 and by our Investigator, Halifax accepts that it didnt act within the 
timeframes allowed under the CRM Code for one of the payments Mrs W made. In light of 
this, Halifax accepted partial liability for this payment and reimbursed Mrs W 50% of one of the payments she made (£75.00). Whilst I accept an error was made by the bank when 
attempting to recover Mrs Ws fund, this would not automatically mean Halifax was liable to 
reimburse Mrs W all the money shed lost. The information Ive seen indicates that even had 
there not been a delay in attempting to recover the money for one of Mrs Ws payments it 
wouldnt have made a difference, as the majority of the funds had left the receiving account 
the same day the payment was made. Therefore, Im persuaded Halifaxs refund of 50% of 
this payment was fair and reasonable in the circumstances on this case.  
Id like to assure Mrs W that she has my considerable sympathies. Shes found herself in an 
unenviable situation where she has lost money to a fraudster. And I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for her and I dont underestimate her strength of 
feeling. But overall, for reasons explained Im persuaded that the 50% of one payment 
Halifax has already paid, is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of this case. 
So I dont think Halifax has to refund any more of the money Mrs W lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman