DRN-4158947
Complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) reduced the overdraft on his account 
without adequate notice. Hes also unhappy that this led to his overdraft being removed and 
adverse information being recorded with credit reference agencies. 
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that Santander had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
I think that its worth me starting by saying that Mr S himself accepts that hed forgotten to 
credit his account, in accordance with the terms and conditions, at the beginning of the 
Spring term in 2022. Its also worth pointing out that even after this Mr S transferred out the 
funds hed transferred in on the same day. 
I know that Mr S says he was told that this was sufficient to sustain his agreed overdraft and 
it appears as though hed done this before. Its also possible that Mr S had done this on time,  
Santander might not have taken any action in relation to his overdraft. But Im satisfied that 
the terms and conditions required Mr S to use his Santander student account as his main or 
primary current account and pay in his main form of funding. 
These same terms and conditions also permitted Santander to discontinue some of the 
services and/or close the account itself in the event that it failed to receive sufficient funding. 
So Im satisfied that the terms and conditions did permit Santander to reduce the overdraft 
limit on Mr S account.  
The overdraft limit on Mr S account was reduced from £1,800.00 to £1,500.00 in  
September 2022. That said, even though Santander was permitted to take this action, I 
would still expect it to have notified Mr S of this in advance of this happening. Mr S says that 
he only found out about the reduction to his limit after it had taken place and that Santander 
didnt make him aware of this change to his overdraft in advance. 
However, Santander has provided sufficient evidence to satisfy me that it more likely than 
not sent the required notification in advance of Mr S overdraft limit being reduced. This 
evidence includes a copy of the letter that was sent to Mr S in July 2022. I know Mr S says 
he didnt receive this letter. But the letter was correctly addressed using Mr S address 
details. And Santander has also provided evidence to show that this letter wasnt returned to 
it as undeliverable either.
So while its possible Mr S may not have received the letter, or paid much attention perhaps 
because he didnt realise the significance at the time, Santander did what it was required to. 
And while Mr S has referred to Santander having to make all reasonable steps to contact 
him, Im satisfied that sending this letter was a sufficient reasonable step. And, in these 
circumstances, I dont think Santander acted unfairly as it appears to have taken reasonable 
steps to notify Mr S that his overdraft limit would be reducing in advance of this happening. 
I now turn to Santanders reporting of Mr S overdraft to credit reference agencies. Mr S says 
that it was unfair for Santander to report adverse information regarding his account. But it 
isnt in dispute that Mr S was over his agreed overdraft limit from September 2022. And 
Santander is required to report accurate information to credit reference agencies.
Its also clear that Mr S has been written to several times about his overdraft being over its 
limit. The letters encourage Mr S to get in touch to set up a repayment plan and even 
signpost him to debt charities should he be having difficulty repaying. I know that Mr S says 
he called Santander on a number of occasions and that he didnt receive phone calls that he 
was promised either. 
But Ive seen notes that suggest that at least some telephone discussions about the 
overdraft took place. And during each conversation Mr S said that he was unable to pay 
anything at all to his balance. Indeed, I note that in his complaint form, Mr S even said that a 
period where he wouldnt have to repay anything at all should be put in place, despite the 
fact that this wouldnt be in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account even if it 
hadnt been in arrears. 
In these circumstances, it seems to me that Mr S overdraft had become (and it still remains) 
demonstrably unsustainable for him. I wouldnt expect and neither do I consider that it would 
fair, reasonable or proportionate for Santander to continue ignoring this indefinitely. 
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. I fully appreciate Mr Shas gone through a difficult time and 
understand why hes unhappy with a default being recorded on his credit file and worried 
about the impact this will have on him. 
But asking Santander to reinstate the overdraft here, or remove the default, when what Mr S 
has said indicates that he isnt in a position to make payments, despite the time that has 
passed, wouldnt be an accurate representation of the position. Furthermore doing so would 
also arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr S interests or that of any future lender. 
Indeed, removing the default in circumstances where Mr S appears unable to repay this debt 
within a reasonable period of time, is simply likely to result in a default being once again 
recorded again further down the line. This would restart the six-year recording period and  
Mr S will end up having had a default recorded on his credit file for far longer than he should 
have done. 
Bearing in mind all of the above, Im satisfied that Santander didnt act unfairly when 
defaulting Mr S overdraft or reporting adverse information to credit reference agencies 
either. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr S 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman