DRN-3946948
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank unfairly 
registered a default with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mrs B says she missed a couple of payments while she was on a payment plan, but Tesco 
still collected the payments after the missed repayments. She said she did not contact them 
as she didnt receive any letters about this and the account has now defaulted, but they are 
still taking payments from her account. Mrs B made a complaint to Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. They said on 2 October 2020, an agreement was 
made to stop all charges, fees and interest being made to her account, as long as she paid 
at least the minimum payment on time, which Mrs B had agreed to. They said as Mrs B 
hadnt made payments in full and on time, then a default was applied, and her credit 
agreement terminated and they had made no error in doing this. Mrs B brought her 
complaint to our service. She also says that Tesco had reported incorrect information to the 
CRAs as missed payments instead of a payment arrangement.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. He said that there was no dispute that she 
missed payments in May and July 2022. While Mrs B explained that this was because of 
problems with her bank account, she didnt contact Tesco about this at the time. He said 
Tesco were entitled to default the account, as the payment plan hadnt been kept. Tesco 
wrote to her to explain this and although Mrs B said she didnt receive the letters due to 
issues with post in her area, Tesco would not be responsible for this as they had sent the 
letter. He said if Mrs B had contacted Tesco then they would have resumed charging interest 
or agreed a formal payment plan, which was likely to involve the account defaulting. Our 
investigator said that he compared the information from Mrs Bs credit file with Tescos 
system notes of payment arrangements and payments made and missed, and her credit file 
now appears correct. He said it may have been incorrect for a period of time due to the 
unusual plan agreed, but theres no evidence Mrs B lost out because of this. Mrs B asked for 
an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what should or 
shouldnt be reported. The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and 
it has released a document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and 
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies (PRAAD). It is entirely reasonable to rely on this, 
because when determining a complaint, amongst other things, I am required to take into 
account good industry practice and in my view, these principles constitute good industry 
practice in this area.
Section three of this document shows If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is 
reported (to the CRAs) will depend on whether it is agreed with the lender. As Tesco 
agreed to a formal arrangement plan as documented in their final response to Mrs B, this 
plan was agreed in October 2020. So as long as Mrs B kept up with the repayments they 
should have been reflecting an arrangement to pay on Mrs Bs credit file. 
I can see that there were two missed payment markers on Mrs Bs credit file in early 2021, 
which would have meant this agreement was broken. Ive looked at Tescos system notes 
during this timeframe to see what happened and what was agreed moving forward. The 
issue appears to have been with the bank instructing Tesco to cancel the direct debit, due to 
the circumstances on Mrs Bs bank account. Mrs B then later rings Tesco up to apologise for 
missing the payment, a standing order is set up for the following month and they agree to the 
arrangement again. But due to the time the last payment had been made and the next 
payment was made, it appears she did not manage to pay the arranged payment for two 
statement periods and that is why her credit file now shows as two missed payments for 
March and April 2021. 
After this, Mrs B does go back to her £30 a month arrangement and this is maintained until 
she does not make a payment in May 2022. This time there is no evidence she contacts 
Tesco. So Tesco issued Mrs B a letter to her registered address on 7 June 2022 for her to 
contact them, but they received no contact. Although Mrs B makes a payment in June, her 
arrangement had already been broken in the previous month when she didnt make a 
repayment. As she then didnt clear the arrears, this is why there is no successful payment 
or arrangement to pay marker on her credit file from this date. 
PRAAD states that If an arrangement is agreed. a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.  As Mrs B broke the terms of 
the arrangement by not paying in May 2022, this is why Tesco issued a notice of default 
when they hadnt heard from Mrs B. PRAAD says The lender must have notified you of their 
intention to register a default against you at least 28 days before doing so, in order to give 
you time to make an acceptable payment or reach an agreement with them on an 
arrangement.
The notice of default is dated 14 July 2022 and although the notice asks Mrs B to pay the 
arrears by 10 August, which is 27 days later, they wrote to her again on 11 August (the day 
in which they could have registered the default when they didnt hear from Mrs B), to give 
her another five days to make a payment or they would default the account. As they hadnt 
heard from Mrs B within this timeframe, they defaulted the account. 
I know Mrs B says that they should have rung her regarding the missed payment, but Tesco 
are not obliged to do so as they communicated the account status and arrears to her with 
multiple letters. I know Mrs B says she has had problems with her post, but all of the letters 
were addressed to her property and she received the termination notice. But I cant hold 
Tesco responsible with any errors or delays with the postal system as this is out of their 
control.  
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about Tesco recording the information incorrectly on 
her credit file. While I havent been provided with a copy of her credit file prior to the version 
she has provided our service, it appears her credit file is now correct. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mrs B has lost out as a result of what her credit file previously showed, and it 
would still show missed payments now, so Im persuaded this would have been a low impact 
on her. 
But given what Mrs B has said about her circumstances with her bank account and her 
postal issues she may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to 
explain what happened here. This is a short explanatory note that she can add to an entry on her credit file, to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches her credit 
report, such as a mortgage provider, would see the notice of correction and take the notice 
into account if they viewed her credit file. Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like 
this differently and it isn't a guarantee that they will put the underlying payment information to 
one side. But given how strongly Mrs B feels here - it is an option that is open to her. She 
would need to contact the CRAs to do this. But as Tesco have made no error in reporting 
the default to the CRAs as they are obliged to do this, it follows I dont require Tesco to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman