DRN-4221694
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked his debit card.
What happened
On 28 January 2023, Mr F tried to make two payments for £2,000 and £1,000. The payment 
for £2,000 was stopped and his card suspended.
Mr F complained  he said he was in an airport at the time, and because of the block on his 
card, he had to spend a night on the airport floor  as he couldnt book accommodation, nor 
could he buy any food. He says he should be compensated for what happened.
Santander said the payment was stopped due to security concerns  to protect customers 
from fraud. And in some cases, they may restrict the use of the card until they can verify it is 
a genuine transaction. In this case, it wasnt felt appropriate to call Mr F  as the phone had 
been used as part of the verification process. Therefore, they couldnt call him on the same 
phone. They considered the declined transaction was a prompt for Mr F to call Santander. 
They didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander acted reasonably. The 
blocked transaction was for a bitcoin investment  and Santanders systems flagged them as 
subject to a possible fraud, and Mr Fs card was then blocked. He said it was reasonable for 
Santander not to call Mr F on the same phone as that which had been used to validate the 
payments  as further contact could lead to further compromising of a customers security.
Mr F didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint  and so it has come 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cause of the block on Mr Fs card was that he attempted to make two payments for 
£2,000 and £1,000 in favour of a bitcoin firm. Mr Fs phone had been used as part of the 
authorisation process for the payments. The payment for £2,000 was stopped and Mr Fs 
card was suspended.
Mr F has argued that Santander shouldve called him when they decided to block his card  
and he could then have been taken through checks to validate the card and the payments. 
I hear what he says  and we asked Santander more questions about this. Theyve 
confirmed that where a phone has been used to validate a payment  then they wont call 
that phone. This is because (put simply)  if the phone had been stolen or was under the 
control of a fraudster or scammer, then it could be used to get through Santanders further 
security checks (e.g. by responding to a one-time passcode on the phone, or a text 
authorisation). And in the case of the payments to the bitcoin firm (for £1,000 and £2,000), 
the payments had been authorised through the phone. 
It's also reasonable to say that fraud is significant for all firms  and payments to a bitcoin 
investment are common indicators of fraud. So  I can see why Santander did what they did. 
And so  I dont consider they made an error here.
Mr F says he had to then spend a night on the floor of an airport, without food  as he 
couldnt use his card. We asked him for some more information about what happened, and 
why the impact on him was what it was  but unfortunately, he didnt respond. But in this 
case, as I think Santander acted reasonably, the lack of this information doesnt affect my 
final decision.
I was sorry to learn of the impact on Mr F and the inconvenience it caused him. I can see 
and appreciate that Mr F feels strongly about his complaint and has argued strongly in 
support of it. He will therefore be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman