DRN-4021451
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her car insurer Haven Insurance Company Limited regarding 
two claims she made to it.
What happened
In March 2022, Miss H found her car had been damaged  it was dented and scratched on 
its side and she found the seatbelt wasnt working. She made a claim. It was ten-days before 
Haven acknowledged it. Initially a courtesy car wasnt available, so Haven arranged a hire 
car for Miss H to use. Miss H paid £60 to the hire company. A courtesy car was then 
provided by Haven but it made no arrangements for the hire car to be collected.
In April 2022 Miss H was involved in an accident with another car whilst driving the courtesy 
car. She told Haven. It logged another claim and began trying to get the other drivers insurer 
to accept liability for the incident. But it told the garage, repairing Miss Hs car, that she 
would have to pay an excess for the courtesy car.
On 6 May 2022, having complained to Haven, Miss H complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She was unhappy about a number of things, including that her car had 
not been fully repaired, that Haven had spoken to the garage about her claims and excess, 
and that the excess for the second claim had to be paid.
Our Investigator felt that Miss H had received some poor service from Haven, causing her 
upset, for which she felt it should pay £100 compensation. She also thought Miss H had 
been unfairly left without a car for ten days, so she said Haven should pay a further £100. 
She wasnt otherwise minded to find Haven at fault or to make any award.
Miss H said she was pleased with the awards made. But that the second claim, for the 
accident she had in the courtesy car, had still not been settled and shed had to sell her car 
because Haven hadnt fixed it properly. Our Investigator clarified that Miss H would have to 
make a new complaint to Haven about what had happened with the courtesy car claim. She 
said that claim was only two-weeks old when Miss H made her complaint about the first 
claim and having to pay the excess on the second. Regarding the repair of Miss Hs car, our 
Investigator didnt think Haven had failed Miss H by missing damage likely insured. The 
complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Miss H  that having found damage to her 
car, she then had a second accident, became liable for two excess payments and then had 
to sell her car, ultimately entering into a finance agreement for a replacement. However, and 
whilst I think Haven could have done some things better, I cant reasonably find it has failed 
Miss H such that the second excess payment is not due, or so badly that it caused her to 
have to sell her car.  
Delay at the start of the claim for Miss Hs car
Miss H said she didnt hear anything for about two weeks from Haven. But I can see that 
once Miss H made the claim there was contact between her and Haven during the first two 
weeks. I dont think there was generally poor service at this time.
Delays with an alternative car being provided
Haven has acknowledged that, at the start of the claim, it was ten days before it provided 
another car for Miss H to use. Haven has agreed to make a payment to Miss H of £10 a day, 
totalling £100, to make up for her being without a car during that time. I think that is fair and 
reasonable.
Hire and courtesy car
I can see that when Haven couldnt provide a courtesy car, it arranged a hire car. I think that 
was a good thing for it to do. I know Miss H paid the hire company £60  but this was in 
respect of optional further cover, so it wasnt something Miss H had to pay.  
I know that when a courtesy car was provided, Miss H had to contact the hire company 
about taking its car back. I appreciate that this caused Miss H a little inconvenience, maybe 
some frustration  but I think this is something shed always have had to be involved in.
I know Miss H felt the courtesy car was unsuitably small. However, her policy, like most, only 
agrees to provide a small vehicle as a courtesy car. 
Excess amount
Miss H thought she had an excess sum of £400 to pay. But Ive seen the policy schedule 
which shows three excess amounts apply, totalling £500.
Two excesses charged
I know that Miss H feels the issue is simple  that she was not at fault for the second 
accident and it was witnessed by the police. So Haven, in Miss Hs view, should just be able 
to settle the matter and she shouldnt have to pay the/another excess.  
When Miss H complained to Haven and this service about the first incident and having to 
pay the excess for the second claim, the second claim was only around a couple of weeks 
old. Whilst Haven should take Miss Hs view of the accident into account, that doesnt mean 
that Haven can force the other insurer to pay the claim. An insurer does need time to try and 
gain acceptance of liability from the other party to the incident. I can see that Haven did take 
reasonable actions on the claim within those first few weeks and I cant look at what 
happened after that as part of this complaint.   
Unfortunately for Miss H, the excess is a sum the policy, which she has agreed to, requires 
her to pay Haven in the event of any claim on the policy. If the claim is settled as one of fault 
against the other driver then she may get her excess payment back. But a claim on the 
policy, which this was, results in a policy excess having to be paid. So I think Haven acted 
fairly and reasonably in initially charging this and, further, in following its usual practice for an 
insurer to ask a garage to collect the excess payment on its behalf.
After the initial request though, I think Haven could have dealt with Miss H more 
sympathetically. It is clear she was struggling financially, and she couldnt have expected to 
have two claims so close together. I understand that the excess fee for the second claim 
may still be outstanding, and the claim has not been resolved. If Haven should insist on Miss H paying this sum it needs to make suitable adjustments to assist Miss H with payment 
in her difficult financial situation.
Repair of Miss Hs car
I know Miss H feels that Haven did not repair her car properly. She feels that it ignored her 
initial reports that, following her finding bodywork damage to the doors on the drivers-side of 
her car, it exhibited power issues and there was a problem with the seatbelt. After Miss Hs 
car was returned to her in May 2022 she had it checked at a garage which found issues with 
the engine mounting. She told Haven but it said the power and seatbelt issues werent 
related to the incident. Miss H sold her car.
Ive seen the diagnostic Miss H provided. It shows that the engine mounting had failed. 
I know Miss H reports that the garage said this was caused by an impact  so she thinks it 
happened when her car was damaged. But Im mindful that Miss H was not aware of a major 
impact to her car  rather she found it one morning with relatively minor bodywork damage, 
some minor denting and scratching. And I see this is largely around the centre pillar of the 
car, perhaps more so on the rear door. So Im not sure how this could have caused major 
damage to the engine bay, or even have caused a problem with the seatbelt. I think Havens 
view that it, and the seatbelt damage, are likely caused by wear and tear, as such being 
unrelated to the incident, is fair and reasonable. As such, whilst I know it was upsetting for 
Miss H to have these problems with the car and to feel she had to sell it, I dont think that is 
something I can fairly and reasonably blame Haven for.
Customer service
As the findings Ive set out above show, I think Haven did, at times during this claim, fail 
Miss H. Im also aware of a delay in the courtesy car being recovered after the incident and 
that Miss H has experienced upset when talking to Haven on the phone. I think its fair to say 
that Havens service couldve been better. Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due to Miss H.
Putting things right
I require Haven to pay Miss H:
£100 for ten days loss of use of her car.
£100 compensation for upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman