DRN-2558281
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H are complaining about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a 
claim they made following an escape of water in their home. In particular they say Ageas 
didnt return their home in a safe condition.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr B and Ms H suffered a major escape of water in their home. Ageas agreed 
to meet their claim and they were in alternate accommodation for about eighteen months. 
When they returned home, the whole family began to suffer ill health, and thinks it may well 
have been caused by contaminants  specifically Legionnaires disease  that had 
developed in the pipes connected to their jacuzzi bath whilst theyd been living elsewhere.
Mr B and Ms H complained about this in mid-2020, saying that it was Ageas responsibility to 
look after the water system whilst theyd been away. In particular they pointed out that the 
bath needed maintenance every couple of months to prevent the build-up of bacteria.  
Ageas responded to say, in summary, that it would expect any contractors working on the 
plumbing in the house to deal with this, and didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Mr B 
and Ms H asked us to review their complaint.
Our investigator thought Ageas need not do more than it had. She said she hadnt seen any 
evidence that Ms H was suffering from Legionnaires disease, nor had she seen any 
evidence that linked Ageas actions to Ms Hs health problems. She noted that a test for 
Legionnaires disease on the bath was negative, and that Ms Hs GP had suggested she 
was suffering from an allergic reaction to something in the house.
Mr B and Ms H disagree, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr B and Ms H have made several complaints about how Ageas handled 
their claim, but for clarity this decision is only about whether Ageas had a responsibility to 
prevent or remedy any possible contamination of Mr B and Ms Hs jacuzzi/standing water 
whilst they were away from their home.
Ageas says in its final response to Mr B and Ms Hs complaint, that although its generally 
accepted that those responsible for commercial buildings have a duty to ensure water 
systems are safe, the likelihood of Legionnaires disease is less common in a domestic 
system. It goes on to say that the contractor re-commissioning the system should have been 
able to ensure the water was safe. 
From what Ive seen, Ageas involvement in the repairs was that it agreed the scope of 
works outlined by Mr B and Ms Hs loss assessor, and paid invoices submitted by the 
assessor. It didnt directly control the contractor doing the work. It seems to me that the 
quality and completion of the works were supervised by Mr B and Ms Hs assessor and/or Mr 
B and Ms H  not Ageas. 
I agree theres no mention in the schedule of works of cleaning the system before Mr B and 
Ms H returned to the house. But I dont think its unreasonable for Ageas to say it thinks its 
the contractors responsibility to do that as a matter of course to ensure the safety of any 
plumbing the contractor had worked on. 
Having said that, Ageas does have a general responsibility to return a customers property in 
a safe condition. And it might be that, in similar circumstances, Ageas checks for this point 
as a precaution in the future. But thats a commercial decision for Ageas to make, and not 
one its appropriate for me to interfere with. Even bearing this in mind, Im not going to 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
To make a successful complaint, Mr B and Ms H need to show me that firstly Ageas made a 
mistake  and Im not persuaded it did make a mistake specifically related to this case. But 
even if it had made mistakes. Mr B and Ms H need to show me that theyve suffered harm or 
loss as a result of this mistake.
I dont think Mr B and Ms H have done that. I appreciate Mr B and Ms H say theyve been 
told by plumbers and a specialist that their symptoms are typical of Legionnaires disease, 
but I havent seen any formal diagnosis of this. The only medical evidence Ive seen is a brief 
extract from comments made by Ms Hs doctor, which suggests she is possibly suffering 
from an allergy to something airborne. Ive seen no medical evidence about how the rest of 
Ms Hs family are affected. 
Tests have been carried out on the bath and no contaminants were found. That may have 
been because Mr B and Ms H disinfected the pipework the day before the test  but their 
specialist says other parts of the water system were also tested, and these hadnt been 
specifically cleaned. These were found to be safe.
I dont doubt that Mr B and Ms H have been ill, and Im very sorry about that. And I do 
understand this would be distressing given theyve had to leave their home for so long. But I 
cant see that Mr B and Ms H have shown me that there is a direct link between this and 
Ageas actions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman