DRN-4034365
The complaint
Mr R complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as BetterBorrow (BetterBorrow) is 
holding him liable for a loan which he says he did not apply for. He said he was the victim of 
a scam, and the scammer took out the loan without his knowledge. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 27 July 2022 BetterBorrow received and approved a loan application for £10,000 in 
Mr Rs name. The loan was to be repaid over 36 months, with monthly repayments of just 
under £357 a month. The funds were paid into Mr Rs personal current account and a direct 
debit was set up to receive loan repayments from the same account. 
On 28 August 2022 Mr R contacted BetterBorrow and said he hadnt taken out the loan. He 
explained that he had fallen victim to a crypto investment scam in July 2022. He explained 
he found an advert online for a crypto investment opportunity and decided to invest. He said 
the scammer led him to believe that after an initial successful investment (of just over 
£2,200) he had become a privileged customer and would receive a surprise £10,000 into 
his account. He transferred £9,729.10 of the loan funds, on instruction of the scammer, to 
another account in his name, before transferring it to a crypto exchange and ultimately into 
the control of the scammer. 
BetterBorrow investigated and recognised Mr R had been the victim of a scam.  They 
accepted he hadnt entered into the loan agreement with them. So, they said they would 
remove all reference to the loan from Mr Rs credit file and remove any interest and charges 
from the loan amount. But they explained they still intended to pursue him for repayment of 
the principal sum. It said that Mr R had provided the scammer with sufficient information 
about himself that they were able to successfully impersonate him in the application. It said 
he had also transferred the loan funds on in the hope of making a financial gain.  
Mr R complained and subsequently referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman. He 
disputed that he had provided the scammer with information to apply for the loan. He also 
said he didnt know the funds had come from a loan until the month after he received the 
funds. He said he was first alerted to it being a loan when he received notification of a direct 
debit coming out of his account, which he subsequently cancelled with his bank. 
 
Our Investigator thought that BetterBorrow had acted fairly in the circumstances. He thought 
that, on balance, Mr R ought to have been aware that the funds received into his account 
had come from a loan, as they showed as being received from BetterBorrow Loan on his 
bank statement. He also noted Mr R had utilised the loan funds when he transferred them 
from his account as part of the investment. As a result, he didnt recommend that 
BetterBorrow needed to do more to resolve the complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree with the Investigators conclusions. In summary he said: 
He disagreed that he should have realised the funds came from a loan. He said he 
only became aware of BetterBorrow the following month when he was notified of the 
direct debit. 
He could not remember what he saw when he first noticed the credit in his account. 
Things happened so quickly that he didnt have time to think about whether the funds 
were in fact a loan, and instead believed the scammer when they said it was a 
surprise for being a good customer. 
He had not utilised the loan funds and thought he was transferring the funds to the 
crypto exchange. 
BetterBorrow should take responsibility for scammers being able to use their services 
to take out loans against innocent people. 
Mr R asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the matter, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. And for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I understand that this will be extremely disappointing for Mr R. Theres no doubt 
that Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam, and I dont underestimate the financial and 
emotional impact that has resulted from the scam. While I dont want to add to Mr Rs 
worries, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I think BetterBorrow has acted fairly.
I think it would be helpful to firstly set out some things that are broadly agreed upon by both 
parties. Everyone agrees that Mr R has been the victim of a scam. It is accepted that Mr R 
himself didnt make the loan application (or have knowledge of it at the time) and that its 
most likely this was done by the scammer, with information theyd tricked Mr R into sharing 
when he believed he was completing an application as part of the investment. 
It is also agreed that BetterBorrow credited Mr Rs bank account with £10,000 on 
27 July 2022 and that this money was then paid out of that account by Mr R. 
Mr R had shared his details with the scammer - including information about where he worked 
and went to school - so when BetterBorrow processed the loan application, I dont think they 
reasonably could have known they werent dealing with the genuine Mr R at that time. 
In these circumstances I agree that it wouldnt be fair for BetterBorrow to hold Mr R liable for 
any interest or charges associated with the loan, as this formed part of an agreement he 
didnt enter into. BetterBorrow removing interest, fees and charges and removing the loan 
from his credit file is what Id expect it to do. So, all that remains to be decided is what ought 
to be done in relation to the £10,000 that BetterBorrow paid to Mr R.
As Ive mentioned, BetterBorrow did pay this money into Mr Rs account. So, I must decide if 
this is a case where the fair and reasonable outcome is for me to tell BetterBorrow that they 
cant pursue Mr R for this amount. I dont think it is, and Ill explain why.
Mr R has been asked for his recollection and understanding of why he received the credit 
into his account, and what he understood the onward payments related to, both by our 
Investigator and by BetterBorrow as part of their investigations. Mr R explained that he was aware that he would be receiving a surprise of £10,000 into his 
account, as his previous investments had been so successful, and hed been upgraded to a 
privileged customer. He was advised he needed to transfer the money on to the trading 
account for it to be traded at the weekend as part of a time-limited opportunity. He was also 
told he needed to complete an application as part of this trading opportunity  it was at this 
point Mr R was asked where he worked and where he grew up and went to school. He 
accepts in hindsight this was likely when the loan was applied for. 
Mr R said he panicked when the money came into his account. He told the scammer that he 
was worried that there were lots of scams going on, but that he was reassured when the 
scammer sent him a copy of his passport. Mr R said he asked if he could just keep the 
money instead of trading it, but he was advised against it. 
Mr R said he did not initially notice the money coming into his account, but the scammer had 
told him it was there, which made him then check his account. Mr R couldnt recall exactly 
what he saw at the time but said he may have clicked on the £10,000 transaction and may 
have seen BetterBorrow, but he did not see the word loan or realise that the funds related 
to a loan. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs bank statement when the loan funds arrived in his account. It 
appears as BetterBorrow Loan followed by a reference number that is shown alongside the 
loan amount. I dont think this is ambiguous and I think any reasonable person ought to have 
known that these funds were the proceeds of a loan. And I dont think its reasonable that 
Mr R didnt take any further steps to confirm the origin of the funds, prior to transferring the 
majority of them out of his account, particularly as he had himself expressed concern about 
receiving the funds and had identified the risk of scams. Mr R could have spoken to an 
independent third party, rather than the scammer (as they would naturally provide 
reassurances) before transferring the money from his account. Indeed I note that it was very 
shortly after Mr R transferred the money from his account that he did speak to friends about 
his suspicions and it was then that the scam unfolded. 
I also think Mr R should also have realised that the scammers suggestion he would receive 
a £10,000 payment was implausible  or at least too good to be true  given hed only 
invested just over £2,200 up to that point.  
In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to prevent 
BetterBorrow from seeking to recover the money they paid into Mr Rs account. It is clear 
Mr R utilised the funds in the hope of making a profit from the investment. I think he also 
ought reasonably to have realised that the funds were the proceeds of a loan. As such, Im 
not going to require BetterBorrow to do anything further to resolve this complaint.  
BetterBorrow has acknowledged that Mr R may struggle to repay the outstanding loan 
amount in one go and has offered to discuss repayment options with him. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman