DRN-3748788
The complaint
Mrs M complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined her 
claim under her home insurance policy following damage to her roof in a storm. 
What happened
Mrs M made a claim to Admiral following a storm. She said the storm damaged her roof 
which resulted in water leaking into the top room of the house. Mrs M said a roofer 
inspected the roof and advised that tiles had become displaced and the roof would need to 
be replaced. He adjusted some of the tiles to ensure no further loss or damage as per our 
obligations under the terms of our policy. At the request of Admiral, Mrs M submitted a 
quote from a roofer for the works to be carried out.
Admiral appointed a loss adjustor to review and validate the damage. Based upon the 
surveyors report Admiral decided to decline the claim. It said when the surveyor inspected 
the main roof he observed that the damage is as a result of a natural breakdown of 
materials, with its defects only highlighted by the bad weather. We therefore regret to advise 
you that there is no cover under your policy in respect of this claim. Admiral said the policy 
doesnt cover damage from gradual causes.
Mrs M has tried to access the surveyors report and has asked questions to understand what 
Admiral mean by a natural breakdown of materials, but she didnt get a satisfactory reply. 
Mrs M said our roof was not in a poor state of repair prior to the storm and weve not 
suffered previous tile displacement, damage or leaks due to bad weather prior to the storm. 
Weve no history of flooding prior to this. The damage to our roof and leaking into the top 
room was a result of the storm which are events out of our control. Mrs M was also unhappy 
with Admirals inefficiency with dealing with the claim.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Admiral had provided 
evidence that supported there had been gradual damage to the roof, which was an exclusion 
in the policy. So, she thought Admiral had been fair to decline the claim. However, she didnt 
think Admiral had handled the complaint efficiently, so she awarded £75 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs M disagreed with our investigator, so the case 
has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by considering whether I think Admiral were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Admiral has acknowledged that the weather at the time  winds of 66mph  did constitute 
storm conditions, so I dont need to consider this point any further. Ill consider the next 
question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Significant winds could result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing them to become 
dislodged. Therefore, as the damage observed was like this, I do think the damage claimed 
for is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. Therefore, I will consider the next 
question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have considered what Admiral said when it declined the claim. It said the wind had 
highlighted a pre-existing issue on the roof. I have checked the terms and conditions of the 
policy and it shows that gradual causes are excluded from the policy, which includes: any 
loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and tear, wet 
and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions, settlement, 
mildew, rust or corrosion.
Its Admirals obligation to prove the exclusion clause applied specifically in this case and I 
can see it has used the surveyors report along with a review of photographs to come to its 
conclusion. I think this is a reasonable approach. The surveyor thought the roof hadnt been 
replaced for a long time and he couldnt see any evidence of any recent maintenance to the 
roof. He said the nails have fatigued causing the wind to highlight the issue when they have 
blown out. If the wind had damaged a relatively new roof the slates would have snapped and 
not have blown out. 
Admirals in-house team confirmed on a relatively new roof the slates would have snapped 
and not have blown out this is due to the fixing of the nails being newer, they would have 
less weather erosion and potential wear compared to an older fixing. I appreciate Mrs M felt 
that Admirals reason for declining the claim had changed. However, I think it has reasonably 
explained how the two explanations are in fact linked, I just think it couldve explained this 
better to Mrs M to avoid any unnecessary confusion.
I can only make decisions based upon the evidence that is provided to me. Admiral have 
had a report produced by an expert which has led to them declining the claim. I think the 
conclusions it has made seem fair. The photographs provided dont appear to contradict 
what Admiral has said, so I think it has taken a reasonable approach.
I can see Mrs M had a quote to have a new roof  but I havent seen any expert reports / 
formal statements (e.g. from roofers) that show the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. I have also noted Mrs Ms house is one of several similar houses in the
road, but I havent seen evidence the same storm caused similar damage to other houses. 
I think Admiral has been fair in declining the claim. Its opinion is based on an expert report 
and I havent seen any evidence to contradict this.
Whilst I can understand why Mrs M thought the claim was excessively delayed, Im not convinced all these delays were avoidable. It took two months for Admiral to contact Mrs M 
to arrange the survey  however, some of this time was used in waiting for Mrs M to send 
photographs of the damage and a quote to have the work done. This is a normal part of any 
storm claim validation. Whilst, I know this was frustrating for Mrs M, I dont think its fair to say 
this was Admirals fault.
However, I do think Admiral couldve managed the communication better when it informed 
Mrs M that the claim would be declined. I dont think it was easy for Mrs M to understand the 
reasoning for this. Admiral has now clarified this, but I think the initial confusion has caused 
some distress whilst Mrs M sought a proper explanation and it delayed her been able to 
instruct her own contractors to carry out the repairs to the damage caused. Therefore, I 
award £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay £75 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman