DRN-1713664
The complaint
Miss O has complained Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market, is holding her liable for 
a loan which she never applied for.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss O contacted Quid Market after being contacted by a company asking for 
repayment of another loan. She told them shed not taken out a loan for £450 in March 2019. 
This agreement, along with seven other loan applications, had been completed by her ex-
boyfriend. She didnt believe a loan should have been granted as some of the information 
provided  including email and phone details  were not hers. She was also concerned this 
loan had been granted around the same time as so many others.
After discussion Quid Market offered to waive all interest payments on the loan. They also 
agreed to remove the loan from Miss Os credit record when the debt had been paid.
Miss O brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She said this and other loans had 
been taken out without her consent. Although the money had gone into her bank account 
(held with H), she said shed understood from her ex-partner that hed taken out the loans 
himself in his own name. After all the loans were paid, shed transferred the money to him so 
had never had any benefit of the money.
After a detailed review of what had gone on, our investigator told Quid Market as Miss O 
hadnt applied for the loan or benefitted from the loan, he was asking them to stop pursuing 
her for the loan.
Quid Market werent satisfied with this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider 
Miss Os complaint. They said they were still willing to waive interest but felt they could 
continue to hold Miss O liable for the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres only one real issue at the heart of this complaint. If Miss O didnt complete the loan 
application or benefit from the £450 paid into her account, can Quid Market still hold her 
liable? 
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered Miss Os correspondence to Quid Market. Ive 
also reviewed evidence from Quid Market including details of the loan application and where 
they paid the money to. Weve also got evidence from Miss Os bank, H, providing 
statements that cover the period of February and March 2019 when so many loans were 
taken out in her name. Weve also seen a letter written by her ex-partner confirming hed 
taken out all of the loans in her name.
Ive considered the following issues:
The application for this loan was made using Miss Os genuine bank details (which 
Quid Market also checked). 
The email address and mobile phone details used in the application dont match 
those that Miss O has used in her correspondence with this service. Miss O has 
confirmed the phone details actually belonged to her ex-partner.
These facts alone dont mean that Miss O didnt apply for the loans but do indicate this was 
done by someone who had access to enough information about her; and set these up 
without wanting to alert her to what was going on. This could be seen to suggest she wasnt 
involved with what happened.
Over a period from 22 February to 12 March 2019, there were loan credits to Miss Os bank 
account which amounted to more than £3,430. During the same period all this money was 
transferred to her ex-partner. 
Ive considered Miss Os point that this all took place without her knowledge. I initially found 
this hard to believe. Partly as there were a very large number of loans opened in her name 
using her home address. So I found it odd that Miss O didnt start to appear concerned when 
lots of loan correspondence started to arrive at her address. 
However its clear she was duped by her boyfriend at the time who it seems was doing all he 
could to hide what was going on. Im also aware that Quid Market didnt send any postal 
confirmation about their loan, and this may well have been the case for the other loans.
Overall and on balance I believe Miss O didnt apply for this loan. As Quid Market has no 
contractual agreement with her and I cant see that Miss O benefitted from the funds, they 
cant ask her to repay the money or lodge any data about this agreement on her credit 
record. They are of course free to take whatever action they feel is appropriate towards 
Miss Os ex-boyfriend who I believe was involved with the loan applications and the use of 
the money.
Although a direct debit was set up to repay this loan, this was done on another account. No 
payment was made towards this loan by Miss O. 
Putting things right
On the basis Ive decided Miss O didnt take out this loan, or benefit from it, I will be asking 
Quid Market to clear any information from Miss Os credit record about this loan and stop 
asking her to repay any debt.
It appears that Quid Market accepted early on that Miss O hadnt taken out the loan  
otherwise I cant see why they would have volunteered to waive interest payments. As they 
were also aware Miss O didnt benefit from the loan money, Im surprised Quid Market felt it 
was fair and reasonable to continue to say they believed she was liable for repayment. This 
isnt the case and Id have expected them to know this.
I believe this must have added to the emotional distress Miss O has gone through during an 
elongated period. I think its fair and reasonable Quid Market pay her £150 in compensation 
for the trouble caused.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Stagemount Limited, trading as 
Quid Market, to:
Stop pursuing Miss O for repayment of a loan as she didnt apply for it; 
Remove any information from her credit record relating to this loan; and
Pay Miss O £150 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman