DRN-4300718
The complaint
Mr W said he planned the sale of his Buy To Let (BTL) property around what Barclays 
Bank UK PLC told him about his mortgage. It said there was no ERC payable, but then at 
the last minute before his sale, it told him he had to pay an ERC after all, of over £4,000.
What happened
Mr W said he had decided to sell his BTL property, so his broker asked Barclays about 
redeeming the mortgage. Barclays told his broker there was no ERC payable on the 
mortgage, and Mr W went ahead with the sale. But on the day he was due to complete, 
Barclays finally supplied a redemption statement, which showed he was being charged an 
ERC after all. Mr W said he had no choice then but to pay this. But he said because 
Barclays had wrongly advised him, he thought it should pay back the ERC it had charged.
Barclays wrote to Mr W in response to his complaint, saying it couldnt confirm the broker
had been wrongly advised. And the ERC had been charged correctly, so Barclays wouldnt
pay it back. Barclays did accept it had provided some poor service, and it offered Mr W £50
to say sorry for that.
Mr W said if he hadnt been misinformed, he thought he could have delayed completion of
this sale until the ERC was no longer payable.
When this case came to our service, Barclays had seen the information Mr W had shared
with us, showing Barclays did tell his broker there was no ERC payable on this mortgage.
Barclays said that was wrong, and it didnt know why Mr Ws broker had been told that. But it
said the original mortgage offer did make clear Mr W had to pay an ERC, so although it said
there had been an error in what Mr Ws broker was told, there were other documents which
had been provided to Mr W which showed an ERC was payable.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said Barclays didnt
have to pay back the ERC it had charged, because it wasnt a mistake to charge that. The
ERC was payable at the time, under the terms of Mr Ws mortgage offer. But she said
Barclays had made a mistake in telling Mr Ws broker there was no ERC on this mortgage,
and she thought it should pay £200 in compensation to make up for that.
Our investigator didnt think it was likely Mr W could have delayed the sale of his property by 
three months, until the ERC was no longer payable. But Mr W replied, to say hed worked 
very hard to make this sale happen quickly  it was completed a little under two months after 
the price was agreed. He said his estate agent told him sales usually take about twice as 
long as this, so Mr W thought he could have delayed a further two months. And he said the 
ERC came off the mortgage at the start of December 2022, not the end of December, so a 
delay of two months would have been long enough to sell without an ERC being payable.
Our investigator said she thought property transactions usually take between six and eight
weeks, so Mr Ws sale took an average amount of time. And she said it was hard to tell now
what might have happened if Mr W had delayed the sale. She didnt feel she could
reasonably tell Barclays to make a refund in this case.
Mr W didnt agree. He stressed hed been given incorrect information by Barclays, and said
although the original mortgage offer, issued two years earlier, would have mentioned the
ERC, he still thought it was reasonable for him to have relied on the more recent guidance
and written confirmation from Barclays that there was no ERC due.
Mr W said it was debatable whether or not the completion of this sale could have happened
in December. But he thought, based on his experience of this sale and the feedback from his
estate agent, that it could have been. And he said because of the incorrect information from
Barclays, he wasnt able to make an informed decision about the timing of the sale, so wed
never know for sure.
Mr W said hed settle for a 50/50 split, with half the ERC being refunded. But our investigator
didnt change her mind. As no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a
final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Its now common ground that Mr W was wrongly advised there was no ERC payable on 
his BTL mortgage, when he was considering selling the property. And because Barclays
appears to have taken a little time to issue a redemption statement, Mr W only 
discovered there was an ERC, of well over £4,000, on the day his sale was due to 
complete. I dont think its likely Mr W had any choice then, but to go ahead with his 
sale, and pay the ERC.
But Mr W did have some choices earlier. He had choices about when he would sell the
property. And Ive reached a different conclusion in this complaint to our investigator, on
whether its likely Mr W could have delayed his sale until after the ERC had ceased to 
be payable on his mortgage.
Mr W told us hed agreed a price in early August, his property then sold in late 
September. His estate agent told him that was a quick sale, and I think its reasonable to 
conclude that many sales do take rather longer. It also appears that Mr W was selling a 
leasehold property, where I understand conveyancing can be more complex. So, whilst 
its always difficult to predict what could, hypothetically, have happened, I think, on 
balance, in the circumstances of this case, it is more likely than not that Mr W would 
have been able to agree a price in early August, then sell his property on 4 December, 
the day after the ERC on his mortgage ended. And I think Mr W is likely to have sought 
to do this, if hed been warned about the ERC.
That doesnt mean Mr W should just receive a refund of all the money he paid for an 
ERC, because thats not the position Mr W would have been in, if hed successfully 
delayed his sale until 4 December. If Mr W had been successful in delaying his sale, he 
would not have needed to pay the ERC. But he would have needed to pay a little over 
two months of additional interest on his interest-only mortgage.
So I think Barclays should now rework Mr Ws completion statement, to show 
completion on 4 December 2022 instead of 30 September. And it should refund Mr W 
any money hes overpaid, based on that recalculation. Barclays should add interest at 
8% simple on any overpayment Mr W has made, calculated from the date of the 
overpayment to the date the refund is made.I think Barclays has also provided Mr W with poor service in this case, both because it 
gave him wrong information and because it also seems to have failed to provide a 
redemption statement until the day of completion, leaving Mr W with few options. For 
those reasons, I think Barclays should pay Mr W a total of £200 in compensation. 
Barclays has already offered Mr W £50 for this complaint. It doesnt look as if thats 
been paid, but in case it has, Ill allow Barclays to count towards my award, any 
payment it has already made to Mr W for this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays asked our service for a short extension to respond to the above decision. That time 
has now passed, and no reply has been received by our service. I think its now appropriate 
to bring this case to a close.
Mr W said he was happy with the provisional decision, and he wanted to accept it. He said 
that Barclays had already paid him £50 in compensation. My decision allows Barclays to 
take this into account when paying the award Im making. Mr W said he would like a revised 
completion statement from Barclays. He also wanted a certificate showing how much tax 
Barclays was deducting from the 8% simple interest Id included in the award.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must rework Mr Ws mortgage, so that it was 
redeemed on 4 December 2022, instead of 30 September 2022.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr W interest at 8% simple on any overpayment he has
made, calculated from the date of the overpayment to the date the refund is made.
HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if
he asks for one.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay Mr W a total of £200 in compensation. Barclays
Bank UK PLC can count towards that amount, any payment it has already made to Mr W for
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman