DRN-2867844
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc treated him unfairly following its widespread 
system issues in 2018.
What happened
From around April 2018 TSB experienced widespread technical issues following a system 
upgrade. These issues were widely reported in the media at the time and caused 
problems for many of TSBs customers. Mr M was one such customer. He says he was 
locked out of his online account for several days and wasnt able to check his account 
status. He says that caused him considerable worry  particularly in light of the panic that 
was ongoing at the time. Mr M says he complained to TSB (as did his wife), using its 
online complaints form, but he didnt hear anything more, even though his wife received 
compensation.
Mr M contacted TSB again around December 2019 and asked it to look into his concerns. 
It said it had no record of receiving his original complaint, or of him having followed things 
up sooner. So, it asked Mr M to send in evidence of his previous complaint. It didnt agree 
with Mr M that a fixed amount of compensation per account (equivalent to what his wife 
received) was warranted. It said due to the passage of time since the issues occurred, it 
wasnt paying compensation in the same way as it had before. However, it apologised to 
Mr M for any inconvenience caused by its system issues in 2018 and paid him £25 
compensation.
Mr M wasnt happy with TSBs response, so he contacted it again later in December 2019. 
He said hed suffered exactly the same problems over the same period as his wife, yet 
TSB thought compensation (of £150) was justified in her case. And he suspected TSB had 
no record of his previous complaint as its systems were in a shambles at the time. Mr M 
thought it unreasonable for TSB to ask him to send evidence of his original complaint 
when it was fully aware that once submitted using its online complaints form, the email 
disappears not leaving a trace of evidence for the customer. Mr M referred to a review 
that TSB had conducted since, the aim of which was to ensure all customers from this 
period were treated consistently and fairly. He asked TSB to explain how it was consistent 
and fair to pay compensation to his wife, but not to him. TSB then sent a similar response 
to its previous one.
The following month Mr M complained to us and raised similar issues to those raised with 
TSB. One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think TSB needed to do 
anything more. He said he thought TSBs compensation offer of £25 was fair in these 
particular circumstances. Not least because the evidence showed that Mr M was able to 
carry out his usual transactions (and didnt typically use the account on a day to day 
basis), so he thought the impact of not having system access was probably minimal for 
Mr M. The investigator couldnt safely say TSB received and then lost Mr Ms complaint 
based on the evidence hed seen. And, although Mr M had described some emotional 
distress (which TSB didnt seem to be aware of at the time), the investigator didnt think 
TSBs error was so significant to warrant further compensation.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He suggested that the investigator 
should seek evidence of his wifes account (which she was happy to authorise) to 
demonstrate that TSB had treated him unfairly and had been inconsistent in its 
approach. Mr M asked an Ombudsman to review his complaint, so the matters been 
passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I sent Mr M and TSB my provisional decision on 8 June 2021. Ive included the relevant 
extracts from my findings below.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms made a number of comments in support of his complaint and to explain why he 
didnt accept our investigators assessment. Given what Mr M said, I think its important to 
say here that my role is not to act as a consumer champion, nor is it to side with the 
business complained about. Its for me to give an independent and impartial view about 
TSBs handling of things. And if things have gone wrong, to say whether it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
Having considered Mr Ms complaint, Im not persuaded that TSB has treated him fairly 
or that it has done enough to put things right. So, Im intending to uphold his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Mr M maintains that he sent in a complaint using the online form shortly after the system 
problems arose. And he says he did so around the same time as his wife who was 
affected by the system issues in a similar way. It seems entirely plausible to me that Mr M 
and his wife would send complaints around the same time. Although its not clear why 
TSB received one but not the other.
TSB said that Mr M could have followed things up sooner. Mr M initially told TSB he 
expected it to get in touch with him once all of the system issues were sorted out. But he 
now accepts, with hindsight, he should probably have followed things up sooner. I can see 
why TSB might have expected to deal with all queries and complaints to do with its 2018 
system issues in the months that followed. But, Im not aware of a specific timeframe 
within which TSB customers had to submit complaints about the 2018 system issues. Or a 
rule that prevented TSB from looking into things if a complaint was received at a later 
date. And, our rules (known as the DISP rules) allowed Mr M up to six years after the 
event to bring a complaint to our service. Hes since made his complaint in good time for 
the purposes of satisfying our rules.
So, given all of this, I dont think it was fair for TSB to say it wouldnt look into things unless 
Mr M could evidence that hed made a complaint in 2018. And, irrespective of whether 
TSB received Mr Ms complaint in 2018 or not, what it should have done in 2019 (when it 
did receive his complaint), was to fully review it and respond appropriately. And that would 
include looking at the impact of what happened in 2018 on Mr M as it had done for other 
customers affected by the system issues. But TSB doesnt appear to have done that. So, 
as things stand, Im not persuaded its treated Mr M consistently and fairly in line with its 
treatment of other customers. And thats clearly been a source of great frustration for Mr 
M.
When responding to our service TSB said it was possible Mr M couldnt access his 
accounts for some time between 22 April and 2 May. But it thought the impact on him 
was likely to have been minimal owing to the way in which he used his account and 
because he was able to make his usual online payments on time. Its also pointed out that 
Mr M didnt mention anything about the worry it caused him when he got in touch with it in 
2019. And it says that none of the media coverage at the time indicated that customers 
had lost money. So, it seems to be suggesting there was no reason for Mr M to be 
concerned about not being able to access his accounts.In contrast, Mr M said that being without system access for several days caused him 
considerable worry, as he wasnt sure what was going on with his account. I can 
appreciate that. Having thought carefully about this, I dont think its reasonable for TSB to 
suggest that, just because there were no press reports about money going astray, a 
customer shouldnt still worry about the possibility of that having happened. Nor do I think 
its reasonable for TSB to imply that Mr M wasnt caused the kind of worry he later 
described, just because he hadnt mentioned it in his initial contact with TSB. I accept Mr 
Ms evidence that the system problems caused him worry and I think its entirely likely that 
worry would have extended beyond whether he could make payments on time or not. So, 
Im not persuaded that TSBs response was reasonable in these particular circumstances. 
And I don't think £25 compensation is enough to address the impact that the system 
issues had on Mr M. So, Im intending to say that TSB should pay Mr M further 
compensation of £125.
Mr Ms also made some wider points, including that TSB not only failed to include his case 
in the review it conducted in 2019, but he says it kept the terms of the review quiet. Mr Ms 
concerned that other affected customers may not be in a position to make their voices 
known. Ive already said that I dont think TSBs handling of Mr Ms concerns was 
consistent with how it appears to have treated other customers. So, as Ive indicated, I 
wasnt persuaded that TSB handled Mr Ms case fairly or reasonably. However, were not 
the industry regulator, and my role here is limited to looking into Mr Ms specific complaint. 
So, its not for me to comment on wider issues  including the way TSB went about its 
review and the extent to which it let affected customers know about it. Its also not my 
place to comment on the adequacy of TSBs complaints process. Theyd be matters for 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to consider.
Mr M also seems to think TSB tried to put him off complaining to this service by saying he 
only had six months in which to do so. The six-month time limit that TSBs referring to is 
set out in our rules for making complaints to this service. So, this isnt a timeframe that 
TSB has set and its required to let customers know about the time-limit when it responds 
to complaints. I hope that gives Mr M additional context and helps to reassure him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
TSB asked me to reconsider my proposed award and made a number of detailed 
comments in support of its position. Amongst other things, it said:
As it received Mr Ms wifes complaint in 2018 (and complaints from many other 
customers), it thought it more likely than not that Mr M didnt make his own 
complaint in 2018;
It said (in line with guidance developed with the FCA) it paid a greater amount of 
compensation to those customers who had to wait longer to have their complaint 
resolved between April 2018 and March 2019. But, as it didnt think Mr M had 
made a complaint before December 2019 and he hadnt had to wait longer for his 
complaint to be dealt with, it had applied its usual levels of redress; 
It hadnt intended to suggest to us that there was no reason for Mr M to be 
concerned about not being able to access his account. And it said it had already 
apologised for any inconvenience caused to Mr M and had given him £25 
compensation. It said its comment was simply intended to explain how it had 
arrived at its compensation figure  particularly as, due to the passage of time, it 
couldnt actually check how many times Mr M attempted to log into his online 
account during the period of system issues  if at all. But it is aware that Mr M was able to access his online account by 2 May, so it thinks it likely he was less 
impacted by the problems than others.  
It said it doesnt doubt that Mr M was concerned by the system issues. But its 
pointed out that our service wouldnt usually award redress to cover distress about 
what might have happened, only what did happen.
And as it was likely Mr M couldnt use his account for a maximum of ten days and 
experienced no financial loss or embarrassment it made a compensation award 
at the lower end of its guidelines.
Whilst there was no set amount of compensation per account, if a customer was 
not affected, or chose not to complain, they didnt receive a payment of redress
My findings
Ive carefully considered TSBs detailed response. And having done so, Im not 
persuaded to change what I said in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I dont agree with TSB that its more likely Mr M didnt complain in 2018 around the same 
time as his wife. As I said in my provisional decision, I thought it was entirely plausible 
that Mr M and his wife would complain around the same time given that they were both 
affected by the same system issues, although I couldnt say why TSB received one 
complaint but not the other. I remain of that view  particularly as TSB hasnt given me 
any new evidence or convincing arguments to persuade me otherwise.
I accept the point TSB makes about there being no financial loss or embarrassment 
caused to Mr M. And I agree that considering whether there had been such a loss would 
have been one of the factors for TSB to consider when deciding whether to award 
redress. But its not the only consideration. And I think TSB has missed the point 
somewhat about why I said I was intending to award compensation in Mr Ms particular 
circumstances.
I pointed out to TSB that the impact for Mr M extended beyond whether he could make 
payments on time. There was the worry about not knowing what was happening with his 
accounts. And whilst TSB accepts that, it maintains that compensation at the lower end of 
the scale is warranted, particularly because Mr M didnt suffer an actual financial loss. 
I dont agree with TSBs logic. While Mr M now knows he didnt suffer a financial loss, that 
wasn't the case at the time when he wasnt able to access his accounts. So, that left him 
with the worry of not knowing whether or not he was suffering any loss and the system 
failures denied him the opportunity to check. And I dont agree with TSB about the fact 
that it was a perceived worry as opposed to an actual one. TSBs response to my 
provisional decision doesnt fairly recognise that. It follows that I still dont think TSB has 
responded fairly and reasonably in Mr Ms case or fully recognised the impact of the 
system issues on him. To recognise that now, TSB needs to pay compensation of £125 
to Mr M in respect of the worry and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And I now direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr M compensation of £125 
for the reasons Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 Amanda Scott
Ombudsman