DRN-1192491
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains about some money that she lost in a branch of Bank of Scotland plc. She 
wants Bank of Scotland to pay her back.
What happened
Mrs D told us she went to her local branch of Bank of Scotland to pay in some money. She 
used the paying in machine, but it only deposited £260 because it wasnt working properly. 
She then went to the counter to deposit money, but the agent only counted £360. 
Mrs D said she had more money than this, and the machine must have kept £380. She 
wanted Bank of Scotland to pay that back. 
Bank of Scotland told us Mrs D had paid in a total of £620. It received £200 and £60 through 
the automated paying in machine, and £360 paid over the counter. 
The branch manager said the tills had been checked. The till Mrs D used had balanced. A 
different one was £10 over, but that wasnt the one Mrs D had used. 
The CCTV had also been checked. After Mrs D used the paying in machine, no one else 
used it for a while. So if the machine had rejected some money and tried to return it to Mrs 
D, it wouldve retained it, after that length of time. But the machine was checked, and it 
balanced correctly. 
The CCTV unfortunately didnt show how much money Mrs D had in her hand when she was 
in the branch. 
Our investigator thought Bank of Scotland had acted reasonably in obtaining balance 
information for the machines and their counters, getting a statement from the bank manager 
and reviewing the CCTV. He said that if Mrs D had lost the money in the machine or while it 
was being counted by a cashier, he wouldve expected a big difference in the cash balancing 
information. And there wasnt any evidence to confirm that Mrs D had £1,000 when she went 
into the branch.
So our investigator thought Bank of Scotland hadnt done anything wrong. And he said that 
on the balance of probabilities, he didnt think the amount was lost in the branch.
Mrs D was unhappy with this decision, and wanted an ombudsman to review her case. So it 
was passed to me for a final decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mrs Ds statements, and she usually deposits roughly £1,000. I think that tends 
to support what shes said about having more money than was deposited on the day. But 
unfortunately that doesnt mean that Im able to conclude that Mrs D lost this money in the 
branch.
Like our investigator, I think that Bank of Scotland has taken reasonable steps to check 
whether any of Mrs Ds money could have been retained within the branch. Three people 
checked the tills, including the branch manager. 
Mrs D thought someone could have been loitering around the paying in machine after she 
used it. But the manager also checked the CCTV, and no one used that machine for some 
time after Mrs D stepped away from it. So it doesnt seem likely that the machine rejected 
some of Mrs Ds notes and someone else picked them up. 
If there had been a mistake at the tills, or with the paying in machine, then I wouldve 
expected there to be extra money which wasnt accounted for, when these were checked. 
But they were checked carefully. And we know that there wasnt anything like the amount 
Mrs D told us she lost. 
There wasnt any money left in the paying in machine that wasnt accounted for. There was 
only £10 which wasnt accounted for in one of the tills, but that wasnt the till Mrs D used. 
I have to balance up the evidence which is available to me in this case. Ive done so, and, 
like our investigator, I dont think that Im able to decide, on the balance of probabilities, that 
this money was lost in the branch. 
I think Bank of Scotland has taken Mrs Ds concerns seriously. So I dont think it has to do 
any more now.
I realise just how disappointed Mrs D will be, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
think that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman