DRN-3714689
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Nationwide Building Society closed his account after he made a complaint 
abut the speed of a refund under a visa dispute claim.
What happened
Mr C complained to Nationwide when he didnt receive an immediate refund after he made a 
claim under the visa dispute scheme. When Nationwide sent its final response letter it 
explained, as it had at the time he called to make the claim, that as his claim fell into the 
Non-payment Service Regulation category the time to refund is up to 3 days. Mr Cs refund 
was made within this timescale. Mr C was also unhappy with the agents attitude on the call, 
Nationwide disagreed it was anything other than polite and professional.
As part of its final response Nationwide then gave Mr C 60 days notice that it was closing 
his three accounts. This was not because of the complaint hed made about the refund. 
Rather it said it could see he was unhappy with the service it offered and concluded the 
relationship had broken down. It said it had already warned Mr C in response to four other 
complaints hed made that it was unhappy with how he interacted with its staff, and under its 
terms and conditions it could close his accounts. 
Mr C came to our service saying this decision was disproportionate and he asked for his 
account to be re-instated. He believes we committed to do this but then failed to. This issue 
is the subject of a separate service complaint and will not be addressed in this decision. The 
scope of this complaint is the merits of Mr Cs complaint against Nationwide.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Nationwide was entitled to close 
Mr Cs account(s) as it had under section 74 of the terms. It gave the required notice. He had 
asked Nationwide if it would consider re-opening Mr Cs account, but it would not.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr C asked for and ombudsmans review. He said 
Nationwide is hiding facts (about previous issues with a £500 transaction) and is now saying 
he was using the account as a business account which is not true. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about all the points Mr C has made during the investigation. In 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will 
comment here on the points I find to be material to the outcome of his complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Under the terms and conditions of its accounts Nationwide is entitled to withdraw its services
from accountholders, subject to giving not less than two months notice. It did that here. It 
explained to Mr C that it felt the relationship had broken down. It had previously warned Mr C 
about how it expected its staff to be treated. Overall, I think it followed a reasonable course 
of action in this case.
To reach this conclusion I have reviewed Nationwides internal policy for managing
relationships where there are repeat complaints. I have done this to check that it applied its
internal guidelines in a fair and consistent way. This policy sets out that once a member
raises more than a certain number of complaints in a set period of time the society must
investigate to understand how best to move forward. It sets out the factors it must consider
including errors it has made, any member vulnerabilities and whether the complaints could
be seen as frivolous or vexatious. At times, the policy sets out, it might decide to end a
relationship if it believes it cannot meet a members expectations in terms of either the
products or services it offers. Prior to doing this it will let a member know that it asks for a
reasonable level of tolerance to be kept in relation to the products and services it provides.
In the circumstances of this case I find it was, on balance, fair and reasonable for Nationwide
to conclude that it could not provide Mr C with the service he sought. And that this
had led to a breakdown in the relationship such that it would not be sustainable ongoing. I
understand that this frustrated Mr C. And I want to be clear my finding does not
undermine the fact Mr C had the right to complain, although I note none of the five 
complaints he made between August 2021 and May 2022 were upheld. It instead recognises 
the state of the relationship.
Nationwide had included requests, in response to Mr Cs previous complaints, for a
reasonable level of expectation and tolerance towards its products and services, prior to 
deciding to exit the relationship. So I think it had made fair attempt to warn Mr C that it had 
concerns about the state of the relationship.
I have read transcripts from the three calls between the parties on 7 May 2022 when Mr C 
was requesting his refund. Mr C was clearly very unhappy when Nationwide was telling him 
about the three-day timeline and at times became abusive and threatening, but the agents 
remained suitably professional throughout the calls.
It follows I think Nationwides decision to end its relationship with Mr C was fair and 
reasonable and I am not instructing it to take any further action.
I am not commenting on Mr Cs rebuttal that he never used the account for business 
purposes as even if he didnt  and he had previously told Nationwide he needed the 
account to run his business -  this would not change my conclusion for the reasons set out 
above. 
Similarly, the problems he has described about the £500 payment (that Mr C thinks 
Nationwide is covering up by saying this was not the reason for the closure and was not the 
subject of a prior complaint) are not something I need to make a finding on. This is because 
as I am satisfied Nationwide made a fair decision when it closed Mr Cs account(s) based on 
the status of the parties relationship.
My final decision
It follows I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman