DRN-4202402
The complaint
Miss F complains that TM Advances Limited was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Miss F had one loan from TM Advances in June 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue
1 22 Mar 2021 £1,500 30m £159 23 Sep 2023
Miss F says that, at the time of the lending, she was struggling to pay priority bills and had a 
very poor credit history. She says shed maximised her borrowing on her credit cards and 
overdraft and the loan repayments caused her to have to borrow again. She says TM 
Advances was not helpful when she told it she was in financial difficulties, and its affected 
her health and wellbeing.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She considered TM 
Advances carried out proportionate checks, but that the available information indicated the 
repayments were likely to be unsustainable to Miss F. She recommended that interest 
should be refunded on the loan, with 8% added, and that any negative information should be 
removed from Miss Fs credit file.
TM Advances responded to say, in summary, that Miss F had a large amount of disposable 
income, her account showed no returned direct debits, and she was within her overdraft 
limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Fs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Fs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did TM Advances make a fair lending decision?
Did TM Advances act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Miss F applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show TM Advances asked about her 
financial circumstances, checked her credit file and verified her income. I can also see that 
TM Advances had access to Miss Fs bank account, so Im satisfied it completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks.
However, I dont consider TM Advances made a reasonable lending decision when it 
approved Miss Fs loan application. I say that because:
The loan was for a period of 30 months and TM Advances needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Although Miss Fs credit check showed no adverse information, I can see from the 
bank statements provided by TM Advances that she took out seven short-term loans 
totalling £2,845 in the two months before the loan  four of these loans were in March 
2021, with two being the day before the TM Advances loan;
Based on Miss Fs income and regular expenditure, I find she had insufficient 
disposable income to make the repayments:
oShe had verified income, including benefits, of £4,500 per month and regular 
payments of rent (£2,300), car loan (£452) and tax (£200);
oCouncil tax and utilities were about £450 with TV and phone costs of around 
£150;
oInsurance and other credit costs were £220 with a further £300 spend on 
childcare;
This gave Miss F a disposable income of around £430, but I can see she also spent 
roughly £600 on food and travel each month.
Although I acknowledge TM Advances says there were no returned payments on her 
bank account, I can see a number of payments that were re-credited the same day 
and subsequently paid a few days later.
I accept that Miss F told TM Advances that her partner contributed £1,500 per month in 
cash, but, with the exception of one cash deposit of £235 in January 2021, I have seen no 
evidence that money contributed to the regular payments Miss F made from her bank 
account. Miss F also made regular transfers from a savings account, totalling just over £500, 
in early 2021, but no further transfers were received in the month before the loan.
Miss F told TM Advances the loan was for vet bills and to repay the short-term loans but 
given she had repaid less than £1,000 of the £2,845 of short-term borrowing, she would still 
have had significant outstanding debts, especially once the interest due was included.
In summary, I find Miss F was showing clear signs that she was already struggling financially 
and that it was irresponsible to lend her a further £1,500. Indeed, I note that Miss F began to 
have repayments returned shortly after taking out the loan and, in May 2021, she used her 
credit card facility for cash advances.
So, based on all the evidence, I find TM Advances did not make a fair lending decision for 
the loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. TM Advances Limited should: 
Add up the total amount of money Miss F received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss F made should be deducted from this amount.
oIf this results in Miss F having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then TM Advances should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss F;
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Fs credit file regarding the 
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to take off tax from this interest. TM 
Advances must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman