DRN-3879861
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr S in his capacity as director of a limited company I will refer 
to as DP. The complaint is that, because of delays by Lloyds Bank PLC in releasing a 
commercial loan to DP, Mr S lost the opportunity to purchase a property at auction. Mr S is 
claiming a loss of potential profit to him of between £1.2 and £1.4 million.
Mr S is also unhappy that Lloyds asked DP to reduce outstanding balanced on the loan 
facility by £100,000, which he says is unfair.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, Lloyds has already accepted it 
made an error, so I dont need to examine what went wrong or why  all I need to determine 
is what compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Finally, our decisions 
are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to DP or Mr S 
being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
The complaint is rather more simple than it first appears. Briefly, DP was set up in 2017 with 
Mr S and his son as directors. They also operated a separate enterprise, and had traded as 
such (albeit part-time) since the early 2000s, initially just in Mr Ss name as a sole trader, 
with his son later joining him in a partnership. 
In September 2020 DP applied for a commercial loan from Lloyds. The company borrowed 
just under £297,000 from Lloyds over a term of 15 years. The loan was secured by:
a legal charge over an unencumbered commercial property which I will call 132DR 
owned by DP; 
a personal guarantee from Mr S and his son (who is also a director); and 
an unlimited debenture given by the company. 
The purpose of the loan was to pay back money loaned to DP by the partnership which DP 
had used to purchase132DR.
The debenture is dated 15 December 2020 and was registered at Companies House the 
same day. The legal charge is dated 24 February 2021 and was registered at Companies 
House on 15 March 2021. 
For their partnership, Mr S had an interest-only loan with Lloyds of just over £400,000, taken 
out in 2007 (before the son was part of the business), and which was due for repayment in 
March 2022. This was secured over a property which I will call 111DR. The partnership is a 
separate trading entity from DP, which is a legal entity in its own right. However, for the 
purposes of lending and commercial banking, Lloyds took an overview of both the 
partnership and company finances as a whole.
Mr S complained to Lloyds about the delay in releasing the £297,000 funds to DP. In its final 
response letter dated 16 March 2021, Lloyds acknowledged that there had been some 
delay, primarily because the bank hadnt made it clear at the outset that it required a 
personal guarantee from the directors. Lloyds paid compensation of £350 for this. 
Lloyds noted that Mr S had told the bank that, because of the delay, he had lost the benefit 
of tax relief on the loan interest. Mr S also said that he was paying a higher rate of interest 
on borrowing elsewhere. Mr S had also told Lloyds that his son was looking to buy another 
property and so had needed DP to repay a directors loan he (the son) had made to DP.
Following further discussion with Mr S, in a second final response letter dated 10 August 
2021, Lloyds noted that Mr Ss son had been able to raise funds elsewhere and had, in fact, 
purchased the property hed been intending to buy. The bank noted that the purpose of the 
loan had therefore changed, without Lloyds being aware of this, from repayment of the sons 
directors loan to Mr S using the funds towards financing the purchase of another auction 
property for the partnership, which I will call 453BR.
After an annual review in June 2021, Lloyds took the decision to reduce the companys 
credit limit to £200,000 and so required DP to repay almost £100,000. The rationale behind 
this was because the £400,000 loan (taken out when Mr S was a sole trader) which was 
interest-only, was reaching the end of its term (March 2022) and needed to be repaid. Mr S 
explained to Lloyds that he had no way of repaying the loan and hadnt been able to 
re-finance it elsewhere. Lloyds agreed to extend the repayment date to September 2022.
(A complaint has been brought to us about that loan, which is that it should have reverted to 
capital repayment after the first year on interest-only period, but it did not. The complaint is 
not yet resolved at our service.)
But Lloyds concern was that if Mr S had to sell 111DR in order to repay the £400,000 loan, 
or refinance it to another lender, it would reduce the overall security Lloyds had across both 
the partnership and limited company borrowings. Consequently, there was an impact on DP 
which Lloyds had to consider. Lloyds gave DP the option either of reducing the loan to 
£200,000 or providing additional security.
Mr S was very unhappy about this and raised a complaint with us, as he thought the decision 
to insist DP reduce its borrowings was unfair.
An investigator looked at what happened. He upheld the complaint, saying that DP had lost 
the opportunity to bid in the auction. He wasnt persuaded, however, that success at an 
auction could be taken as a given.
Nevertheless, the investigator said Lloyds should compensate Mr S for his documented 
losses, to cover such things as the cost of preparation for the auction, any concurrent 
financing that might have been taken out to be used alongside the Lloyds loan or any 
costs/losses that would not have been incurred if DP hadnt relied on the loan to try to buy 
the property. The investigator thought Lloyds should pay interest at 8% simple per annum on 
these losses and expenses.
In relation to the request for a reduction in the facility, the investigator didnt think Lloyds had 
acted fairly when it asked DP to reduce the loan facility by £100,000. He thought Lloyds 
should honour the original repayment schedule as provided for in the loan agreement.
Lloyds didnt agree that it had acted unfairly. Mr S said that the auction outcome wasnt 
speculative at all, because he always gets what he wants at an auction. Mr S acknowledged 
our limit on compensation, but noted that we can make non-binding awards in excess of our limit. As a result, Mr S wanted us to make an award of compensation of between £1.2million 
and £1.4 million. 
Mr S has explained that he lost the opportunity to buy 453BR (which sold for £396,000 to 
another buyer). Mr S said that he is always successful at auction and so there is no doubt he 
would have secured this property if Lloyds had released the funds to DP in time. Mr S says 
he would have purchased 453BR at any cost because he knows properties on that road 
sell for £1 million so it does not matter on how much I pay as long as it is not more than 
£900,000, as I need to refurbish it.
Although Mr S initially asked for compensation of £600,000, he later revised this. Mr S says 
that his losses are around £1.2million to £1.4 million. This is because Mr S says that 453BR 
is made up of two lost plots of residential land in the garden, plus the sale of the original 
house after renovations.
In relation to the request by Lloyds to reduce DPs borrowing, Mr S clarified his position. He 
said that it was never his intention to sell 111DR and that Lloyds has fabricated notes that 
purport to show he said this. Mr S said that his residential properties are not owned by him, 
but have been owned for years by someone else in his family. Mr S also said that he owns 
nothing in his own name, and that, rather than DP having £100,000 to reduce the loan, the 
company in fact owes £50,000 to the directors. Mr S says that if Lloyds insists on DP 
repaying £100,000 the company would go bankrupt.
Provisional decision of 13 December 2022
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
Loss of opportunity claim: Ive noted what Mr S has said about the impact on him 
of the delay by Lloyds in releasing the funds to DP. Mr S said he intended to use 
those funds, along with £100,000 of his own money, to buy 453BR. In this regard, 
although Ive noted that Mr S was entirely confident that he would have secured this 
property, the outcome of an auction is not cut-and-dried and so I cannot speculate on 
whether or not Mr S would, in fact, have succeeded in bidding for this property.
But in any event, from what hes told us, this was to be a purchase in Mr Ss name, 
not in the name of DP which, as Mr S has confirmed, is a separate legal entity in its 
own right. The evidence doesnt show that DP was borrowing any funds from Mr S to 
purchase 453BR; rather, it was the other way round  with Mr S confirming that he 
was borrowing the money for his purchase from DP.
So although Ive noted everything Mr S has said about the loss of opportunity, this 
was a claim for the opportunity he says he has lost, rather than any loss to DP. In the 
circumstances, Im unable to find that there has been a loss of opportunity to DP, nor 
any other detriment to the company, arising from the late release of funds.
Lloyds acknowledged that it should have made it clearer at an earlier stage that it 
would require a directors guarantee, and that this caused delay. I think the £350 
Lloyds paid to DP for its customer service failings here is fair, and I dont intend to 
order the bank to do anything further.
Reduction in DPs borrowing: As I said above, although there were two separate 
trading entities  a partnership and a limited company  these were linked enterprises operated by the same people, and so Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to 
take an overview of both the partnerships and companys finances.
The sticking point was the £400,000 loan in Mr Ss sole name (taken out before he 
formed a partnership with his son), secured on 111DR, which is a partnership asset. 
Lloyds notes from 2021 record that Mr S said he intended to sell the asset on 
maturity of the loan, but this wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr S now disputes that he ever said 111DR would be sold, but Lloyds position was 
that if the loan was sold or re-financed, this would affect the overall loan-to-value 
(LTV) of the two related business finances. Therefore, if 111DR was sold or re-
mortgaged to another lender, Lloyds would expect an increase in the LTV by way of 
a reduction in the DP loan.
I dont think this was an unreasonable position for the bank to take. Mr S thinks that 
Lloyds should renew the £400,000 loan; hes explained that he hasnt been able to 
arrange finance elsewhere. However, that isnt something I can consider here, 
because this complaint is only about the loan to DP, not the loan in Mr Ss name. But 
as a general rule, Lloyds is allowed to review its commercial lending and re-assess 
its exposure to risk from time to time. Lloyds is also under no obligation to agree to 
lend, even if it has done so before.
In the circumstances, taking into account the impending end date of the £400,000 
loan and the potential impact of this on the overall risk to the bank, Im satisfied 
Lloyds was entitled to review the LTV. Lloyds is allowed to set its own lending and 
risk policies, and, given the apparent uncertainty about how Mr S was going to repay 
the £400,000 loan in his name, I dont think the banks concerns about how this could 
impact DPs position were unreasonable or unjustified.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded Lloyds did anything wrong in relation to its 
request to DP to reduce the loan balance.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds had no further comments. Mr S has made very detailed comments, most of which 
repeat arguments hes already made about his business acumen, or where, as he says, hes 
copied and pasted from the internet. I summarise the relevant points hes made below:
hes spoken to five solicitors whove all told him that he has a legal claim for loss of 
opportunity;
the law says he doesnt have to prove his losses;
he was guaranteed to win the auction;
Lloyds doesnt care about the Financial Ombudsman Service or that the ombudsman will 
be sued in a civil action if they make a biased mistake, and so Lloyds will tell lies and 
twist things;
Lloyds has to say the auction outcome was speculative, which he finds offensive but 
why does the ombudsman go along with this;
the purchase was to be in the name of DP, not his own name;
I need to take legal advice, or Google the law, because if I was to do so, I would see that  
Mr S is right about losing over £1 million as a result of Lloyds actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered the entire file, including the further points Mr S has made. Having done so, 
I am not minded to change my opinion. Ive taken careful note of everything Mr S has said, 
including the excerpts from cases that hes provided. It is correct that our rules say I can into 
consideration regulations, law and relevant industry practice. But the overarching principle 
embodied in our enabling legislation (The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) is that I 
must decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Claim for loss of opportunity: The issue of whether or not Mr S was intending to bid in the 
auction on his own behalf or in his capacity as a director of DP is really not relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. So although Ive noted Mr Ss points that he was going to buy the 
property in DPs name, ultimately nothing turns on this. 
Thats because the entire crux of Mr Ss complaint is that he claims he (or DP) lost the 
opportunity to buy a property at an auction he was guaranteed to win, and turn that into a 
profit of over £1 million (which Mr S also says might actually have been £2 million). 
The initial reason for the loan was to repay a directors loan Mr Ss son (and co-director) had 
made to the company  repayment of which he (the son) needed to buy a property. The 
purpose of the loan wasnt for the property Mr S later wanted to buy at auction. But I agree 
that there were delays releasing the funds, which Lloyds has also accepted.
I also agree that because the funds werent released, Mr S didnt bid at the auction. But I am 
unable to conclude, due to the speculative nature of an auction, that Mr S would have been 
the winning bidder. I know Mr S thinks its unrealistic for me to use the word speculative in 
relation to the outcome of an auction  because, he claims, it was guaranteed that he would 
win the auction. 
But there was no guarantee of this, notwithstanding that Mr S has told us he would have 
paid £900,000 for this property at the auction (which sold for £396,000) in order to have won. 
I find that to be an unrealistic claim. But if what Mr S says is true, it was always open to him 
to approach the successful bidder and offer him £900,000 for the property (or any other price 
substantially in excess of the sale price)  if, indeed, Mr S had actually been willing to pay 
that much to buy this particular property.
I havent disregarded the law, as Im familiar with the cases cited by Mr S which, he says, 
support his contention that he has lost up to £2 million because he wasnt able to bid in the 
auction. I dont doubt Mr Ss strength of feeling about this, but I am unable to conclude that 
Mr S would have made the winning bid at the auction, despite his genuine belief that this 
was a 100% certainty. This means that I cant hold Lloyds responsible for any perceived 
losses Mr S claims were incurred because Mr S (or DP) didnt buy the property. 
Lloyds paid £350 compensation inconvenience caused by delays in the administrative 
process when the loan was being set up. I think this is fair and I am not ordering the bank to 
do anything further.
Reduction in DPs borrowing: Mr S hasnt made any further points about this, and so there 
is no reason for me to deviate from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Lloyds is entitled to look at risk across a portfolio of lending to the same customers operating 
in both unincorporated and corporate business entities. I dont think the decision Lloyds 
made in relation to reducing DPs borrowing is unreasonable, for the same reasons given in 
my provisional decision.I know this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for, but for the reasons given above, Im 
unable to uphold the complaint. I will add that the amount of compensation Mr S is claiming 
on behalf of DP far exceeds the limit this service is able to award. If Mr S doesnt accept this 
decision on behalf of DP, the company can still pursue the matter against Lloyds in court, 
should the directors decide to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S on behalf of 
DP to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman