DRN-3551805
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that WeFlex Ltd (WeFlex) terminated his finance agreement and charged 
him more than had been agreed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint WeFlex, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The agreement was due to complete in September 2019 and at that point if Mr J had been 
up to date with his payments on the account he could have simply bought the car for £1. But 
as he was in significant arrears that couldnt be the case.
WeFlex allowed Mr J to keep the car for a further 18 months and I think they were 
sympathetic to the difficult situation Mr J found himself in and the problems he had e.g. with 
the pandemic, ill health, problems with the car, and with delays in getting his taxi license. 
They showed forbearance when noting Mr J used the car for work and not defaulting the 
agreement when they could have, and also when agreeing payment plans with Mr J to clear 
the arrears. Whilst they could have chosen to stop charging interest and late payment fees, I 
dont think they had to.
But I dont think WeFlex were fair when they took the car back in mid-2021. The debt at that 
point was £4,695.50 and had Mr J been able to clear the debt he could have taken 
possession of it for that amount plus £1. But WeFlex took the car away and charged him 
refurbishment charges that increased his indebtedness to £11,604.50.
I dont think that was reasonable or supportive and I think WeFlex should take some action 
to remedy the situation. Ill set that out in a moment.
Mr J says hes already paid more than what was agreed but I dont think that can be 
considered wrong. The finance agreement was for about £20,600 but there were additional 
costs for the insurance of about £8,680, late payment fees, congestion charges, and 
additional interest, to take into account. I think that explains the fees Mr J has paid and I 
dont think theres evidence he was overcharged.
Neither do I think WeFlex were wrong to apply a handling charge to the ULEZ fees. It was 
possible for Mr J to have arranged to pay these directly had he wished to avoid the charges.
Putting things right
I would agree with the investigators suggestion that to put things right for Mr J WeFlex 
should waive the refurbishment charges theyve levied and reduce the outstanding balance 
on the account, of £4,695.50, by the value of the car.
As the car has now been sold and WeFlex havent provided information to show what it was 
sold for, I am persuaded that £1,200 is a fair value and Im therefore asking WeFlex to 
reduce the outstanding balance of £4,695.50 by £1,200 leaving £3,495.50 to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell WeFlex Ltd to waive 
the refurbishment charges and reduce the balance on the account by £1,200 leaving 
£3,495.50 to pay. They should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr J for the 
balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman