DRN-2254404
The complaint
Miss H complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with a duplicate payment out 
of her account.
What happened
Miss H made a payment in January to her credit card provider, but the payment was 
duplicated in Nationwides systems. She says she became aware of the problem whilst in a 
shop when her account card was declined. Miss H says she then made a number of 
telephone calls to Nationwide, but it didnt sort out the problem straight away, didnt raise a 
complaint and generally didnt deal appropriately with her complaint.
Nationwide accepts it made mistakes and paid £200 compensation which it says it fair. It 
says Miss H had access to savings and an overdraft facility.
Miss H brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought overall the compensation 
offer was fair and reasonable. The investigator didnt think Miss H had any direct debits 
returned but accepted Nationwide could have done more to sort out the problem sooner and 
updated her.
Miss H doesnt accept that view and says she has received more compensation from other 
businesses for lesser problems and £200 compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation. I realise Miss H will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Nationwide made a number of mistakes by duplicating the 
payment and in how it then dealt with the problem. I have no doubt Miss H was caused 
concern and frustration in having her payment declined. And I have no doubt she then spent 
some time trying to find out what took place and how long she would be without her money. I 
can see it took about four to five days to sort out and I accept Miss H made a number of 
telephone calls to Nationwide. But overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide has fairly apologised 
for took place and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount.
I dont think Miss H had any direct debits that were returned, and I can see that she wasnt 
without access to money. I appreciate Miss H says she has received more compensation 
from other businesses but that is not something I can fairly consider as we consider what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I cant fairly order Nationwide to increase the compensation it has paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has paid a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman