DRN-2909475
The complaint
Mr C complained that Everyday Lending Limited acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr C took out two Everyday Lending loans as follows:
Loan 
NumberAmount 
BorrowedDate 
BorrowedRepayment 
TermMonthly 
repaymentInterest 
rate 
fixed 
per 
annumLoan status
1 £1,000 March 2019 24 Months £89.78 84.9% PAID
2 £1,600 September 
201924 Months £166.47 104.9% Outstanding
Mr C has brought his complaint to us through his representative, but to keep things simpler, 
Ill just refer to Mr C. 
Mr C mainly said that Everyday Lending mis-sold him loans at very high interest rates when 
he was vulnerable due to his age and earning under £5 per hour. Hes also unhappy that it 
didnt agree to a reduced settlement figure when requested. 
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt think that we could uphold it. 
As Mr C disagreed with our investigators view, it has come to me to consider afresh and 
make a decision. Mr C mainly feels that it isnt reasonable for us to say that Everyday 
Lending acted in a fair manner and he doesnt accept what our investigator has said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say 
this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday Lending did what it 
needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr C and I've thought about each loan in turn.
 
loan 1
Everyday Lending asked Mr C about his income and expenditure and obtained bank 
statements from him to verify his income and his spending. These showed that although his 
weekly wages could be variable, his monthly income worked out at a little over £1,000. 
Everyday Lending also carried out credit checks which showed that Mr C had no outstanding 
debt at the time.
When assessing affordability, Everyday Lending allowed for Mr Cs weekly payment of £20 
for board and lodging. It also relied on statistical information and factored into its calculations 
an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Cs position might 
reasonably expect to pay. 
As well as this, Everyday Lending boosted his expenses to allow for fluctuation in Mr Cs 
income or expenses. Keeping in mind that Mr C also made a regular payment of £40 each 
week which he was putting towards saving for a car, Everyday Lending worked out that his 
disposable income would be around £278.I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Lending were reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances and that it was fair to Everyday Lending to conclude that the loan 
repayments of £89.78 looked like they shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr C based 
on the information it had gathered.  
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr C provided or the other information 
Everyday Lending had recorded, which meant that Everyday Lending shouldve taken more 
steps to check the information Mr C had declared. And I think the checks were enough for 
Everyday Lending to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr C took out loan 2 and used this to repay loan 1 and give him some extra cash.
It appears that Mr Cs circumstances were broadly the same as they had been when he took 
out his first loan. His average monthly salary looked to be a little less  from looking at his 
bank statements Everyday Lending noted this was now around £900 or so. But I think its fair 
to say that loan 2 shouldve been affordable for Mr C as it looked like he should still have 
around £238 spare cash after paying for loan 2. 
Mr C hadnt shown Everyday Lending any signs that he was finding it hard to pay for his 
borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information Everyday Lending had 
collected, seem to support Everyday Lendings lending decision. Everyday Lending queried 
a payment shown on Mr Cs bank statements that didnt seem to reflect what was shown in 
its credit checks and Mr C was able to produce evidence to explain this satisfactorily. Looked 
at overall, I dont think there was enough in the information that Everyday Lending could see 
that I think wouldve made it realise that Mr C couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable 
way. 
And I think it was too soon for Everyday Lending reasonably to be able to identify any 
particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr C was over-reliant on this type of 
borrowing and so it shouldnt have lent to him. I think the checks that Everyday Lending 
carried out before it agreed to provide loan 2 were proportionate and that it was entitled to 
rely on the information it acquired which showed that this loan looked sustainably affordable 
for Mr C. 
Im sorry that Mr C found himself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mr Cs financial situation 
possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other information 
Everyday Lending obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a 
lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that 
Everyday Lending did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C. It did sufficient checks in 
the particular circumstances of these loan applications and made fair lending decisions 
based on the information it obtained. 
Despite what Mr C has said about being vulnerable at the time, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that Everyday Lending gathered which should have caused the 
lender any additional concerns about Mr Cs financial position when he applied for the loans 
or that ought reasonably to have led Everyday Lending to the conclusion that his loan 
applications should be declined. So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold his 
irresponsible lending complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about the high cost of the loans. I think there was a 
large amount of interest payable on these loans and I can appreciate that Mr C might now 
feel this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the loan agreements set out reasonably 
clearly both what the interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if the loans ran to term. Taking everything into account, I think Mr C was aware he was taking high cost 
loans on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high 
cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
Ive also thought carefully about what happened when Mr C approached Everyday Lending 
with a view to obtaining a reduction in the overall amount he would have to repay. I dont 
think that Everyday Lending acted unfairly or unreasonably when it asked for some 
information to support what Mr C said about his changed circumstances. And as that 
information wasnt provided, I cant fairly say that Everyday Lending did anything wrong 
when it declined to offer a reduced settlement figure. 
So I havent identified any reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award of 
redress against Everyday Lending and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
Im grateful to Mr Cs representative for his assistance in dealing with this complaint. I do 
understand that both he and Mr C take a different view to me and I appreciate that my 
decision is going to disappoint Mr C. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain how Ive reached my decision.
If Mr C is still in a position where he would like help to manage his finances, theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he (or his representative) gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint and I make no award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman