DRN-3602906
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) mishandled her 
motor insurance policy.
Mrs H is represented by Mrs L.
Where I refer to Tesco, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees and 
others insofar as I hold Tesco responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mrs H had a car. For the year from mid-May 2021, she had the car insured on a policy 
through Tesco. Tesco acted as an intermediary on behalf of an insurer that was an 
associated company of Tesco.
Mrs H agreed to pay by instalments for the yearly premium of about £375.00 and interest of 
about £40.00. That was under a loan agreement between Tesco and Mrs H.
Unfortunately, on 6 August 2021, Mrs Hs car was involved in an accident. The insurer said 
her car was a total loss. On about 19 August 2021, the insurer settled Mrs Hs claim by 
paying its pre-accident valuation of her car. 
By a letter dated 23 August 2021,Tesco told Mrs H she had 28 days from the settlement 
date to add a replacement vehicle to the policy  or cancel her policy. It said the full yearly 
premium would be due following the total loss.
On about 1 September 2021, Mrs L rang Tesco on Mrs Hs behalf, to complain about the 
claim for the balance of the premium.
On 13 September 2021, Tesco rang Mrs Ls mobile number and left a message asking her 
to ring back. 
By a final response also dated 13 September 2021, Tesco waived the £40.00 cancelation 
fee but turned down the complaint. The letter said that it enclosed a nominated contact form.
By a letter dated 13 September 2021, the insurer gave Mrs H a seven-day notice of 
cancellation of her policy.
The 28 days expired in mid-September 2021. During those 28 days, Mrs H was unable to 
get a replacement vehicle.
On about 17 September 2021, Mrs L rang Tesco, but it declined to speak with her.
By a letter dated 20 September 2021, Tesco confirmed cancellation of Mrs Hs policy. It said 
she had paid about £158.00 but owed a further £238.58. Mrs L asked Tesco to put this on 
hold.
On about 29 September 2021, Tesco told Mrs H it might instruct a debt collection agency.
On 5 October 2021, Mrs L replied with the completed form.
On about 7 October 2021, Mrs H was worried, and she paid the balance.
By a letter dated 20 October 2021, Tesco said it couldnt continue to take a monthly direct 
debit. 
Mrs L brought Mrs Hs complaint to us in late November 2021.
Our investigator didnt find it fair to direct Tesco to make any refund of premium. But she 
initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part.
She thought that Tesco should have discussed the matter with Mrs L prior to rejecting the 
complaint. To then receive a letter stating the outstanding sum would be passed to a debt 
collector would have caused Mrs H a considerable amount of stress and anxiety which could 
have been avoided, the investigator said.
The investigator recommended that Tesco should pay Mrs H £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Following further information from Tesco, our investigator changed her view. She didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She no longer thought that the service was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Says, in summary, that:
Mrs H was involved in a significant accident. She was awaiting an operation. She 
was in a vulnerable situation.
 
On 1 September 2021, Mrs H had already authorised her involvement. 
Tesco cancelled the policy It shouldnt have charged a cancellation fee.
Tesco refused to speak to her and sent a debt recovery letter to Mrs H, causing 
distress and anxiety. This was at a time when she was having difficulty sourcing and 
financing a vehicle and preparing for an operation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first raise a 
complaint with the financial firm and wait for up to eight weeks for a final response before we 
can investigate that complaint. 
It follows that we cant usually investigate a complaint made after the most recent final 
response. From its letter, I find that Tesco sent the nominated contact form on about 13 September 
2021. Mrs L has complained that it shouldve sent it sooner. But that complaint was after the 
final response. So I cant comment on that complaint.
Mrs L made a call on about 17 September. That was after the final response. So I cant 
comment on her complaint that Tesco was wrong to decline to discuss matters with her.
I will take into account the relevant law, policy terms, regulations and good practice. Above 
all, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.
According to the policy terms, Tesco acted on behalf of the insurer. Its policy terms included 
a term that if the vehicle became a total loss, the policy would usually end. Thats not an 
unusual term. I cant say its unfair because a total loss claim uses the full benefit of the 
policy. 
The policy terms allowed the policyholder 28 days from settlement to put a replacement 
vehicle on the policy. Thats what I would expect, and I dont find it unfair.
I understand that Mrs H was unable to source a car at that time. Nevertheless, the insurer  
cancelled the policy in line with its terms. I cant say that Tesco did anything wrong in relation 
to the cancellation.
The loan agreement included the following:
If you make a claim under your policy and it is subsequently cancelled or voided (a) 
the full premium for your policy will be payable and (b) this agreement will be 
terminated and all sums due under it will become payable within 14 days of 
cancellation of your policy.
If your vehicle is written off (a) the full premium for your policy will be payable and (b) 
this agreement will be terminated and all sums due under it will become payable 
within 14 days of cancellation of your policy.
Thats not an unusual term and I cant say its unfair.
I havent  seen any evidence that Mrs H got a replacement vehicle before her cancelled 
policy would otherwise have expired in May 2022. But if she did then she would have had to 
start paying for a replacement policy.
I understand that the accident and its aftermath were a difficult for Mrs H. However I dont 
consider that Tesco treated Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably, keeping in mind the usual terms 
Ive referred to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) to do any more in response to 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman