DRN-2193497
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way CIS General Insurance Limited (trading as Co-Op Insurance 
 Co-Op) handled his car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C has a car insurance policy underwritten by Co-Op. He was involved in a non-fault car 
accident in January 2019. At first Mr C used an accident management company to handle 
his claim. When he wasnt satisfied with the offer he received he asked to claim through Co-
Op. Co-Op said his car was a total loss and made a settlement of £7,240.
Mr C complained about the valuation as he felt it wasnt high enough, Co-Op dealt with this 
in its letter dated March 2019. Mr C later complained that he wanted the salvage value of the 
car on top of the vehicle valuation. And he complained that his car was disposed of before 
hed accepted the valuation. Co-Op apologised for this and offered Mr C £250. Mr C also 
complained that he lost money from his employer due to not having his car allowance, and 
that Co-Op should pay him this as he wouldve been able to receive this from the accident 
management company. He said he felt mis-led into using Co-Ops services for the claim.
Our investigator explained that we couldnt consider Mr Cs complaint about the valuation 
because he raised this with our service more than six months after hed received the final 
response letter. She said our rules wont allow us to look into that part. 
The investigator did look at Mr Cs other complaint points. She explained that Mr C wouldnt 
be entitled to the salvage value of his car on top of the pre accident value hes been paid. 
She also explained that his loss of car allowance isnt something that his policy covered. The 
investigator agreed that Co-Op shouldnt have disposed of the car when it did, but she felt 
the compensation it had offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr C disagreed. He felt that he wouldve benefitted by claiming through the accident 
management company rather than Co-Op. He also said that Co-Op sold the car before it 
owned it, so he should be entitled to the salvage value as well as more compensation for this 
error. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for similar reasons.
Valuation
Co-Op sent Mr C its final response to his complaint about the valuation of his car in March 
2019. Mr C referred his complaint to us in November 2019. Our rules say that unless a 
business consents, or there are exceptional circumstances, we cant consider a complaint 
that was referred to this service more than six months after the date of the final response 
letter.
Co-Op didnt consent to us considering this aspect of Mr Cs complaint as it was referred to 
us too late. And Ive not seen any exceptional circumstances as to why Mr C couldnt refer 
this complaint to us within six months of receiving the final response letter. So, I cannot 
consider this aspect of Mr Cs complaint.
Date of car disposal
Mr C found out that Co-Op disposed of his vehicle in April 2019, even though he hadnt 
accepted its valuation until August 2019. Co-Op acknowledged it had made an error here. It 
hadnt informed the salvage company that the car needed to be held until acceptance of the 
offer. It paid Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused and I think 
this is fair.
Mr C hadnt indicated that he wished to keep his vehicle. Hed explained his intentions were 
to purchase a new car, and the correspondence between himself and Co-Op was around the 
valuation, not about whether he wanted the car returned to repair himself. So, I dont think 
hes been impacted significantly by this error. I can imagine it wouldve caused frustration 
when he found out that his car had been disposed of before hed agreed to settle, but Mr C 
found all of this out after hed accepted settlement. Theres nothing to indicate that he 
wouldve done anything differently or that this error has caused Mr C to lose out. So, I think 
£250 compensation is fair to recognise that level of frustration he experienced finding out 
that an error had occurred.
Salvage value
Mr C complains that he should receive the salvage value of the car on top of the pre-
accident value. I dont think this is fair. Mr Cs policy says hell receive the market value of 
the car immediately before the accident if his car is uneconomical to repair. And thats what 
Co-Op has done. It has paid him the pre-accident value. So, I dont think it would be fair for 
Co-Op to pay Mr C anything more than his policy allows for. If Mr C received the pre-
accident value of his car and the salvage amount then he would be getting more money than 
his car would be worth which isnt the purpose of his car insurance policy.
Loss of earnings
Mr C receives a car allowance from his employer but has said this stopped when his car was 
declared a total loss. I can understand this would be frustrating, but a car allowance isnt a 
form of earnings, its an employee benefit which is there to cover the costs of owning a car 
and using it for work. At this point, Mr C wasnt using his car for work and wouldnt have had 
the associated costs. And I cant see that Mr Cs policy would pay out for any loss of income 
or employee benefits. So, I wont be asking Co-Op to pay Mr C anything for the loss of car 
allowance whilst he hasnt had a car.
I understand Mr C may have received more from the accident management company  this 
is because it would be making this claim from the third partys insurer directly and wouldnt 
be restricted to the terms under Mr Cs policy. But its unclear what the accident 
management company wouldve done for Mr C, and my role here is to look at what Co-Op 
has done. And from what Ive seen it has followed the terms set out in Mr Cs policy.
In summary, I think Co-Op has acted fairly and the compensation is has given Mr C for the 
error in disposing his vehicle early is reasonable. I understand Mr C has said he felt mis-led 
into asking Co-Op to deal with his claim. But Ive not seen any evidence of this. Mr C had already instructed an accident management company and was unhappy with the service and 
settlement he was offered. Co-Op has since carried out his claim in line with his policy terms 
and has offered fair compensation for the error it made. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman