DRN-2208484
The complaint
Mr S and Miss T complain that TSB made an error when dealing with a request to change 
their address. They say this error impacted on them financially and led to a breach of data 
protection legislation. Theyre unhappy with the amount of compensation they were paid.
What happened
Mr S and Miss T held a joint account with TSB. In early 2019 they contacted it to ask it to 
change their address as theyd moved to a new house. TSB asked them to attend their 
branch with identification in order to make that change.
In February 2019 Mr S and Miss Ts address was updated by TSB. While Miss Ts address 
was correctly changed an error was made when TSB updated Mr S address. As Mr S 
account preferences were set to electronic communication, he was unaware of TSBs error 
until he made enquiries after three unsuccessful applications for credit. 
On learning that his address had been incorrectly recorded by TSB Mr S asked it to change 
his address. But it said it couldnt complete a change of address over the telephone as, to do 
so, hed either have to attend a branch or access a web link in line with its procedure.
TSB sent Mr S a web link to change his address online. But he wasnt able to make the 
change using the web link TSB had provided. And it wasnt until 10 July 2020 that Mr S 
address was corrected by TSB.
Mr S raised a complaint with TSB about what happened. He was unhappy that, as a result of 
TSBs error, correspondence relating to his account was sent to an address where he didnt 
live for around 17 months. He also said it continued to send correspondence to the incorrect 
address afterwards. He raised a data protection breach with TSB and said this wasnt dealt 
with within the appropriate timescale. And he complained that TSBs error had caused both 
he and Miss T to be refused credit, which had forced them to rely on their overdraft. So, they 
were out of pocket.
When TSB responded to Mr S and Miss Ts complaint it accepted it had made an error. It 
apologised for what had happened and paid £700 into their joint account to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience its mistake had caused. It also paid £72 towards the cost of 
telephone calls made by Mr S and Miss T.
Mr S and Miss T didnt think the compensation TSB had paid appropriately recognised the 
impact its error had had on them both. So, they referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this complaint. 
They thought TSB had acted fairly in resolving Mr S and Miss Ts complaint and thought the 
compensation it had already paid was reasonable. But Mr S and Miss T disagreed and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr S and Miss T wanted to 
speak to me before I issue my decision. I can understand why they may want this. But Im 
satisfied that I have enough information to make a decision without needing to speak to Mr S 
and Miss T. Theyve made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
Im sorry to hear about the experience Mr S and Miss T had here. I can understand why they 
would have been caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. And I can see how 
strongly they feel about their complaint. Mr S told our investigator about the outcome of a 
similar complaint he raised with another bank. I understand why he would be keen for me to 
be aware of his previous complaint. But we look at the individual circumstances of each 
complaint we receive to decide what we think is the fairest way to resolve it. That almost 
inevitably means that cases which might be similar to a complaint made by a customer 
historically could well result in quite different outcomes. And our service wouldnt consider a 
previous resolution to be a precedent or comment on it.
Mr S and Miss T have collectively raised a number of separate complaint issues and I think it 
will make things clearer if I address each separately within this decision.
TSB using an incorrect correspondence address
Ive seen evidence from TSB that satisfies me that the issue regarding an incorrect address 
only applied to Mr S customer profile. Theres no evidence to suggest this issue affected 
Miss Ts customer profile. But, in sending documentation about Mr S, I think TSBs error also 
impacted on Miss T because, as I mentioned in the background to this complaint, their 
account was held in joint names.
Mr S said the occupant of the address TSB incorrectly sent his mail to received personal 
information relating to his account from 28 February 2019 until 10 July 2020 when his 
address was changed. So, this went on for a protracted period of around 17 months. I agree 
with Mr S that this error shouldnt have been made. But I also think its important to 
recognise that, because TSBs error was accidental, it couldnt have known Mr S address 
had been input incorrectly until this was brought to its attention. 
Mr S appears to dispute the date that TSB said his address was corrected. But the evidence 
Ive seen clearly shows TSB correctly updated his address on 10 July 2020. In thinking 
about whether TSB acted promptly in remedying its error, once it was aware, Ive taken into 
account the reasons why TSB wasnt able to amend Mr S address over the telephone. I 
appreciate this meant it took a little longer to effect a change of address. But I cant criticise 
for TSB for having security procedures in place, which prevent a change of address over the 
telephone. Ive seen evidence of TSBs change of address procedure and Im satisfied this 
was adhered to. 
Its understandable and reasonable for TSB to want to verify a customer prior to changing a 
recorded address. I appreciate Mr S couldnt change his address online due to issues with 
the web link he was provided. But I cant fairly hold TSB responsible for website issues, 
which are beyond its control. And, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think I 
TSB took prompt action to correct its error once it was aware of what had happened.Mr S told our investigator that bank statements were amongst the correspondence TSB sent 
to the wrong address in error. But he was registered for paperless statements and 
correspondence. And I havent seen any evidence that bank statements or documents 
containing financial information about Mr S and Miss Ts joint account were sent to the 
wrong address. Theres been no suggestion that either Mr S or Miss T have sustained any 
loss or been the victim of fraud as a result of TSBs error. So, Im not going to ask TSB to 
make an award for financial loss here.
Mr S has complained that after he changed his address with TSB it continued to send 
correspondence to the previous address. But TSB has stated when a customers address is 
changed its fraud prevention process is such that a system generated letter is posted to the 
previous address as a security measure. 
TSB said it didnt override that process in this case. Its recognised that it ought to have 
considered not following its process and its explained that feedback has been provided to 
the relevant team about that. 
I appreciate it must be frustrating for correspondence to have been sent to an incorrect 
address even after TSB corrected Mr S address. But I havent seen any evidence that this 
correspondence contained financial information. Ive also not seen any evidence that either 
Mr S or Miss T suffered a loss as a result of what happened. Im therefore not persuaded I 
can fairly ask TSB to do more than its already done in relation to this part of their complaint. 
Breach of data protection regulations
Mr S has argued that, in sending correspondence to an address where he didnt live, TSB 
breached data protection legislation. He believes he should be compensated for this and he 
isnt happy with how TSB and our investigator dealt with his concerns about this part of his 
complaint.
I can understand the concerns Mr S and Miss T have about the confidentiality of financial 
information relating to their joint account. But this isnt something Im going to be able to 
assist them with. Theyll need to refer their concerns to the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) should they wish to pursue this issue further. The ICO is better placed than this 
service to look at an organisations handling of personal data because its not our role to 
decide whether a breach of data protection legislation has taken place. So, I hope Mr S and 
Miss T will understand that I wont be commenting any further on this issue as it falls outside 
of our jurisdiction.
Impact on Mr S and Miss Ts credit file
Mr S and Miss T told our service that, as a result of TSBs error, three applications for credit 
were declined. Theyve said that, as a consequence of being unable to secure credit, theyve 
had to use their overdraft which has incurred a higher rate of interest. So, theyve incurred 
additional expense.
I empathise with Mr S and Miss T. And I can understand why they might believe the error 
TSB made led to their applications for credit being declined as they already held open credit 
agreements elsewhere. But they havent provided any evidence from those declining their 
applications for credit that demonstrates their applications were unsuccessful due to an 
address discrepancy.  
I can see that, in its final response letter, TSB recognised that being linked to an incorrect 
address might have affected Mr S and Miss Ts credit file and led to applications for credit 
being refused. Its apologised for this and TSB has shown our service evidence that it asked credit reference agencies to make the necessary changes to ensure Mr S and Miss Ts 
credit file is now recording information about their address correctly.
 
Complaint handling
Its clear from what Mr S and Miss T have told our investigator that they arent happy with 
how TSB dealt with their complaint. But our service doesnt have the power to look at how 
financial businesses deal with complaint handling because its not a regulated activity under 
the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think TSB hadnt done things well in 
this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of Mr S and Miss Ts concerns or make 
an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I wont comment any further on this issue.
Was the compensation TSB paid fair and reasonable?
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint TSB has already paid £700 
compensation to Mr S and Miss T for the impact its error had. Its also paid them £72 
towards the cost of calls they incurred in discussing their complaint. Its clear they dont think 
this payment adequately reflects the distress and inconvenience they both experienced. 
Mr S has argued that TSB should pay additional compensation because he believes the 
compensation paid hasnt taken into account the impact of its error on Miss T. However, I 
dont think thats right, and Ill explain why.
Ive carefully listened to the telephone call Mr S made to TSB to discuss his concerns. 
During this recording I think Mr S clearly outlines to TSB that the issues he was raising had 
also impacted on Miss T. So, I think TSB knew it was dealing with a complaint affecting both 
Mr S and Miss T.
I recognise that TSBs final response to Mr S and Miss Ts complaint was addressed to only 
Mr S. However, I can see that, in complaint correspondence, TSB sent refers to both Mr S 
and Miss T. And, based on the content of the complaint correspondence Ive seen, its clear 
that the compensation TSB paid was to recognise the impact of its error on both Mr S and 
Miss T. It also paid the compensation it had offered into their joint account, which I think 
further demonstrates that it approached this as a joint complaint.
In thinking about whether the compensation TSB paid was fair and reasonable I must bear in 
mind that our service isnt here to punish businesses. When deciding what potential 
compensation to award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a 
result of any business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
Ive already explained why Im not persuaded that Mr S and Miss T suffered a financial loss 
as a result of TSBs error, which is fortunate. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair of me 
to tell TSB to pay financial loss or compensation for something that didnt happen.
When our service considers awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we 
use to calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks 
actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, 
whether compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mr S and Miss Ts experience here went beyond mere irritation. I dont 
dispute they were caused distress and worry by what happened. I also recognise that theyd 
have had to spend some time contacting TSB to raise their concerns. But its reasonable to 
expect a complainant to have to spend some time in raising and dealing with a complaint.Theres nothing to suggest the time Mr S and Miss T spent in dealing with their complaint 
was excessive. I havent seen any evidence that TSB protracted the complaint handling 
process. And Im satisfied it accepted responsibility for its error quickly and candidly from the 
outset.
I can see that our investigator asked Mr S and Miss T to provide evidence of any other ways 
in which TSBs error impacted on them so I could consider whether additional trouble and 
upset had been caused, which may not have been already taken into account. But I 
understand that no further evidence has been sent to our service. I therefore havent seen 
anything to make me think that TSB should pay any more than it already has done in the 
circumstances.
Ive taken on board all of Mr S and Miss Ts comments about what happened. And I 
understand they feel very strongly about the issues raised in their complaint. But Im satisfied 
that the compensation TSB has already paid is a fair amount of compensation thats 
proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr S and Miss T wouldve been caused 
here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that a higher distress and inconvenience award is warranted here. I also think 
the £72 TSB paid towards the cost of calls Mr S and Miss T incurred in discussing their 
complaint was a reasonable amount to cover their telephone expenses.  
Finally, Mr S and Miss T are unhappy that when TSB paid their compensation it resulted in 
them only receiving £100 because £600 offset their overdraft liability. Its clear they think this 
detracts from the overall compensation amount TSB has paid. But their overdraft balance 
was owed by them jointly. And Ive considered that theyre now in a better financial position 
as a result of the compensation TSB paid. I say this as they owe less than they did before. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr S and Miss Ts dispute with TSB 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mr S and Miss T any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman