DRN-2958396
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the way Vitality Life Limited handled her life insurance application. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs P applied for a life insurance policy with Vitality. Within the 
application she mentioned there was a family history of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy 
(DMD). Vitality started to assess the application and requested further information from 
Mrs P and her GP. Mrs P spoke to Vitality a few times but was unhappy with the service she 
received and the way her application was being handled. So, she made a complaint. 
Vitality reviewed the complaint and sent a final response, dated 23 December 2020, 
upholding Mrs Ps complaint and offering her £150 in relation to the service she received 
when she contacted Vitality. 
In February 2020 Vitality received the GP report. After doing so, it decided to increase the 
cost of Mrs Ps monthly premium from £13.79 to £20. Mrs P was unhappy, so she made 
another complaint. She said she was unhappy with the time it took to review the application 
and Vitalitys decision to increase her premium. Vitality reviewed the complaint and issued a 
further final response  dated 17 February 2021. It decided its decision to increase the 
premium was correct. But it did offer £25 for providing Mrs P with the wrong advice about the 
underwriting process. 
Mrs P remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said Vitality had 
unfairly increased the premium on her application for a condition she doesnt have and 
cannot develop. She said she mentioned DMD on her application, but her GP wasnt 
questioned about this. And due to the time it took Vitality to process the application and her 
complaint, the cost of obtaining a policy with other insurers had increased. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
Vitality asked Mrs Ps GP for information in relation to any tests that were available. And she 
didnt think Vitality acted unreasonably by assuming the information provided by the GP was 
accurate. The investigator said Vitality had told Mrs P she had the option to provide the DMD 
test result from her GP and that a timeframe wasnt put on when the test result needed to be 
provided by. She added that she was satisfied Vitality wouldve reconsidered the quote for 
Mrs Ps policy based upon the results of the test. And after considering the offers Vitality had 
made for the service it provided, she didnt think it needed to do anything more here. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Vitality did contact her 
GP after she applied for the policy, but it didnt ask whether she had ever been diagnosed 
with DMD or if she had been tested for the condition. Mrs P said Vitality asked her to carry 
out a test for the condition, but it was during the countrywide lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and very expensive and time consuming. Mrs P added that Vitality failed to clearly 
request information about the condition so it could increase her premium. And she couldnt 
find any medical evidence which explains why female carries of DMD are a higher risk of 
cardiomyopathy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Vitality increasing Mrs Ps premium
Mrs P is unhappy with her monthly premium increasing and doesnt agree that she is an 
increased risk to Vitality. Ive reviewed the application form and I can see that Mrs P 
mentioned her family history of DMD. And in response to one of the questions about her 
personal health Mrs P also mentioned DMD. Shortly after the application, Vitality queried this 
with her and she confirmed via e-mail she didnt have DMD. So, Vitality asked for further 
information from her GP. 
I note Vitality then sent a targeted GP report. And within this report there was a section 
which asked for information on genetic test results that show Mrs P has a normal or reduced 
risk of disease. I can see that DMD wasnt specifically mentioned on the report by Vitality, 
but I believe the form was clear in what it wanted the GP to include. And because the GP 
didnt mention DMD in the form, Vitality said it referred the application to its underwriter who 
increased the premium based upon the information Vitality had at the time. 
Mrs P said she told Vitality she had previously had genetic testing for DMD, but this was 
when she was younger, and she didnt have the test results. So, because this information 
wasnt available to Vitality, I think it was reasonable for it to consider Mrs Ps family history 
for this condition against its underwriting criteria when assessing Mrs Ps application. 
Ive considered the underwriting information provided by Vitality. Im satisfied its considered 
the correct condition (DMD) and fairly increased the premium based upon the underwriting 
guidelines and the medical factsheet which explains the potential increased risk here. Vitality 
has the guidelines to refer to so it can assess each application and apply the guidance to all 
consumers consistently and fairly. And I dont consider it unreasonable for an insurer to be 
cautious when assessing medical information and deciding on the risks its willing to insure. 
So, I dont think Vitality has treated Mrs P unfairly here. 
The service Mrs P received
Mrs P is unhappy with the service she received after she submitted her application. She said 
Vitality provided a poor service which caused her inconvenience and delayed her application 
which has meant the cost of her insurance with other providers increased due to her moving 
into a different age category. 
Vitality has said its offered £150 for the service Mrs P received when she contacted it shortly 
after submitting her application. Its offered £25 for providing incorrect advice about its 
underwriting process, which gave Mrs P the impression the premium might not be changed. 
And Vitality apologised for incorrectly stating the name of the family condition that led to the 
premium increase. Ive considered the time Vitality took to assess the application and to request the GP report. 
And having done so, I dont think Vitality has unfairly delayed the application. I understand 
there was some confusion in one of Vitalitys e-mails that mentioned it needed a form to be 
returned. This confused Mrs P as no form had been received. And when she called Vitality to 
question this Vitality admitted the service it provided wasnt of its required standard. So, it 
offered £150 to Mrs P which was accepted. 
After this, I note the GP report was chased frequently by Vitality. The GP surgery did tell 
Vitality this information could take two to four weeks to provide. And Im satisfied the delays 
in receiving this information wasnt the fault of Vitality. As a result, I dont believe it was 
Vitalitys fault that Mrs P may have lost the opportunity of getting cheaper cover with other 
insurers due to the time it took to assess the application. 
Mrs P was told incorrect information in relation to whether the premium could be increased 
by Vitality whilst she was waiting for a decision from an underwriter. Vitality has offered £25 
for this mistake which Mrs P hasnt accepted. Im sure Mrs P was frustrated to be given 
incorrect information, but Vitalitys offer seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id 
expect in similar cases. 
I note Vitality stated the wrong condition in its final response and then in a subsequent e-mail 
(which it has apologised for). Again, Im sure this frustrating for Mrs P in the circumstances. 
But Ive considered the apology Vitality made to be sufficient here. 
Vitality Life has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. If Mrs P would like to receive this offer, then she can either let 
this service know or contact Vitality to make the necessary arrangements. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman