DRN-4320085
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund around €17,000 he lost to 
an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallets from his Wise account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers). The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Wise, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Wise should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a payment service 
provider should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Wise doesnt consider the payment activity on Mr Bs account to have been unusual 
enough to have warranted any scam warnings or intervention. However, Mr B opened 
his Wise account in May 2022. Prior to the first scam transaction of €5,000.10, he had 
only made very small payments not exceeding £10. So, I think Wise ought reasonably to 
have seen this as higher risk given it marked a change in how the account had been 
used, such that it should have provided Mr B with a written warning that broadly covered 
scam risks. Its arguable that it shouldve also provided a more tailored written scam 
warning or even spoken to Mr B to question him when he went on to make a further 
payment to the same payee a few minutes later, as this can often be indicative of fraud. 
However, even if it had, Im not persuaded any warning or intervention wouldve 
ultimately prevented Mr B from falling victim to the scam in this instance. 
I say this because Mr B had not been contacted by a broker out of the blue offering an 
investment, for example, which can often be a strong indication of a scam. He had 
instead been introduced to the investment by a trusted friend, who he understood to 
have been making good returns. So, any warning setting out the risks of being contacted 
by an unsolicited broker would not have resonated with the circumstances in which Mr B 
had found the investment. He has said that he trusted the recommendation made by his 
friend and that he had no reason to believe he was being scammed. 
I also note that there was very little information available about the scammer Lamelle 
Financial Consultants when Mr B was making the payments, and he wasnt able to find 
anything about them online. So, even if he had been warned by Wise and advised to 
carry out further research, it would have been unlikely to yield any results that wouldve 
led him to believe he was being scammed. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Wise 
liable for Mr Bs loss, because it seems more likely than not that he would have always 
made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any scam warnings or intervention 
it couldve given.
Given that Mr B paid money from his Wise account to his own crypto wallets before 
moving it on to the scammer, there also wouldve been no prospect of Wise being able to 
recover any of the money.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Wise can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman