DRN-1121903
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by 
AXA France IARD (AXA) in 1997. 
What happened
AXA, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my decision, Ill just refer to 
AXA as the PPI seller. Mr S says AXA mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of the store card application form Mr S signed. It appears AXA made 
him aware that he had a choice about adding PPI and that he chose to take it by 
ticking the relevant box on the form. I can understand if he doesnt remember that 
now, after all this time.
I dont consider that AXA personally recommended the PPI to Mr S. So it didnt have 
to check if the PPI was right for him. But AXA should have given him the information 
he needed to decide for himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And I can see why as, despite his enhanced sick pay entitlement, the 
PPI benefits were considerable and would have paid out for a significant time. It 
covered him for unemployment too. The policy would also have allowed him to retain 
the savings he had or put them towards covering his other living costs if he wasnt 
working. I also think its likely Mr S realised there was a cost for the cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr S circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful to him if something went wrong. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr S has lost out because of how AXA sold 
him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.Nimish Patel
Ombudsman