DRN-4377470
The complaint
Mr A complains that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) unfairly turned down his 
claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 24 March 2023, Mr A took out a four weeks free dog insurance policy online for his 
puppy. The policy was underwritten by Agria.
On the evening of 4 April, Mr A took his puppy to the vet for his second puppy vaccination.  
Later that evening, Mr A called the vet saying his puppy was very reactive around the 
vaccination site. The vet said Mr A should monitor the puppy and make an appointment in 
the morning if he was still concerned.
A little later that evening, Mr A called the vet again to say his puppys pain seemed to be 
coming from his tummy and he was also yelping when picked up. Mr A took his puppy to the 
vet for an emergency appointment. The puppy was admitted overnight for treatment and 
discharged the following morning.
When Mr A claimed for the cost of his puppys treatment, Agria turned it down. It said the 
treatment was for an illness. It said that, although Mr As policy covered treatment costs for 
an injury as soon as the policy came into force, it didnt cover treatment costs for an 
illness within the first 14 days  and Mr As puppy was treated within that time.
When Agria didnt uphold Mr As complaint about declining his claim, he came to us. Mr A 
says:
The 14-day exclusion period for illness wasnt made clear to him when he took the 
policy out. 
The marketing of the policy was misleading because it gave him a much shorter 
period of cover than four weeks.
The policy didnt make a clear distinction between injury and illness. 
His puppy had an injury (as defined by the policy) and so Agria should pay the 
claim. 
The investigator who looked at Mr As complaint didnt uphold it. She didnt think Mr As 
puppys treatment could be classed as an injury. So she was satisfied Agria had turned 
down the claim in line with the policy terms. She also said that, although the policy had a 14-
day exclusion period for illness, it gave Mr A cover for 28 days for other things.
Mr A says our investigator hasnt given her rationale for saying his puppys treatment was an 
illness not an injury and so hes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, sets out rules and 
guidance for insurers. One of these is that an insurer mustnt unreasonably turn down a 
claim.
In deciding whether Agria has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr As claim, the 
first thing Ive looked at is his policy. This says Agria wont pay costs resulting from his puppy 
having an illness in the first 14 days of the policy. 
The policy defines illness in the first 14 days as: An illness or behavioural disorder that first 
showed clinical signs in the first 14 days after your policy started
The policy defines illness as changes to your dogs normal healthy state; sickness, 
disease, bilateral disorders, defects and abnormalities, including defects and abnormalities 
your dog was born with or were passed on by its parents.
Mr As policy also says it will pay the cost of treatment for an injury his puppy receives 
during the 28 days of the policy up to £1,500. For an injury, theres no 14-day exclusion 
period, so this cover is immediate.
The policy defines injury as physical damage or trauma caused suddenly by an accident.
The next thing Ive looked at is the veterinary evidence weve been given about Mr As 
puppys symptoms. The notes the vet made during the emergency appointment say Mr As 
puppy is very painful and repeatably screams when picked up from the front. The notes 
also say: difficult to say cause of pain, could be due to sensitivity from injection this evening. 
No obvious cause.
Mr A says his puppys symptoms were caused by an injection-site reaction which, under the 
terms of his policy, he says is an injury. 
The first thing to say about this is that I dont think the veterinary evidence on what caused 
the puppys symptoms is conclusive. The vets notes say the puppys pain could be 
sensitivity from the injection, are possibly vaccine related? but also theres no obvious 
cause. 
As Ive already said, the policy defines injury as physical trauma or damage that is 
caused suddenly by an accident. Even if it was shown conclusively by the veterinary 
evidence to be the cause of the puppys symptoms, I dont think having a vaccination can 
reasonably be interpreted as an accident (within the ordinary and natural meaning of that 
term) that happened suddenly. So I dont agree with Mr A that his puppy had an injury, as 
his policy defines it.
Again, as Ive already said, the policy defines illness by reference to changes to Mr As 
puppys normal healthy state. Given the veterinary evidence about Mr As puppys 
symptoms which Ive described, I think Agria has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
Mr As policy terms in treating those symptoms as an illness, rather than an injury. That 
means I dont think Agria has treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably in turning down his 
claim, because the policy excludes cover for illness in the first 14 days.
Mr A says the policy didnt make a clear distinction between illness and injury. These 
terms are commonly used in pet insurance policies, often with similar definitions to those used in Mr As policy. Insofar as they apply to the facts and circumstances of Mr As 
complaint, and for the reasons Ive given above, I think the distinction between them is 
reasonably clear.
Mr A says the 14-day exclusion period for illness wasnt made clear to him when he took 
the policy out. Agria has shown us a screen shot of the web journey it says Mr A wouldve 
taken when he was offered the free cover. This asks Mr A to tick a box if he wants cover. 
Beneath it and another box Mr A has to click to continue, theres a statement saying: This 
insurance includes immediate cover for injury, illness cover starts in 14 days. Although 
neither illness nor injury are defined in the statement on the screen shot, I wouldnt expect 
them to be. I think its enough that the 14-day exclusion period for illness was highlighted in 
Mr As web journey before he took the policy out. 
Mr A says the policy gave him a shorter period of cover than it marketed. But the policy ran 
for 28 days, from 24 March to 20 April. And while there was a 14-day exclusion for illness, 
the policy included cover for 28 days for veterinary fees of up to £1,500 for injury, as well 
as a contribution of up to £1,000 towards advertising and reward costs if his puppy was lost 
or stolen. So I dont think the 28-day cover period that was marketed was misleading.
Ive considered all the other comments Mr A has made but they dont change my 
conclusions on his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman