DRN-4080923
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, who Ill call Moneybarn.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it may disappoint Mr S, but whilst I agree this car has not been of satisfactory quality, 
I also think Moneybarns offer of support has been reasonable and Im not asking them to do 
any more than that. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was about 
11 years old and had completed about 49,000 miles. So, Id expect it to be showing some 
signs of wear and tear and not to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case on a brand 
new car.
Having said that, however, I am not persuaded the faults the car is currently experiencing 
could be considered fair wear and tear. The car cant be driven because there are wiring 
faults, and the vehicle will also need a Diesel Particulate Filter regeneration before its fit to 
drive.
Because Mr S reported the faults within 30 days the relevant legislation gives him the right to 
reject the car without a repair being completed. But Mr S has now explained hed prefer for 
the car to be repaired.
I dont think thats an unreasonable request and Im pleased to see the business have 
agreed to pay for the repair costs. 
Putting things right
Ive no reason to think the repairer Moneybarn have selected are incapable of completing 
the repair. They appear well established, and Moneybarn have explained that they have 
excellent reviews. Moneybarn still own the car and, whilst Id expect them to take Mr Ss 
views into account, I think its for them to decide where to get their car repaired. A referral to 
Mr Ss chosen repairer would, I think its fair to say, incur greater costs, as a new diagnostic 
would probably need to be paid for in advance of any repairs. Moneybarns chosen repairer 
also has the advantage of being able to complete repairs remotely without the need to 
inconvenience Mr S with trips to the garage. So, I think the car should be repaired by 
Moneybarns chosen repairer.
Mr S has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take his car for 
diagnostics and has had to arrange alternative transport whilst his car has been off the road. 
In the circumstances I think Moneybarn should pay him £300 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr S has been unable to use the car since September 2022 and its not fair for him to be 
paying for a car he cant drive. Moneybarn should therefore refund any finance instalments 
hes paid since the car broke down in September 2022 and until the car is successfully 
repaired. Theyll need to waive the instalments if they were due and havent been paid and 
they should add interest to any refund as Mr S will have been deprived of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
Arrange for the car to be repaired by their chosen repairer, and at no cost to Mr S.
Refund, or waive, any finance instalments from September 2022 until the date the 
car is repaired. Add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Pay Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused unless 
thats already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman