DRN-2067807
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard prevented her from 
closing her account and caused financial difficulty by adding interest to her account balance.
What happened
Mrs H says Barclaycard is preventing her from closing her account and has not allowed her 
online account access. She says Barclaycard is adding interest to the account balance 
which is causing financial difficulties and that she no longer has her account card and so 
doesnt have online account access. Mrs H would like Barclaycard to remove charges and 
interest and says it has sent her nasty letters. She says interest has been applied illegally 
and Barclaycards actions has caused a significant impact. She would like to agree a final 
balance with the illegally applied charges removed.
Barclaycard says it has given Mrs H the account balance on a number of occasions and 
given her alternative methods of paying the balance. It says it would not agree a reduced 
settlement figure with Mrs H which is what it says she wanted, and any interest has been 
applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions. It also says its records show Mrs H 
was able to log in to online banking and made a payment towards the balance in April 2020. 
Barclaycard doesnt accept its letters were inappropriate and says Mrs H has now cancelled 
the direct debit payment to it. The balance it says was just over £54.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard told Mrs H on a number of occasions what her account balance was 
and gave her information about how she could pay off the balance. The investigator thought 
any interest charged was in line with agreed account terms and conditions and also thought 
the account statements would have told Mrs H the balance.
Mrs H doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard has continued to harass her and it 
ignored multiple letters she sent to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the letters Mrs H sent to Barclaycard and having done so Im satisfied that 
she asked it to agree a reduced final settlement figure so that she could close the account. 
Im also satisfied that Barclaycard told Mrs H on a number of occasions in its response 
letters that it wasnt prepared to offer a reduced settlement figure and that if Mrs H wished to 
close the account then she needed to repay the full balance. I appreciate that Mrs H may 
have been disappointed by that approach, but I think its up to Barclaycard to decide if it was 
prepared to accept a reduced settlement figure. And so, I dont think it acted unfairly or made 
a mistake by telling Mrs H that.
I have looked at the letters Barclaycard sent Mrs H and I dont think those letters were 
nasty as Mrs H says or inappropriate. And I think they also gave Mrs H alternative methods 
of repaying the balance she owed and fairly gave her a telephone number that she could use 
to contact its relevant department. I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycard 
deliberately made it difficult for Mrs H to close the account and based on the evidence in the 
letters, I think Mrs H was given a number of different repayment options.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mrs H would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. I can see those terms and conditions explain when interest 
will be applied. I have not seen any evidence that Barclaycard made a mistake by applying 
interest where, for example, an account balance wasnt repaid in full by a given date. I also 
make clear to Mrs H that we are not a court, and so I cant fairly conclude Barclaycard acted 
illegally in applying interest in any event.
I appreciate that Mrs H says she didnt have online access to her account. But Im satisfied 
she was given alterative methods of contacting Barclaycard and in being able to repay the 
account balance. I can also see from Barclaycards records that it appears Mrs H was able 
to access her account online in April 2020 and that shortly afterwards a payment for £1,000 
was made towards the balance.
I also appreciate Mrs H says Barclaycard didnt respond to her letters and has harassed her. 
I can see that Barclaycard says it didnt receive some of the letters, but I can see in any 
event it wrote to Mrs H on four occasions between January 2020 and March 2020. So, I think 
it did respond to the letters it received and made its position clear in each of them. I have not 
seen any evidence that Barclaycard has harassed Mrs H since she brought the complaint to 
us and in any event that doesnt form part of this complaint. Mrs H will need to make a new 
complaint about those matters.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and wasnt obliged 
to remove interest or agree a reduced settlement amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman