DRN-4394919
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M received advice from another firm about consolidating his defined contribution 
pensions. In the course of their discussions, Mr M wanted a review of his DB schemes. But, 
because it didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to advise on DB pension 
transfers, it introduced Mr M to IFM. Mr M approached IFM around October 2017 to discuss 
his pension and retirement needs. This decision is about one of Mr Ms DB schemes.
IFM recorded some information about Mr Ms circumstances in a fact-find. It noted that he 
was 51, married with two dependent children. Mr M was employed earning approximately 
£55,000. His wife was also employed and she earned around £35,000. They had a mortgage 
on their home, which cost around £800 a month  neither the outstanding balance nor the 
remaining term was recorded. Mr and Mrs Ms combined income exceeded their outgoings 
giving them around £650 surplus disposable income per month. IFM also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced. 
Mr Ms DB scheme benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £94,505.
On 5 October 2017, IFM issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability 
report.) This said Mr M was attracted to the freedoms a personal pension would give him, 
allowing him to access his pension when he needed it and to shape his income to suit his 
requirements. It said he was also conscious of the economic climate which had led to high 
transfer values and he wanted to take advantage of this. It also said Mr M was keen to 
ensure his pension didnt die with him and he wanted it to be fully inherited by his family.
IFM recommended that Mr M transfer his pension because he required flexibility to tailor the 
frequency and amount of income he took from his pension; he was prepared to take 
investment risk to achieve this; and because the transfer value appeared fair value, and the 
required investment return to match the scheme benefits was achievable. It also 
recommended a provider and investment strategy that it deemed matched Mr Ms attitude to 
risk.
Mr M complained to IFM in 2023 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In essence, he 
didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him.
While IFM acknowledged Mr Ms complaint, it didnt provide a response to it.
Mr M then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said hes worried 
that hes been financially disadvantaged as a result of transferring. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable as Mr M wasnt likely to 
improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. And they didnt think 
there were any other compelling reasons to justify the transfer as being in Mr Ms best 
interests. They said Mr M didnt have a genuine need for flexibility or control at the time and 
they didnt think transferring for greater death benefits was suitable - especially when it 
would likely mean hed be worse off in retirement as a result. They also said the fact the 
transfer value might have been high wasnt of itself a suitable reason to transfer. They said 
Mr M shouldve been advised to retain his DB scheme benefits  advice they said he 
wouldve likely accepted. 
IFM didnt reply to the Investigators findings.
Because it is assumed IFM disagrees, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Financial viability IFM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 51 at the time of the advice and IFM recorded that he wanted to retire at 65. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 62 (the schemes normal retirement 
age) was 5.5%. I assume this was on the assumption he took a full pension. No figure was 
produced based on him taking a lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little 
point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical 
yield was 5.5%, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the 
DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
IFM said in its suitability report that the required investment return was achievable over the 
investment term. But even if it was achievable, which Im not persuaded it was, this was the 
return required to simply match Mr Ms DB scheme benefits  i.e. just to stand still. To 
improve on the benefits available to him and to make the transfer worthwhile and financially 
viable, required consistent returns in excess of this. And in my view, to achieve this, it 
wouldve required Mr M to take on a greater level of risk than he indicated he was prepared 
to take.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr Ms best 
interests. But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
IFM recommended Mr M transfer because he wanted the flexibility to control and tailor the 
frequency and amount of income you receive from your pension fund in retirement to suit 
your circumstances, needs and tax position, as opposed to the pre-set (albeit guaranteed) 
income that your existing defined benefits pension would provide.
But Im not persuaded that Mr M knew with any degree of certainty whether he required 
flexibility in retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits at this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr M was 51 at the time of the advice. And while I accept its possible he might have given 
some thought to his retirement, given it was still many years away based on him wanting to retire at 65, I dont think he had anything that could reasonably be described as a set 
retirement plan. And because of this, Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr M had a strong 
need to vary his income throughout retirement. Mr Ms retirement income needs werent 
known. IFM said as much in its suitability report  it said: The actual amount you will take 
from your pension fund when you retire cannot be known at this stage... So, Im not 
persuaded Mr M could possibly know that hed need flexibility to vary his income when he 
didnt know what he needs were.
I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr M had a likely future need to take a cash 
lump sum and defer taking his income. Or a need for a cash lump sum greater than his DB 
scheme would provide. So, while I accept Mr M mightve liked the idea of flexibility  the 
ability to vary his income and have access to a potentially larger tax-free cash lump sum - it 
strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ms at the time.
It's my understanding that prior to meeting with IFM, Mr M received advice from another firm 
about consolidating his existing defined contribution / personal pensions into one plan. The 
nature of this type of pension means it already provided flexibility in how and when benefits 
can be accessed. So, in any event it seems Mr M didnt need to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits at this stage to a personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in 
retirement. But if Mr M did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he 
already had, I think this couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age. If Mr M 
opted into the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if 
his needs later demanded it. I think IFM couldve explained this more clearly to him.
As Ive already said, Mr M didnt know what his retirement income needs were. And IFM 
doesnt appear to have attempted to ascertain it by carrying out a detailed income and 
expenditure in retirement analysis. Without understanding this, I think it was too early for 
Mr M to give up the guaranteed income his DB scheme would provide when he didnt know 
what his needs in retirement would be. His DB scheme provided a guaranteed and 
escalating income for life, which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. And I think it 
wouldve provided a useful guaranteed income foundation along with his other DB scheme, 
which he could use his other pension provision, including his current workplace pension it 
was recorded he was contributing to, to build upon and likely meet his future income need. I 
think this was a more appropriate way for Mr M to plan to meet his future retirement income 
needs.
So I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have 
flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
IFM recorded that ensuring Mr Ms pension wouldnt die with him and allowing it to be fully 
inherited by his family was a key objective of his.
The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was likely an attractive 
feature to Mr M. I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of 
this. But the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think IFM fully 
explored to what extent he was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.The existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve 
been valuable to his family in the event of his death. I think IFM downplayed the importance 
and value of this. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
So while, the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, 
the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. As well as 
being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income 
Mr M drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have provided the legacy that Mr M may have 
thought it would. 
If Mr M had genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, IFM couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had significant disposable income through 
which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been considered on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little 
evidence IFM did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I dont think that insurance was properly explored 
as an alternative. And ultimately IFM should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the 
potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But IFM 
wasnt there to simply transact what he might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to achieve flexibility that Im not persuaded he needed. And the potential for 
higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. 
Also, just because Mr M and/or IFM believed the transfer value was high, Im not persuaded 
this alone was a suitable reason to transfer.
So, I think IFM shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, 
against advice to remain in the DB scheme. I say this because, while Mr M had some 
knowledge of investing, I dont think he was an experienced investor or someone who 
otherwise possessed the requisite knowledge, confidence or skill to go against the advice he 
was given, particularly in what is a complex area of financial advice. 
So, if IFM had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If IFM had 
explained that Mr M could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr M received from IFM was unsuitable 
for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. While the 
Investigator referred to a retirement age of 65, as I discussed and agreed with Mr M, I think 
fair compensation in this case means it should be based on the schemes normal retirement 
age (62) as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, IFM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IFM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
M's likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£190,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman