The complaint
Mrs Is complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to the service she received in 
obtaining replacement security details for her account.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs I and Santander, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
In summary, Mrs I reported the loss of her card and credentials to Santander on the 11 
January 2020 and was told it would take 6 days to receive replacements. Despite details 
being sent to Mrs I not all of them reached her, and she was unable to access her account 
until eventually receiving them all on the 13 February 2020. Mrs I is also unhappy with the 
way her complaint was dealt with by Santander, advising that a letter received from a 
complaints case manager was inaccurate and she was treated badly in branch.
Santander looked into Mrs Is complaint but rejected it, providing Mrs I with her rights to 
approach this service in their final response letters of the 21, 24 and 29 January. Mrs I was 
unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service to see if we could 
assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having done 
so, concluded that Santander hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint 
fairly.
Mrs I didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Santander has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
DRN-1791251The accepted facts are that Mrs I contacted Santander on the 11 January to report the loss 
of her card.  Her security credentials were removed from Santanders system and new ones 
ordered for her. She was told this would take 6 days. These were sent by Santander to Mrs I 
on the 13 January which is within that timescale. It is unfortunate that Mrs I did not receive 
them all, and I accept her word that she did not, since there is no evidence to suggest 
otherwise. Equally, I accept that Santander sent them out to her. So, I can only conclude that 
they became lost in transit, and that is not a failing on Santander's part.
From the evidence provided, I can see that on the 16 January Mrs I called Santander to say 
that two of the credentials had been received but not the third, and she was advised to call 
the following day if they had not arrived so new ones could be ordered. It was then on the 20 
January that Mrs I spoke to a complaints case manager GR to advise that she had not 
received the credentials. GR re-ordered them and advised it might take up to 6 days, despite 
Mrs I stating she wanted them by the next day. Unfortunately, that call was disconnected, 
but GR rang back the following day and Mrs I asked for the credentials to be sent by 
recorded delivery. GR confirmed he would make that request and the call became 
disconnected again. When GR called Mrs I back she said she did not wish to speak to him 
and terminated the call. 
On the 21 January the credentials were sent to Mrs I by recorded delivery and were received 
by her on the 24 January. As this information was sent by a courier and not recorded 
delivery, Mrs I had doubts about whether they were legitimate. I can understand that Mrs I 
would be perhaps surprised to receive couriered mail, rather than by recorded delivery as 
that was the method she was expecting, but I find no failing in service for using a courier. 
Santanders systems evidence reveals that Mrs I did not try to log into her account using 
those credentials, although Mrs I has said that they did not work. As a result of that Mrs I 
rang Santander once more and on this occasion was asked to visit a branch, which she did. 
New credentials were issued to Mrs I on the 7 February and when received she was then 
able to access her account.
As Santander delivered the new credentials to Mrs I on the 24 January I think they have 
again acted fairly and reasonably. I appreciate Mrs I was somewhat suspicious of the 
method of delivery, but I do not think that is poor service. In fact, the evidence shows that 
this was not the normal method of delivery for replacement credentials, but Santander had 
decided to make an exception for Mrs I at her request, and to ensure those credentials did 
not become lost in the post once more. I think that was very fair in the circumstances.
Mrs I has complained that when she spoke with GM on the 21 January she had asked to 
speak to a manager and was told that Santander didnt have any as they didnt operate like 
that. Mrs I feels this was untrue because she has through her own research found a 
manager of complaints at Santander, and has written to her. I have seen a copy of that letter 
dated the 28 January which sets out the history to her complaint and her dissatisfaction with 
Santanders complaints process and the handling of her complaint by GR and GM.
Whilst I am sorry to learn Mrs I is unhappy with the way Santander dealt with her complaint, 
this element of complaint is not one I can look into. Im afraid that the rules which govern 
what I can and cant look into say that I can only look at what are known as regulated 
activities, and unfortunately complaint handling is not one of those activities. As such Im not 
able to tell Santander how it should deal with complaints, nor can I make any order or award 
in respect of this, as our service doesnt regulate the banking industry. That is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Mrs I also complains that she was told by Santander that it would be this service who would 
supply her with new security credentials. I have no doubt this is what Mrs I believes she was told, but I find it inherently unlikely that Santander would advise her that, since this service 
simply has no way of obtaining those details, since only Santander would have them. 
Mrs I has raised concerns with the way she was dealt with by staff when she went into 
branch, but I cannot see that this has been put to Santander. I have certainly seen no 
response from them to such a complaint, and so that is a matter which will have to be dealt 
with as a separate complaint to this one.
Finally, I understand Mrs I has raised a service complaint about our investigator, and for the 
sake of clarity only, I must confirm that is not something I, as an ombudsman, deals with as it 
is dealt with in an entirely separate manner.
So, although Mrs I will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Santander has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Upon being notified by Mrs I that she required new 
security credentials, these were issued to her in the usual manner. It is most unfortunate 
they did not all reach her, but Santander acted fairly in providing replacements by couriering 
them. It is again unfortunate that those did not apparently work, although the balance of 
evidence shows they were not tried. Faced with these further difficulties it was appropriate to 
ask Mrs I to visit a branch in order to try to resolve the problem and thereafter the credentials 
were re-issued which resolved the issue entirely.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19August2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman