DRN-3484415
The complaint
Mr S complains that he has suffered distress and a loss of faith in Scottish Widows Limited 
(Scottish Widows) in relation to him receiving personal information relating to another 
customer in a letter sent to him.
What happened
Mr S received a letter in the post from Scottish Widows dated 29 October 2021 regarding a 
complaint he had raised with them. The envelope containing this letter also included details 
of another customers complaint and personal information relating to this customer.
Mr S then raised a further complaint with Scottish Widows claiming that he felt there had 
been a breach of confidentiality and data protection. Mr S said he was concerned that his 
data and security may have also been breached and that he had lost faith in Scottish 
Widows and their ability to look after his information properly.
Following the complaint, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr S to say that the complaint had been 
investigated and that they agreed with Mr S and wanted to put things right. Scottish Widows 
paid £100 to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused. They also explained that the 
error had occurred when a colleague had printed papers intended to be sent to Mr S and 
collected a stack of papers from a printer which included Mr Ss letter and the information of 
another customer.
In responding to the complaint, Scottish Widows also apologised and told Mr S that a breach 
had been raised in connection with the matter. They told Mr S that there was nothing to 
suggest that the personal data of Mr S had been breached. 
Mr S said that he was concerned about the data breach and that he was aware that £500 
had been offered to the party whose data was sent to Mr S. Mr S said he felt Scottish 
Widows should offer the same amount to him and that he wasnt happy with the offer of 
£100.
Our Investigators view was that:
Scottish Widows accept that another customers letter was sent to Mr S in error and that 
this letter contained personal information
The data breach was recorded and reported and feedback was provided to the complaint 
handler to prevent this from happening again
Scottish Widows had failed in their duty of care to all of their customers to ensure that 
personal information and data is protected
There was no evidence to support that Mr Ss data had been shared with a third party or 
that it had been breached in any way.
The apology and the compensation amount offered by Scottish Widows was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances
It was not unreasonable for Scottish Widows to offer a higher amount of compensation to 
the party whose data was breached
Scottish Widows have done what can be expected of them in this situation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view given by our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Ss complaint.
I have carefully considered what Mr S has said and have looked at the correspondence as 
well as Mr Ss response to the investigators view. Whilst I appreciate Mr S feels as though 
this is a serious breach and that Scottish Widows offer of compensation is not adequate, my 
view is that the complaint in relation to the data breach was thoroughly investigated and 
dealt with.
Scottish Widows have advised that the complaint has been looked into as well as the 
processing errors which lead to the breach. They have said that they would raise an 
investigation internally to look at the extent of the breach and to prevent something similar 
from happening in the future. Scottish Widows have also said that there is no reason to think 
that Mr Ss data was breached in the same or any other way.
I think this action is proportionate to the seriousness of the breach and is reasonable given 
the incident itself and the risks posed to Mr S and other customers of Scottish Widows.
Mr S has also said that he considers it reasonable for him to receive the same level of 
compensation as that awarded to the individual whose data was sent to Mr S. I do not agree 
with this position. Whilst the incident may have raised concerns for Mr S in relation to the 
security of his personal data, the customer whose data was actually breached should be 
treated in a different way given that they have been affected differently. The concerns Mr S 
may have had about his own data have been investigated by Scottish Widows and the 
compensation offered is I think a fair amount given how he has been affected by the 
incident. I do not see any reason as to why a higher level of compensation should be 
offered.
Finally, I would repeat the point made by the Investigator that the Financial Ombudsman 
does not have the power to issue fines or other penalties to companies like Scottish Widows 
for breaches of personal data.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023. 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman