DRN-4190778
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money she lost as the result of an 
investment scam.
What happened
All the details are well known to both parties and were set out in the investigators view of 31 
May 2023 - so I wont repeat them in full here. In summary, Ms A was the victim of an 
investment scam, with a company Ill call T, which resulted in her making the following 
payments from her newly opened Lloyds Mastercard credit card account.
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
payment Merchant Amount (£)Transaction 
fee (£)Running 
total
1 23 July 2018 Credit card AAA Trade £2,395.12 £70.65£2,465.77
2 12 September 2018 Credit card Fxplace.tradefxplace.t £224.29£6.61£2,696.67
3 12 September 2018 Credit card Fxplace.tradefxplace.t £670.20£19.77£3,386.64
                                                                                                                             
Total £3,289.61£97.03
£3,386.64
When Ms S reported the scam to Lloyds, it processed chargeback claims for all three 
disputed payments. Transactions 2 and 3 were successfully refunded but Transaction 1 was 
defended by AAATrades bank on the basis that Ms S received the services she paid for. 
Lloyds also considered whether it could apply Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 to this 
payment and it concluded it didnt apply. Unhappy with its response, Ms S referred her 
complaint to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case 
has been passed to me for determination.
Ive noted Ms S disputes a transaction of £1,999.82 to ProfitIX taken on 27 February 2020. 
Lloyds confirms there was no such transaction and there is no evidence of this payment on 
Ms S credit card statements. Ms S has not provided any other proof that it was made on her 
Lloyds credit card, so Ive not considered it any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Ms S authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by scammers into instructing Lloyds to make the payments. So although Ms S didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of her account, Ms S is presumed liable for her loss in the first 
instance. 
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. This means I think that Lloyds should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
As this was a newly opened credit card account, there isnt normal account spend to 
compare the transactions against. But I agree with our investigator that credit card accounts 
are normally used for larger one-off purchases. So when considering Transaction 1, whilst it 
utilised most of the credit card limit, it was sent to a legitimate merchant. In my judgement, it 
wasnt so unusual that Lloyds ought to have intervened before allowing it to be processed. 
Transactions 2 and 3 were refunded through the chargeback scheme but for the avoidance 
of doubt, Ive also considered whether they ought to have been recognised by Lloyds as 
unusual or uncharacteristic, as Ive noted the amounts were refunded but the transaction 
fees were not. I dont think either payment was unusual. They were made several months 
after Transaction 1 and were for much smaller amounts. I dont think either transaction would 
have warranted an intervention from Lloyds and therefore, I dont think Lloyds missed an 
opportunity to prevent any of Ms S losses. As I dont find that Lloyds missed an opportunity 
to intervene, I dont need to consider whether a meaningful warning would have made a 
difference. 
Recovery 
Having decided the above, I could only uphold this complaint if I thought Lloyds 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds and that this caused Ms S loss. Ill start with 
whether Lloyds did all it could to recover the funds in accordance with the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme. 
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Mastercard -
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Ms S.
Ive seen that Lloyds processed chargeback claims for all of the transactions. Transactions 2 
and 3 succeeded but Transaction 1 was defended. Lloyds couldnt process chargeback 
claims for the transaction fees as this is charged by it not the merchants bank, so these 
would always have been payable by Ms S. 
Ive seen that AAATrades bank defended the claim on the basis that Ms S received what 
shed paid for. That was, the purchase of crypto and the service of moving it onto a wallet of 
her choosing (with T). Its clear Ms S concerns are with T as she was scammed by them rather than AAATrade as they appear to have provided her with the services she requested. 
I therefore dont think Lloyds had any reasonable prospect of success by pursuing this 
chargeback claim it any further than it did. And so, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably 
by choosing to drop the claim after it was defended.  
Ive also considered whether Lloyds ought to have refunded any of Ms S transactions 
through section 75 claims. I dont find that it could have. For section 75 to apply, there must 
first be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. Secondly, the transaction in dispute must have 
financed that agreement and ultimately there must be a valid claim of misrepresentation or 
breach of contract in relation to the transaction. Consequential losses (like transaction fees) 
can also be considered. Here, Ms S agreement was with T and she said they scammed her. 
But as Ms S didnt use her Lloyds credit card to pay them directly, her claim fails at the first 
hurdle. That is the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement she seeks to rely upon doesnt include 
T as they werent the supplier in any of the transactions she made. 
Because of this, Lloyds cant be held jointly responsible for failings of T in accordance with 
section 75 and therefore, Im satisfied it doesnt apply to any of Ms S transactions or 
transaction fees. 
So whilst I empathise with the fact that Ms S fell victim to a cruel scam, I dont find that 
Lloyds is liable for preventing her losses, nor do I find that it could have done more than it 
did to recover more of her losses.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Ms S loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman