DRN-3064114
The complaint
Mr P complains that Fleet Mortgages Ltd didnt allow him to capitalise the payments 
he deferred by taking a covid related payment holiday on his buy to let mortgage. He 
also complains that Fleet Mortgages Ltd made it difficult to obtain the covid related 
payment holiday.
What happened
Mr P started a buy-to-let mortgage with Fleet in August 2018. The mortgage was for 
approximately £530,000 including fees, with a 25 year term, on an interest only 
basis.
In March 2020, Mr P called Fleet to request a covid related payment holiday. Fleet says it 
directed him to its website as it required him to complete a declaration form stating his 
tenant had been affected by covid. Mr P completed the declaration and forwarded a copy of 
the form to Fleet. Fleet then arranged the payment holiday which started from 1 April 2020.
Fleet wrote to Mr P on 12 June 2020 saying the payment holiday was due to end that 
month and outlining the repayment options should he not wish to repay the three months 
payments in one lump sum. It said he could repay that amount over three, six, nine or 
twelve months. Fleets letter also said:
If you are experiencing financial difficulties that prevent you from recommencing your 
mortgage repayment and/or repaying the deferred amount owed, please contact us to 
discuss your situation as soon as possible. Payment Holiday extensions and capitalising 
deferred payments will be considered on a case by case basis and will be subject to 
assessment of your financial circumstances.
Mr P called Fleet to discuss this and agreed to make the repayments over a 12 month 
period. But he says he feels Fleets approach was unreasonable as his other mortgage 
lenders have allowed the deferred payments to be repaid over the remaining term of the 
mortgage. He also said Fleet made it almost impossible to take a payment holiday in the 
first place.
Fleet says it spoke to Mr P on 29 June 2020 to confirm he had the option of paying this 
over a determined period or, if he was struggling financially, he could discuss capitalising 
the payments into his mortgage balance.
Our investigator didnt think Fleet acted unfairly. He said he thought Mr P was informed of 
the impact the payment holiday would have on his monthly payments and he agreed with 
Fleet how the balance would be repaid. He thought Fleet would have been able to 
capitalise the deferred payments if that was shown to be in the best interests of Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree. He said at no point was he ever offered the option to extend payments 
beyond 12 months. He said he called and spoke to a member of staff who said Fleet has 
to consider its shareholders. And only after accepting the repayment term of 12 months 
and referring the matter to us was there any mention of an extension.
As Mr P didnt agree, his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. To decide this complaint, Ive 
thought about whether Fleet made Mr P aware that he could capitalise the 
deferred payments and whether it made applying for the payment holiday 
unreasonably difficult for Mr P. More generally, Ive thought about whether its 
approach was or wasnt in line with the covid guidance to lenders issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr P says he asked Fleet about extending the repayment period of the deferred 
payments and was told Fleet has to think about its shareholders. Fleet says  on 29 June 
2020  he was given the option of repaying the deferred payments over a determined 
period or, if he was struggling financially, he could discuss capitalising the arrears into 
his mortgage balance.
I dont know whether both recollections are about the same call as Fleet have only been 
able to provide one call recording and neither recollection featured in that. However, it is 
clear from the letter sent to Mr P on 12 June 2020 that Fleet informed him payment holiday 
extensions and capitalising deferred payments would be considered on a case by case 
basis.
The FCAs guidance to lenders about covid related payment holidays doesnt say 
lenders should offer to capitalise deferred payments. Where it mentions capitalising 
deferred payments it says the lender should provide information about the full 
implications of capitalisation if that is what it intends to do.
It is clear from what Ive seen  particularly from Fleets letter dated 12 June 2020  
that capitalisation of the covid related deferred payments wasnt Fleets default 
position. Capitalising the deferred payments onto the balance results in more interest 
being paid on the mortgage over the whole term. And so its generally in the borrowers 
best interests to repay this amount as soon as theyre able to. In Mr Ps case, this was 
an interest only loan and capitalisation of the deferred payments would have increased 
the loan balance beyond that originally underwritten. Given that doing so would have 
meant other considerations would become relevant, such as loan to value thresholds 
and overall affordability (not just affordability in the short term), I think its reasonable 
that capitalisation wasnt Fleets default position. And Ive seen that it did offer this 
depending on individual circumstances, so I think its acted reasonably in that regard 
and, more generally, not against the guidance of the FCA.
Fleet has provided me with a copy of a declaration it asked Mr P to make before it would 
agree to his payment holiday request. Im unsure if that was what Mr P was referring to 
when he said Fleet made it almost impossible to apply as he hasnt expanded on that part 
of his complaint. Fleet asked Mr P to declare that the reason he wanted the payment 
holiday was because his tenant was experiencing covid related financial difficulty. I 
understand that was to ensure that, if his tenant was making rental payments, Mr P 
continued to make his mortgage payments. The FCAs guidance to lenders at the time 
didnt specifically deal with buy to let mortgages. Lenders werent expected to carry out 
investigations into the necessity of individual applications, but from what Ive seen, I dont 
think Fleet did that. The form Fleet asked Mr P to complete was available for download on its website and simple to complete. So, I dont think it was unnecessarily onerous or against 
the FCA guidelines.
Mr P applied for the payment holiday around the same time as the FCAs guidance was 
introduced  20 March 2020. Fleet agreed and implemented his payment holiday for 
Aprils payment. So, from what Ive seen, I dont think Fleet acted unreasonably at the 
time Mr P applied for the payment holiday.
Overall, I think Fleet did inform Mr P it would consider consolidating his deferred 
payments and I havent seen that it made applying for the payment holiday unreasonably 
difficult for Mr P. I think Fleet had acted fairly and generally in line with the FCAs 
guidance to lenders on covid related payment holidays
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Fleet Mortgages Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
Gavin Cook
 
Ombudsman