DRN-2630969
The complaint
Mr L complains that Halifax General Insurance Services Limited (Halifax) made it difficult for 
him to cancel his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had buildings and contents insurance with Halifax. On receipt of his annual renewal 
letter, he emailed Halifax to stop the renewal. Two days later he called to cancel the 
renewal, but Mr L says the agent asked him to call back on a different number during office 
hours. Mr L called back the next day and Halifax cancelled the policy renewal.
Six months later, Mr L complained to Halifax that it had tried to make it difficult for him to 
cancel so that hed give up trying. Halifax had no record of receiving the first call from Mr L 
but confirmed it cancelled the policy on the day of his second call. Mr L didnt think Halifax 
had properly looked into his complaint because it didnt find his first call, which he says was 
over 20 minutes long and supposed to be held on file. He asked for £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. She noted that Mr L hadnt 
called the number shown on his renewal letter, so she thought it was likely that his first call 
to Halifax was to the wrong department. Therefore, she thought it was reasonable that 
Halifax asked him to call back on a different number. And our investigator thought Halifax 
cancelled the policy promptly during Mr Ls second call. She didnt think compensation was 
warranted. 
Mr L didnt agree. He thought that Halifax should have a record of his first call, and he 
pointed out that if Halifax hadnt been obstructive, he wouldnt have needed to call a second 
time.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain.
Email request
Firstly, Mr L sent an email asking Halifax to stop the renewal of his home insurance policy, 
but it only cancelled the renewal when Mr L called, for a second time, three days later. I dont 
think this is evidence of obstruction on Halifaxs part because business response times to 
emails are often up to five working days. I can see the email was added to Mr Ls account 
notes and I have no reason to think that Halifax wouldve ignored it. As it is, Mr L contacted 
Halifax again, by phone, before it dealt with the email, so it no longer needed to respond to 
it. I think thats reasonable.
First call
Mr L provided details of the number he called, the date, the time and the name of the call 
handler to whom he spoke. He called a number different to that provided on his renewal 
letter and outside standard office hours. Halifax doesnt have a record of the call. 
I understand Mr Ls scepticism about the call recording not being available, but I think Halifax 
has responded fairly to this point. The call handler explained to Mr L that hed need to call 
back on a different number during business hours. Based on Mr Ls recollection of the call, 
the most likely scenario here is that the call handler couldnt access his policy because he 
was from a different area of the business, so I can see why it wouldnt have a record of the 
call on Mr Ls account. Halifax hasnt said Mr L didnt make the call; it said it cant trace it, 
and thats because it needs the phone number from which Mr L called to perform the search.
Mr L said Halifax provided him with the contact information he needed to cancel his policy on 
that first call so, based on what Ive seen here, I dont think Halifax has been obstructive.
Second call
Mr L called again the following day. Ive listened to the call recording and within two minutes 
of being transferred to the correct department for his policy type, Halifax had taken Mr L 
through security checks and confirmed it had cancelled his renewal. While Halifax did offer 
to look at his renewal price - which I think is standard business practice - once Mr L repeated 
his request to cancel, Halifax confirmed it had done so. I dont think its offer to review the 
renewal price amounts to obstruction.
In summary, Mr L made three requests to cancel his policy over a three-day period. On the 
third day, when he contacted Halifax on the correct number and made his request, it 
cancelled his renewal within minutes. I havent seen any evidence which suggests that 
Halifax tried to stop Mr L cancelling his policy, so I dont think the compensation Mr L asked 
for is warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman