DRN-4108976
The complaint
Ms R complains about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds decision to turn down her accidental 
damage insurance claim under a buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2022, Ms R arranged for her septic tank to be emptied. The water company that attended 
noticed the tank was damaged before carrying out any work. 
Ms R contacted her current insurer to make a claim. They turned this down, and said the 
damage mustve happened when the tank had been emptied previously (in October 2020), 
which predated the start of her current policy. As Ms R had been insured by Tesco when the 
tank was last emptied, she made a claim with Tesco.
Tesco turned down the claim. It thought Ms Rs current insurer should be responsible for 
accepting the claim. Unhappy with this, Ms R brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said it was accepted that the 
tank had suffered accidental damage, and he thought this most likely happened in October 
2020. As Tesco was on risk at this time, he recommended that Tesco accept the claim and 
put right the damage. 
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the drainage companys report. They said the property had a baffle and ball septic 
tank, and Ms R had arranged for the tank to be emptied in January 2022. When the tanker 
company attended to do so, they found damage in the tank. The drainage company carried 
out an inspection and said the baffle had collapsed and was floating on the surface. It was 
noted that the tank had previously been emptied in October 2020. The drainage company 
estimated a new tank and installation would cost around £13,000 plus VAT.
Tescos loss adjuster carried out their own inspection. They said there was no clear 
evidence that the damage occurred whilst the Tesco policy was in place. Though it was 
accepted that there was accidental damage to the baffle.
In cases such as this, Ive considered what damage occurred, and when it likely happened. 
Here, the accidental damage was to the baffle cone which caused it to collapse. The parties 
havent provided any supporting evidence to show why this might happen. I understand from 
my own research on the internet that this can happen when a tank is emptied. Ms Rs 
current insurer thought the damage likely happened when the tank was previously emptied.
When the tank was emptied in October 2020, the water company didnt report any problems 
with the baffle cone at this time. This would suggest that there werent any issues before the 
emptying took place. However, as Ms Rs representative says, the only object that entered 
the tank was the emptying hose, and so it seems likely the damage happened whilst the tank 
was being emptied without the water company realising this. 
No other object entered the septic tank between the dates it was emptied in October 2020 
and January 2022. So, on balance, I think its reasonable to conclude that the damage most 
likely happened when the tank was emptied in October 2020.
Theres nothing to suggest that the collapse of a baffle cone would happen gradually.
And if the damage happened as I think it did, in other words damaged by the hose when the 
tank was last emptied, then the damage would have started and stopped whilst Tesco was 
on risk. So I dont agree that Ms Rs current insurer should deal with the claim. Id only 
expect them to do so if the evidence supported that some of the damage happened after the 
policy with them had started. 
I therefore find that Tesco should deal with the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to deal 
with the claim, in line with the policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman