DRN-2772078
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to a delay in 
Barclays dealing with their mortgage rate switch application, and which they feel led to an 
increased mortgage payment in June 2020. They would like to be reimbursed the difference 
between what they paid in June, and what they should have paid had their application been 
dealt with prior to the June payment falling due.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T had a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Barclays. The agreed interest rate was 
to end on 3 May 2020. Barclays wrote to Mr T and Mrs T, by letter, dated 4 May 2020 to 
advise that their mortgage rate was coming to an end and would revert either to the 
appropriate tracker rate as outlined in their latest mortgage offer, or to Barclays current 
standard variable rate (SVR). Barclays explained that the new monthly payment would be 
£608.17 from 3 June 2020 as opposed to the previous contractual monthly sum of £231.87. 
It invited Mr T and Mrs T to switch to any product in their current range if they so wished.
Mr T responded on 8 May requesting a switch, on-line, prompting Barclays to issue the 
necessary paperwork to him by post, which he received on 13 May. He returned the 
documentation on 14 May, but Barclays did not receive it until 3 June. This resulted in 
Barclays collecting the June mortgage payment (also on 3 June) at the higher SVR which Mr 
T and Mrs T feel is unfair.
Barclays have said that it is not required to contact their customers to advise them when a 
BTL mortgage rate is coming to an end, although as a matter of practice they do tell their 
customers that their payments will alter. Further that Mr T and Mrs T would have known of 
the expiry date for their existing rate since this would have been advised to them when they 
took the mortgage out. Whilst Barclays have not materially challenged that Mr T and Mrs T 
sent the paperwork back on 14 May, (they feel it was the 15 May) they have been clear in 
stating they did not receive it until 3 June. Barclays have suggested the delay could have 
been caused by disruptions to the postal service. But, having received the documents 
Barclays say they then processed them in time for the next mortgage payment in July.
Barclays do not consider that they have acted unfairly and have not upheld Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint.
Mr T and Mrs T were unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. 
Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
The accepted facts are that Mr T and Mrs Ts BTL mortgage rate came to an end on 3 May. 
It is reasonable to expect that Mr T and Mrs T would have known that since that information 
would have been given to them when they took that mortgage rate out. As this mortgage 
was a BTL mortgage Barclays were under no duty to warn Mr T and Mrs T that the rate was 
to end. However, they were made aware that their payments were to change and invited to 
switch rates.
I accept that Mr T and Mrs T returned their documentation for the new rate on the 14 or 15 
May. I have no reason to doubt them. I also accept that Barclays did not receive that 
documentation until 3 June. Similarly, I have no reason to doubt Barclays account either. 
Barclays have suggested that there may well have been problems with the postal service, 
and of course I note that the country was, at that time, experiencing extreme difficulties as a 
result of the pandemic in so far as businesss operational abilities were concerned. Whilst Mr 
T and Mrs T might be somewhat suspicious of Barclays account, I have seen no evidence to 
suggest that it has not been truthful. Indeed, I note that when Barclays sent Mr T and Mrs T 
a letter in response to his complaint they did not receive that letter and it had to be sent 
again. On this basis I think it is more likely than not that the delay in Barclays receiving Mr T 
and Mrs Ts documentation was probably as a result of postal difficulties.
Having accepted that Barclays did not receive the documentation until 3 June then this was 
too late to affect the switch in time for the June payment. The June payment was made on 
the 3 June in any event and so the time it took Barclays to put the switch in place thereafter 
is largely immaterial since the switch was effective for the next payment date in July. And the 
payment in July was at the rate Mr T and Mrs T wanted. And I know Mr T and Mrs T feel 
Barclays have profited from the situation by not offering to backdate the rate, but I dont 
agree. The rate Mr and Mrs T have been charged is the rate they wanted and was applied 
as soon as it possibly could have been after Barclays received the documentation on 3 June.
So, although Mr T and Mrs T will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here because I dont see that they have done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman