DRN-4094590
The complaint
Mr M complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc handled a glass claim made on his 
commercial motor insurance policy. He wants to be reimbursed for his repair costs. 
What happened
Mr M made a claim for glass replacement for his front windscreen and sliding door glass. But 
Mr M was unhappy that the technician caused damage to the vans side panel and black 
trims. He also said that the windscreen glass replacement let water in, and this damaged his 
clock and radio.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
evidence showed that damage had been caused to the side panel and trims and West Bay 
should reimburse Mr M for their repair. West Bay returned to refit the windscreen. But the 
Investigator thought there was evidence that the clock and radio had been damaged after 
the fitting. 
West Bay said this could have been prevented if Mr M had allowed the technician to refit the 
glass on an earlier visit. But there had been an altercation and its service had been 
withdrawn. She thought it was entitled to do this. But she thought it should have provided an 
alternative for Mr M to have the job completed. So she thought it was liable for this further 
damage and should reimburse Mr M for the repair or replacement. 
West Bay replied that Mr M should have told it that the van had had a recent respray and it 
would have delayed replacing the side panel to avoid glass sticking to the paint. It also 
thought most of the scratches had been caused by the glass breaking. West Bay offered to 
refund Mr Ms policy excess to cover the damage to his clock and radio. It said it replaced 
the trims with new clips, but Mr M said it hadnt replaced the trims. As West Bay didnt agree, 
the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has described his frustration and stress caused by the attempts to have his glass 
replaced, the rectification work and the water ingress. I was sorry to hear that hes needed to 
take time off work.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs. And, in this case, Im satisfied that West Bay hasnt justified its decision. Ill now 
explain why I think this. 
I can see that West Bay eventually replaced the windscreen as it was leaking. It would have 
done this earlier, but the technician and Mr M had an altercation and West Bay refused 
further service. I wasnt present, so I cant say what happened. But I think West Bay later 
reasonably took responsibility for the replacement after Mr M reported the leak. 
West Bay said the damage to the side panel was pre-existing and caused by the glass 
initially breaking, not during its repair. But Im not satisfied that this is supported by its own 
evidence. I accept that there were some previous scratches, as shown in its video taken 
before the work. But West Bays technicians report states that the damage was caused 
during the repair as glass was embedded in the paint. And this is supported by Mr Ms video 
and that he reported the damage on the same day the work was done.
West Bay said Mr M should have mitigated his losses by telling it of the recent respray. But I 
dont think this is fair because the technician went ahead with the work regardless. So Im 
satisfied that West Bay is responsible for rectification of this damage and should reimburse 
Mr M for its cost, on production of evidence of its repair. 
Mr M said the trims were scratched when they were removed and not then protected from 
damage. I can see that West Bay intended to replace these, but this wasnt done because of 
the altercation. I havent seen evidence that they were later replaced. So I think West Bay 
has accepted liability for this damage and should reimburse Mr M for the cost of replacing 
them. 
Mr M said the vans clock and radio were damaged by water ingress due to the poor fitting of 
the windscreen. West Bay said these werent part of the original complaint. But I can see 
that they were raised by Mr M when he complained to us and so were brought to West Bays 
attention. It hasnt provided a final response letter about them, despite being given this 
option, but it has commented on these issues. So I can see no reason why I cant consider 
them here.
West Bays evidence shows that it accepted this damage had been caused by the fitting and 
it offered to waive Mr Ms policy excess to cover the repair of the radio. But Im not satisfied 
that this is sufficient. Mr M has provided evidence showing both clock and radio to be 
undamaged before the repairs. 
I accept that West Bay declined to rectify the windscreen repair after the altercation, and this 
made matters worse. But it didnt then offer Mr M a reasonable alternative to repair damage 
it had caused as I think it should have. So, to restore his position, I think West Bay should 
reimburse him for the cost of repairing or replacing the clock and radio. 
Mr M wanted a refund of his policy excess. But I dont think this is fair and reasonable as he 
has used his policy and the excess is always the first part of a claim to be paid.
Putting things right
I require West Bay Insurance Plc to reimburse Mr M for the cost hes incurred to repair the 
further damage to the vans side panel, the cost of repairing or replacing the trims, and the 
cost of repairing or replacing the clock and radio, on production of reasonable evidence for 
these.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West 
Bay Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman