DRN-1742673
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank Plc wouldnt let him withdraw the amount of money he 
wanted from his account, and he feels they acted unreasonably.
What happened
Mr C had an existing bank account with TSB with a substantial credit balance. In mid-
January 2020, Mr C went to his local branch as he wanted to withdraw £3,000 in cash. 
However, when Mr C tried to withdraw the cash, the TSB member of staff asked him what he 
intended to use the money for and when he explained why, she referred this to the branch 
manager who declined to release the money.
Mr C was unhappy as hed made a fifty-mile round trip to withdraw the money, and he felt 
that as it was his money and he should be able to withdraw it without being questioned. The 
branch manager explained to Mr C that as part of TSBs security checks to prevent fraud 
and protect their customers, they needed to ask these questions. And based on what hed 
told them, they didnt feel it was appropriate to give him the money. 
Mr C remained unhappy, and said he intended to close his account. The manager offered to 
close Mr Cs account and provide him with a cheque for the balance, but Mr C declined as 
he had outstanding transactions. So, he raised a complaint.
TSB didnt uphold the complaint. They said their staff had a duty of care to their customers to 
protect them from fraud, so theyd declined to release the money to him, which was in-line 
with their process. They also said that they would be happy to release the money to Mr C if 
he could provide evidence on what he wanted it for. 
Mr C didnt agree. He also felt hed been left with no option but to use his local ATM to 
withdraw cash which was several miles away and inconvenient. So, he asked this service to 
look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought that TSB had 
acted in-line with their procedures. She also noted that TSB had an obligation to protect their 
customers money, and she felt theyd acted reasonably by refusing Mr Cs withdrawal based 
on the information hed provided and the type of transactions he would usually make. So, 
she didnt agree that TSB had made an error and caused Mr C inconvenience. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said that it wasnt out of character for him to make large withdrawals, 
and he didnt think it was fair that the bank could stop him having his own money. So, he 
asked for an ombudsman to look into his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Mr C is has told us hes unhappy that TSB stopped him withdrawing his own money, and 
that he should be able to spend it as he chooses without being questioned. I recognise 
Mr Cs frustration that its his money which TSB are holding, but I dont think they acted 
unreasonably by refusing his request. Ill explain why. 
Looking at TSBs procedures for large cash withdrawals, Ive seen that as part of their fraud 
prevention measures, cashiers are expected to ask their customers what the cash 
withdrawal is for. And if they are concerned about the answers they receive from the 
customer, they will escalate this to a manager who will ask further questions to decide 
whether or not to release the funds. 
I can see that on this occasion, both the members of staff who spoke to Mr C were unhappy 
with the answers he gave, so they followed their procedure and declined the cash withdrawal 
request  which they are authorised to do. Ive looked at the system notes which detail the 
answers the staff were given, and based on what Ive seen, I can understand why TSB had 
concerns about giving Mr C a large amount of cash. As TSB have a duty to act in the best 
interests of their customers, I dont think theyve made an error or treated Mr C unreasonably 
based on the information they were given.
Mr C said that hes previously made this type of withdrawal and isnt unusual for him so it 
shouldnt have been refused on this occasion. However, Ive looked at Mr Cs previous bank 
statements, and although there was a previous large withdrawal in both 2018 and 2019, this 
was only on one occasion per year. So, I dont agree this type of transaction is usual for him. 
I also think its likely Mr C gave a different response to the staff who carried out the 
transactions in 2018 and 2019 which meant they were happy to release the funds to him. So, 
based on what Ive seen I think it was reasonable for TSB to ask Mr C further questions and 
on this occasion decline his request based on the information he provided.
Mr C told us TSB wouldnt allow him to withdraw cash from his local branch. However, I 
havent seen any evidence thats the case. I recognise that Mr C may feel he is unable to 
withdraw cash from the local branch as he doesnt want to answer questions about what the 
money is for. But this is part of TSBs procedures to protect their customers, and its not for 
me to tell a business what checks they should carry out. I acknowledge that Mr C feels hes 
been caused inconvenience as hes only been able to withdraw the maximum cash amount 
from his local ATM  which has meant frequent visits and a four-mile round trip. But I cant 
say that TSB have prevented Mr C withdrawing money from the branch or that their actions 
leading to Mr Cs decision to use the ATM were incorrect. 
I recognise that Mr C feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I cant say TSB have done anything wrong. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman