DRN-3830747
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Services Limited unfairly added an excess to his policy at 
renewal.
What happened
Mr S had a British Gas home emergency insurance policy. His policy was due for renewal in 
April 2022. A few weeks before that, British Gas sent Mr S a renewal quote. Mr S contacted 
British Gas via its online chat function on 31 March 2022 to discuss the quote.
During the webchat, Mr S asked British Gas to reduce its quote. The online agent was able 
to do this, Mr S accepted the new quote, and British Gas sent him his new policy documents.
In May 2022, Mr S made an emergency call out under his policy and was charged a £60 
excess. He complained to British Gas. He said, in summary:
British Gas renewed his policy on the same terms as previous years.
He had a zero excess in previous years.
The British Gas agent didnt mention the excess during their webchat so its clear the 
new quote was with a zero excess.
He shouldnt have had to pay a £60 excess for the emergency call out.
British Gas told Mr S it could remove the excess from his policy and refund the £60 he paid 
for the call out, but this would increase his premium. It gave him £20 to apologise for a 
communication failing when dealing with his complaint.
Mr S didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants British Gas to 
honour the price it quoted, apply a zero excess, and refund the £60 he paid in May 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She reviewed a 
transcript of the webchat and was satisfied thered been no discussion of the excess. She 
thought the new excess was clearly set out in the renewal documents and Mr S could have 
queried this before renewing.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the transcript of the webchat, provided by Mr S. Neither Mr S nor the British 
Gas agent mentioned the excess. Mr S asked the agent to Please confirm cover I will be 
getting. The agent told him: Discount is applied an email and a letter will be sent within 7 to 
10 business days regarding discount applied. So Im satisfied there was no discussion of 
the excess or, importantly, any agreement that it would remain at zero at renewal. Im also 
satisfied that the agent told Mr S that details of his cover would be in a letter hed receive 
within two weeks.
British Gas emailed Mr S this letter on 1 April 2022. Page 1 of the letter says: You can see 
how your renewal price has been worked out on page 3. Youll also find the usual terms and 
conditions, and a summary of whats included in your cover. Page 3 quotes the renewal 
price. Highlighted next to this is: £60.00 excess.
In my opinion, the letter is clear, well set out, and contains the key information about the 
renewal, including the excess. I appreciate that Mr S says he trusted British Gas so didnt 
read this letter. And that hed had a zero excess in previous years. However, the agent told 
him details of his cover would be in the letter, so I think it was in Mr Ss interests to read it. I 
dont accept that not reading a policy document is a reasonable excuse for not meeting its 
terms.
British Gas acknowledged that its agent applied an excess to Mr Ss quote to try to reduce it 
but failed to tell Mr S hed done this. That wasnt good practice and the agent should have 
made it clear to Mr S that hed added an excess to get a lower quote. However, Mr S would 
have seen this if hed read his renewal letter. Mr S says the lack of discussion about the 
excess means the renewal was to be without excess. I dont agree.
Finally, British Gas told us that it wouldnt have offered Mr S such a low quote with a zero 
excess. Im satisfied that if Mr S had spotted that an excess had been added to his policy, 
his quote would have increased. So I think British Gas offer to remove the excess and 
refund the £60 he paid for the emergency call out, but increase his premium as per its initial 
quote, is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman