DRN-1514017
The complaint
Mr N complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) mishandled his voluntary termination 
request in regard to a car finance agreement and overcharged him for damages.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr N acquired a car funded by a hire-purchase finance agreement with PSA. 
I gather he encountered some financial difficulties and in October 2018 he made enquiries 
about voluntarily terminating (VT) his agreement. The business records show that a quote 
was sent on 25 October. He was told he had a shortfall of £136.33 at that point.
On 18 December he called to begin the VT process and PSA sent him a quote. Mr N didnt 
receive this and contacted PSA in early January and it emailed him the relevant paperwork. 
It followed this up with emails and texts. In late January PSA hadnt receive the forms, but Mr 
N says he posted them. On 13 February PSA contacted Mr N to say it has received the 
application to VT, but he needed to pay £79 collection fee. 
The car was collected in mid-February by an agent acting for PSA.  The collection report 
notes two damaged alloys and a dent for which Mr N was charged £170. PSA subsequently 
reduced this by 25% as a goodwill gesture.
Mr N acquired a replacement car a week after contacting PSA to ask for VT and he says 
PSA failed to let him have proof of his no claims and as a result he had to pay an additional 
£300.
PSA rejected his complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that PSA had 
explained that when the voluntary termination was issued on 18 December 2018 the quote 
was only valid until next payment was due. When the VT was validated on 14 February 2019 
the December and January payment were payable, totalling £687.94.
She noted PSA had sent texts and emails and when he contacted it on 2 January 2019; it 
agreed to send the forms by email. In late January when it hadnt received the forms it sent 
duplicates. PSAs records show the VT request was only received in early February. She 
thought PSA had made several attempts to get the paperwork to process his request and 
she didnt believe it had done anything wrong.
She also considered the damage report and concluded PSA was entitled to charge Mr N 
£170 and noted it had made a goodwill gesture to reduce this figure. As far as the insurance 
matter was concerned PSA had provided funding for this as part of the agreement, but it 
wasnt responsible for the policy and it was up to Mr N to contact the insurer direct to obtain 
his no claims details. 
Mr N didnt agree and said he hadnt used the car in the two months he had waited for it to 
be collected. He also said that PSA could have dealt with his original request by email rather 
than relying on post and he had asked it to do so in his initial call. He also said the fact PSA 
had made a goodwill gesture was an admission of culpability. In addition, he disputed the 
quote given in October which said he was £136.33 short of having paid 50% of the 
agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the arguments put forward by Mr N, but I dont consider I can uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why.
Let me deal with the failure of PSA to provide details of Mr Ns no claims bonus. Its role in 
the transaction was to fund the money to pay for the car and to fund the insurance policy Mr 
N took out with a third party. That party may have been connected to PSA in some way, but 
PSA wasnt the insurer and it had no involvement in Mr Ns no claims bonus. I cannot hold it 
to blame for something for which it had no responsibility. 
On the matter of the method by which it required Mr N to claim VT it is open to the business 
to use whatever processes it deems suitable for dealing with such requests. It was entitled to 
ask for the application to be put in writing and the fact it agreed to accept email subsequently 
to assist Mr N does not mean that it was wrong to ask for a wet signature. Nor does its 
goodwill offer amount to an admission of guilt. A goodwill gesture is an offer without the 
acceptance liability.
Having reviewed the businesss records, I am satisfied the paperwork was sent to Mr N and 
why he didnt receive this is unknown. Nor can I say why his first application went astray. 
What I can say is that PSA made numerous attempts to contact him to help speed up the 
process and as such I cannot see that it has done anything wrong.  
Mr N suggests that PSA calculations made in October were wrong. I am not persuaded they 
were. In his calculation he has included the monthly payments for the finance to pay off both 
the car loan and the insurance loan, but he has failed to add the insurance loan to the 
original debt. I have seen nothing that would lead me to conclude that PSA had made an 
error. In any event it was open to Mr N to VT the agreement in October and pay the 
outstanding balance of £136.33. He didnt have to wait until he had paid 50%.
I appreciate Mr N says he didnt use the car while he was waiting for the VT to go through, 
but it was in his possession and PSA didnt have access to its asset and so I consider it fair 
he pay the sum due for that period.
Finally, I have looked at the collection report and like our investigator I am satisfied the 
damage went beyond fair wear and tear as set out in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association guidelines and so the charge was correct.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman