DRN-3754272
The complaint
A company that I will call W complains about the decision of Society of Lloyds to decline its 
claim for losses caused by business interruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended as a summary of the key events in relation to this complaint. 
Various third-parties have been involved in the complaint, but for the sake of simplicity, I will 
just refer to Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) and W. Any reference to Society of Lloyds or Lloyds 
in this decision includes the underwriters of Ws policy and their agents.
W owns property which is commercially rented to third parties, the tenants. The property is 
a public house, which is operated by the tenant. W held a commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by Lloyds. The cover provided included a section on business interruption. 
Following the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and related government-imposed restrictions, 
W contacted Lloyds to claim for its loss of income. Lloyds declined the claim. Ultimately, this 
decline was because the insured premises had not been closed as a result of damage, that 
the disease cover provided by the policy was limited to a specified list of diseases not 
including COVID-19, and that COVID-19 was not a localised danger or disturbance. Lloyds 
did offer W £450 compensation for issues with the handling of the claim. 
W remained unhappy and brought its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
Investigator sent W his opinion that he didnt think Lloyds had incorrectly declined the claim. 
W didnt agree though and its complaint has ultimately been passed to me for a decision. 
Since the Investigators initial view, further correspondence has been exchanged between 
our Service and the parties, but it is not necessary in this decision to expand on all of this 
this. However, I will note that as I felt there were slightly different reasons for the decision I 
have made, than the Investigator gave, I did contact W to explain these.
In summary, I said that Ws insured business is that of property rental. And I had not been 
provided with any evidence that made me think this business  rather than that of the 
tenants  had been interrupted by an insured event. I said that, whilst I had not seen the 
tenancy agreement W had with its tenants, standard forms of these agreements tend to say 
that the need for tenants to pay rent is only suspended where there is damage to the rental 
property. So, if W had a similar agreement, there would not be cover for an event  such as 
the pandemic  that did not cause damage to property. 
I invited W to provide any further evidence, including a copy of its tenancy agreement. 
However, W has not responded with any further comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the impact the COVID-19 pandemic has had 
on W, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
The policy W held provided cover for business interruption and said:
If any building or other property used by you at the premises for the purpose of the 
business suffers damage by any of the covers specified in the schedule and there is 
a consequential loss, we will pay you for each item in the schedule the amount of the 
loss
The policy then set out a number of standard covers, including for events such as flood, 
fire, theft, etc. None of these related to the circumstances of the pandemic. And I do not 
consider that the pandemic, or related government restrictions, caused damage to buildings 
or property. 
The policy then went on to list a number of extensions to this cover. The majority of these 
related directly to the impact on the policyholders own business  which was, in the case of 
W, the business of renting commercial property. I do not consider the ability of W to rent the 
premises was directly impacted by the government-imposed restrictions. None of the 
regulations or other measures imposed a restriction on a commercial landlords right or 
ability to rent its property.
The policy did also include an extension to the cover that related specifically to situations 
which might have been included in a relevant tenancy agreement as being capable of 
leading to a reduction or suspension of rent. This was the contingency rent clause.
Whilst it is clear the business of Ws tenants would likely have been impacted by 
government-imposed restrictions, whether or not this impacted Ws ability to rent the 
premises is something that the tenancy agreement would set out. So, it is necessary to 
consider the likely content of Ws tenancy agreement to see whether any of the situations 
that would have caused an interruption to Ws tenants business, or that were outlined in the 
contingency rent clause, are those for which provision has been made.
Before moving on to consider the tenancy agreement, I will say for the sake of completeness 
that a couple of the clauses in the policy refer to cover relating to notifiable diseases. 
However, this cover is limited to a specified list of diseases that does not include COVID-19. 
As the general situation was caused by COVID-19, and this is not a disease included within 
this specific list, these clauses would not mean Ws claim ought to have been met  
regardless of whether the tenancy agreement referred to situations where the existence of 
such cover meant rent could be suspended. 
I have not seen the tenancy agreement relating to Ws business. However, it would likely set 
out how the property would be rented and when rent was payable. Where rent continued to 
be payable under the terms of the agreement, I consider the business of renting out the 
property was not interrupted.
Tenancy agreements can come in different forms and with different clauses. However, 
examples of tenancy agreements I have seen and that I understand are fairly standard, 
include the following clause relating to the suspension of rent:
5.5 Suspension of the Rent
5.5.1 Events giving rise to suspension
If and whenever the Premises or any part of them are damaged or destroyed by one or more of the Insured Risks except one against which insurance may not ordinarily 
be arranged with a substantial and reputable insurer for properties such as the 
Premises unless the Landlord has in fact insured against that risk so that the 
Premises or any part of them are unfit for occupation or use, and payment of the 
insurance money is not wholly or partly refused because of any act or default of the 
Tenant or anyone at the Premises expressly or by implication with his authority then 
the provisions of clause 5.5.2 are to have effect.
5.5.2 Suspending the Rent
In the circumstances mentioned in clause 5.5.1 the Rent, or a fair proportion of it 
according to the nature and the extent of the damage sustained, is to cease to be 
payable until the Premises, or the affected part, have been rebuilt or reinstated so as 
to render the Premises, or the affected part, fit for occupation and use, or until the 
end of 3 years from the destruction or damage, whichever period is the shorter, the 
proportion of the Rent suspended and the period of the suspension to be determined 
by the Surveyor acting as an expert and not as an arbitrator
I have invited W to confirm if its tenancy agreement differs from this, but it has not done so. 
So, I consider its reasonable to assume Ws agreement is of a similar form.
This standard form of tenancy agreement requires there to have been damage or destruction 
to the premises. COVID-19 did not cause damage or destruction to property such as the 
premises. 
I am required to consider each complaint on its own circumstances. But this includes taking 
into account relevant law. I consider a couple of court judgments to be of particular 
relevance; Commerz Real Investmentgesellschaft MBH v TFS Stores Ltd [2021] EWHC 863 
(Ch) and Bank of New York Mellon (International) Ltd v Cine-UK Ltd [2022] EWCA Civ 1021.
These judgments considered whether rent was due from businesses which were interrupted 
due to the pandemic. And considered tenancy agreements with similar clauses to that 
above. The courts found that the suspension of rent (rent cesser) clauses only applied where 
there was physical damage. And that the relevant insurance the landlords had only provided 
cover for loss of rent to the landlord where the tenant was not legally obliged to pay the rent, 
rather than where the tenant chose not to pay. Whilst these judgments were decided on their 
own facts, as I say, I am required to take into account relevant law and I consider that the 
same principles apply here.
From a practical point of view, it would make sense that a landlord need only to provide for 
rent to be suspended where there was an event within the control of the landlord to resolve. 
For example, if the property is damaged by a flood, it would be for the landlord to restore the 
property to an appropriate condition and until this is done it would not be appropriate for 
them to charge rent. It is for the landlord to provide the property in an appropriate material 
condition. However, where an event has taken place over which the landlord has no control 
and which did not impact the material condition of the property, such as the 
government-imposed restrictions, it would not appear reasonable for a tenant to hold the 
landlord responsible for resolving this, and rent would remain payable. It would be for the 
tenant to take out their own insurance against such events happening.
Given the courts determined that the terms in tenancy agreements of the form set out above 
required there to have been damage, and there was no damage in the circumstances of Ws 
claim, I am satisfied that if W uses a similar tenancy agreement, there was not an insured 
interruption to their business. Rent would have continued to be payable, so the business of 
renting the property was not interrupted.W has not said that its tenancy agreement differs from the above. So, I consider, based on 
the evidence available to me, it is most likely W has a similar term in its agreement and so 
the principles above apply to its complaint. It follows that I dont consider Lloyds acted 
inappropriately by declining the claim.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Lloyds should have met Ws claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for it and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman