DRN-2602748
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way Rock Insurance Services Limited has administered a
travel insurance policy which they bought from it. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an annual policy through Rock on 5 October 2019. They were due to
go on a 39-day trip abroad on 5 January 2020. They noticed that the policy provided cover
for a maximum trip length of 32 days. So Mr M called Rock in early December 2019 to ask
whether the policy cover could be extended to 39 days, to ensure their full trip was covered.
Rocks call handler told Mr M that shed need to check with the policy insurer whether this
amendment could be made and that shed call him back within 24 to 48 hours if the insurer
could help. Mr and Mrs M didnt receive anything further from Rock, so they assumed the
amendment had been made. They travelled abroad as planned on 5 January 2020.
Unfortunately, Mr M became unwell while they were away and was admitted to hospital.
Ultimately, he had to be repatriated back to the UK. Mr and Mrs M made a claim for the
medical expenses costs on their travel insurance policy. But the insurer turned down the
claim. It said that because the trip was for longer than 32 days, there was no cover available
at all under the policy. So Mr and Mrs M have been left thousands of pounds out of pocket
for the costs Mr M incurred.
Mr and Mrs M were very unhappy with the way Rock had administered their policy. They
said theyd been led to believe that the trip length had been extended. They asked us to look
into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld in part. She felt it was
understandable that theyd considered the extension had been approved. And she also felt
that the call handler shouldve told Mr M that he wouldnt be covered at all if his trip
exceeded 32 days. She was persuaded theyd have sought alternative cover that did suit
their needs if the call handler had done so. She recommended that Rock should pay Mr and
Mrs M £150 compensation.
Rock agreed with the investigators findings.
Mr and Mrs M didnt. They said that if Rock had told them they wouldnt be covered, theyd
have definitely taken out alternative cover. They didnt think it was unreasonable to assume
theyd still be covered, as the call handler hadnt suggested otherwise. They felt £150
compensation was unreasonable, given the financial losses theyd incurred. They pointed
out that Mr Ms illness and repatriation happened well within the 32-day trip limit.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that I was only considering Rocks administration of the policy. I explained that if Mr and Mrs 
M were unhappy with their insurers decision to turn down the claim, theyd need to make a 
separate complaint to the insurer. I set out the reasons why I thought Rocks offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. I said:
Ive listened carefully to the call between Mr M and Rocks call handler. Im satisfied that Mr
M was aware of the trip length limit and that he knew the policy wasnt sufficient for the
holiday. I also think Mr M made clear to the call handler what policy amendments he was
seeking.
Its possible there was a misunderstanding between Mr M and the call handler. But Im
satisfied that the call handler did tell Mr M that she couldnt change the policy herself and
that his request would need to be referred on to the underwriter. She also said that if the
insurer agreed to help with the request and it was a yes, shed call Mr and Mrs M back. She
suggested it would take around 24-48 hours. So I dont think the call handler did give the
impression that the amendment would be done.
I accept it mightve been helpful if the call handler had mentioned that the policy wouldnt
cover the trip at all if the extension wasnt given. And she couldve offered a single trip policy.
But at this point, the call handler was simply making an enquiry to the insurer on Mr and Mrs
Ms behalf about extending the trip, she wasnt making a definitive statement that it couldnt
be done. And even if she had explained about the potential impact of the trip length on
cover, as Mr M appears to have understood that the amendment had been actioned, Im not
persuaded that hed have done anything differently.
Its clear that following the call, Mr and Mrs M heard nothing more from Rock. Given theyd
been told they should expect a call back within 24 to 48 hours if the request had been
actioned, I think it would've been reasonable for them to chase this up. They also didnt
receive any payment requests for the extra cover or any documentation to sit alongside their
policy schedule to indicate that any such additional cover had been agreed. So I think it
mightve been reasonable for them to get in touch with either Rock or the insurer ahead of
their departure before travelling.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Rock made such significant errors that it ought
to step into the shoes of the insurer and look at the claim. It acknowledges it wouldve been
best practice to offer a single trip policy though and its agreed to pay Mr and Mrs M
compensation of £150. Im currently satisfied this is fair and reasonable to recognise the
shortcomings in the service it provided. So Im planning to direct Rock to pay Mr and Mrs M
this amount.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence they wanted me to take into account.
Rock didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs M confirmed theyd received my provisional findings and told us that they were 
going to make a new complaint about the insurers decision to turn down their claim. If they 
are unhappy with the outcome of that complaint, we may potentially be able to consider a 
new complaint about the insurers decision on their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with any new evidence or arguments to consider, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. This means that Im still satisfied that, for the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Rocks offer to pay Mr and Mrs M £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
 My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Rocks offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
I direct Rock Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman