DRN-2499278
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that she was unable to log in to her credit card account online with Bank 
of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (Bank of Ireland) between 
January and April 2020
.
What happened
Miss M says that she was unable to log in to view her credit card account with Bank of 
Ireland during the four months from January to April 2020 and had to call the helpline to get 
access. 
Bank of Ireland said it couldnt identify any system wide issues, and thought the problem was 
specific to Miss M, and could be due to the use of incorrect details, or browser or internet 
issues. Miss M had further issues in May for which Bank of Ireland offered £20 
compensation.
Miss M was unhappy with this and brought the case to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the log in records provided by Bank of Ireland and saw that there had been a 
number of failed log in attempts, resulting in Miss M being locked out of her account. He also 
saw that her password had been reset several times. Our investigator couldnt see any 
evidence of system wide issues and agreed with Bank of Ireland that the issue was likely to 
be specific to Miss M. He didnt think Bank of Ireland needed to do any more.
Miss M was unhappy with this, and so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M had issues logging in to her account, but Bank of Ireland says there were no system 
wide issues at the time, so the issues were particular to Miss M.
I have looked at the log in records for Miss Ms account and can see that Miss M was able to 
gain access in January, but in February and April, when she kept trying to log in, she was 
locked out of her account, and had to reset her password.  I can also see that when she did 
gain access, a payment was declined due to the incorrect CVV number (the three-digit 
number on the back of a debit or credit card) being given. 
Those are the only records of any issues that Ive seen. So based on this, and the lack of 
evidence of any wider issues, I think its more likely than not that the issue was related to the 
details input by Miss M, or issues with her device or internet. I can understand that Miss M 
feels this wasnt the issue, as she says she hadnt changed her password. Ive taken on 
board what shes said, but there is simply no evidence of a system wide problem and so its 
difficult for me to fairly say that Bank of Ireland is responsible for the problems she faced 
here.
Bank of Ireland apologised for the time spent on the phone resolving Miss Ms issues, and it 
also offered £20 compensation for the further issues she had in May. Miss M has now 
successfully managed to use the banking app to view her account and has had no further 
issues when logging into her online account.
Miss M feels that she shouldnt have had to waste so much time on the phone and is asking 
for £200 in compensation. I can understand Miss Ms frustration at spending so much time 
on the phone, but Bank of Ireland has explained that as she was locked out, she needed to 
speak with its customer service team to unlock access to her account , so the calls were 
necessary in the circumstances. 
As I havent seen any evidence of errors with Bank of Irelands systems, I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for the problems Miss M had in accessing her account, or the time she spent on 
the phone resolving those problems.
I know Miss M will be disappointed with this, but based on the evidence I have seen, I am 
unable to uphold her complaint, and will not be asking Bank of Ireland to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman