DRN-3090881
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Handelsbanken plc charged turn interest 
inappropriately.
What happened
T entered into a group overdraft facility with Handelsbanken in 2015. Since then, and 
particularly since 2018, the bank has charged T a significant amount of turn interest.
Ts directors told us that whilst they accept the turn interest was properly documented on the 
facility letters, they hadnt realised just how expensive the arrangement was. If they had 
realised the expense, they would have transferred money between Ts various accounts in 
order to avoid the charge. They consider that the bank should have drawn the matter to their 
attention  particularly as they are paying a management fee of £25 per month.
One of our investigators explained why the Financial Ombudsman Service can only look at 
Handelsbankens actions from 1 April 2019 onwards. (Broadly, T is a small business under 
our rules  not a micro-enterprise  and so we only have the power to consider whether 
Handelsbanken treated T fairly from 1 April 2019.)
Our investigator didnt think Handelsbanken had done anything wrong. He said that Ts 
directors had agreed to Handelsbankens fees and charges, and he didnt think 
Handelsbanken had any obligation to advise T about alternative banking options that might 
have been available to them.
Ts directors did not accept our investigators conclusions. Briefly, they said:
They accept that T requested the group overdraft facility, and they understood that 
the groups combined balance had to remain within the facility limit. But T did not 
request the Turn condition  that was something that was proposed by the bank. T 
would not have asked for the product because it was of no benefit to T.
The bank removed the turn rate after T complained. That suggests either that the 
bank felt the rate was inappropriate for a relatively unsophisticated business like T, or 
that the banks staff hadnt realised it was there themselves until T complained.
Their view is that either the bank didnt realise the turn rate was there and (like Ts 
directors) didnt realise the increasing costs, or the bank did realise it was there and 
was happy to keep the impact to itself due to the huge amount of income being 
generated. There was no risk to the bank because overall the account was in credit 
throughout.
Given the huge costs to T  in excess of £27,000 since December 2018  the 
structure cannot be said to be fair. They accept that they as Ts directors are partly at 
fault, given that the turn rate was properly documented within the facility letter that 
they signed, but the bank also signed the facility letter and so the directors consider 
that it must have some responsibility for ensuring that the structure remained 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint T, but having done so there is very little I can add to what our 
investigator has already said.
I cannot make any findings about Handelsbankens actions before 1 April 2019, for the 
reasons our investigator explained. But from 1 April 2019 onwards, I am satisfied that the 
bank was not required to provide T with advice. The facility letter set out the facilities the 
bank was prepared to offer, along with the associated interest and charges. The bank did 
what it said it would do, and applied the interest and charges it said it would apply. 
I acknowledge that other banks may well have offered the facilities T needed at a lower cost 
 and indeed Handelsbanken itself was prepared to reduce its charges after T made a 
complaint. But that doesnt imply that Handelsbanken treated T unfairly. Regardless of Ts 
level of sophistication, its directors accept that the turn rate was properly documented. Ts 
directors may not have noticed the amount of turn interest T was paying, but I cannot say 
that Handelsbanken was in any way secretive about it. Handelsbanken had no obligation to 
ensure that Ts costs were as low as possible.
Overall, I see nothing unfair or unreasonable about Handelsbankens actions. I do not think it 
would be appropriate for me as an ombudsman to interfere with the agreement reached 
between T and the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Handelsbanken plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman