DRN-3356642
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) returned a cheque to him, unpaid, with no 
proper explanation. He would like Lloyds to acknowledge its cheque processing procedure is 
flawed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I have seen the cheque, as the date wasnt written on the date line, this couldnt be 
read by the automated process so  was rejected. I dont think there was a bank error 
 Mr O just didnt complete the cheque correctly.
I appreciate Mr O feels, in the case of a rejected cheque, a manual system should be 
in place. But its not for us to tell businesses how to manage their processes .
Ive seen the letter Lloyds sent advising the cheque hadnt been paid. It said the 
cheque was incomplete and gave a list of key information needed for a cheque to be 
paid. It might have been helpful to state the specific issue with the cheque. But  given 
the many reasons why cheques might be rejected and the frequency this is likely to 
occur, I dont think a standard letter is unreasonable in these circumstances, I dont 
believe its practical to expect businesses to send personal responses to every issue .
I have considered if any compensation is appropriate in this case, but I dont think 
that it is. Although  Mr O had to contact the bank to get an explanation as to why his 
cheque wasnt paid, he told us on his complaint form he had (correctly) guessed the 
reason. He got a letter advising him the cheque hadnt been paid on 16 February 
2021 with a final response letter date 26 February 2021 explaining what the issue 
had been. I cant see he suffered any financial loss in waiting a relatively short period 
of time for an explanation. And whilst he had the inconvenience of contacting the 
bank some degree of inconvenience is to be expected when looking into issues. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman