DRN-2301519
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim she made on a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C holds legal expenses insurance with Aviva. Handling and administration of claims on 
the policy are handled by a representative for Aviva. Where I reference Aviva in this 
decision, it includes this representative who was in contact with Mrs C.
Mrs C complained about the way Aviva had handled a claim she made for assistance in 
making an appeal against a judgment which had been made against her. She felt that delays 
in the way the claim had been handled resulted in her losing the appeal.
When Aviva rejected her complaint, Mrs C referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think Aviva had done anything wrong. She thought that the evidence suggested that it had 
responded to any contact from Mrs C within its service standards and in a reasonable 
timeframe. She also didnt consider that the actions it had taken during this period were 
unreasonable or unnecessary.
Mrs C didnt accept this. Shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Im aware that Mrs C is unhappy with the way that solicitors, appointed by Aviva, as part of 
its assessment of cover for the claim handled this matter. But the jurisdiction of our service is 
limited to the actions of Aviva, as the insurer. So what Im looking at is whether its actions 
were reasonable.
Mrs C originally contacted Aviva in April 2019 in order to make the claim. An email was 
received by Aviva in May 2019 which included copies of the completed claim form. 
Aviva asked Mrs C for clearer copies of the claim form and documents shed sent in. It also 
asked for further information to assist with the assessment of the claim. A clearer copy of the 
claim form was received in June 2019, and clearer copies of the documents were received 
around a week later. The additional information requested by Aviva wasnt received on either 
occasion.
Although the requested further information hadnt been received, Aviva did appoint solicitors 
to assess cover for Mrs Cs claim. The solicitors indicated they couldnt complete an 
assessment without the requested information being provided. As with most legal expenses 
policies, cover is only provided if the claim is likely to be successful, so this needed to be 
assessed before cover could be confirmed.
Mrs C told Aviva she was unhappy with the amount of time, and the level of experience, of 
the solicitors. Aviva said that, in line with the policy terms and conditions, and the stage that 
proceedings were at, Miss C could appoint her preferred solicitors, and Aviva would cover 
the reasonable costs, subject to the solicitors agreeing to Avivas standard terms. Aviva said 
it would allow £1,000 for the initial work of assessing the claim. There was then contact 
between Aviva and Mrs Cs preferred solicitors about costs and agreement of the terms. 
Ive concluded from this that throughout this period, Aviva responded to Mrs C, or took action 
to progress the claim, within five working days of receiving contact from Mrs C. Im satisfied 
that this is a reasonable timeframe to respond, and its also in accordance with Avivas own 
service standards.
While Aviva did ask for information to be resent, Im satisfied that this was necessary 
because the original copies it received were unclear. Aviva also requested further 
information (which wasnt provided) was required in order to assess cover for the claim.
I also think that, even though the requested information hadnt been received, Aviva did act 
to progress the claim when Mrs C indicated her unhappiness with the conduct of the original 
solicitors. It said it would consider appointing Mrs Cs preferred solicitors, and then engaged 
with them to progress the claim. I think it did all it could have done here. And I note that 
Mrs Cs solicitors obtained advice from a barrister, who said her case had little chance of 
success.
So I cant agree that avoidable delays occurred because of the actions of Aviva. I cant say 
that Mrs Cs lack of success in her appeal was because of any action, or inaction, of Aviva.
  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman