DRN-3472650
The complaint and what happened
Mr S complains Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse money he lost as a result of a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr S found an investment opportunity online for gold trading. He decided to invest, 
and between 16 May and 23 May 2020, he invested nearly £2,500.  He made the 
payments to his account with Wise (previously Transferwise) and then onto Best 
Profit Global  who he was trading with  in dollars. 
Mr S lost his funds and when he did some research, he discovered that trading 
should involve a stop loss which his didnt. He said he did further research and 
discovered a missing stop loss is usually a feature of scams. Believing he has been 
scammed he reported the matter to the police in the relevant country.
Starling didnt uphold the complaint as it was satisfied the trader had provided the 
services paid for. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either; she wasnt 
persuaded Mr S had shown hed been scammed rather than lost his money to a 
genuine investment. She also noted that the money went from his Starling account to 
Wise. 
Mr S has asked for a final decision. He doesnt feel Starling did enough to protect him 
and that the investigator being unable to find anything untoward doesnt mean he 
hasnt been scammed. He has also provided a crime reference number and believes 
this matter should be considered under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I broadly 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are tricked into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr S made 
the payments and so they are authorised. 
The first question I need to consider in deciding whether Starling ought to have 
intervened in the payments, is whether Mr S has been scammed rather than losing 
money to a high-risk investment. This is important because a bank doesnt have a 
duty to intervene in payments that are being made to a legitimate investment 
opportunity or to protect customers from losses that flow from those investments. 
They only have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial losses due to 
fraud. 
Mr S reported that Best Profit Global actually carried out trades with his funds. I 
acknowledge that it might not have had a stop loss in place, which might be an 
indicator of fraud. But scam traders dont usually place actual trades with customers 
money; they usually steal it. So Mr Ss own submissions suggest the trader wasnt 
scamming him. I also acknowledge Mr S has reported this to the local police and the 
matter is under investigation. But being under investigation and being found guilty 
arent one and the same. 
But even if Mr S has been scammed, I still dont think Starling ought to have 
intervened. Thats because the payments werent so unusual or uncharacteristic such 
that I think Starlings fraud alert systems ought to have triggered. And in any event, 
Mr S sent the money to his own account held with Wise not to the scammer directly. 
Therefore the transfers from his account with Starling werent the cause of his loss; 
he made further onward transfers from his account with Wise. Whilst those later 
transfers were part of the scam, it was those transfers that were the point of Mr Ss 
loss.  
Mr S has also referred to the CRM. However, the CRM is only applicable to 
payments made to another person. As Mr S was transferring funds into his own 
account with Wise, he wasnt paying another person but himself and so the CRM isnt 
applicable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman