DRN-1611563
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Limited allowed transactions to go ahead on his account card, 
when he didnt authorise the payments, and then his chargeback requests were declined.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr H received notification of two payments from his account which he 
didnt recognise. He froze his account card and contacted Revolut about them. Hed spoken 
to the merchant and the related orders hadnt been made through his account with that 
merchant, but his address and card details had been used. At that stage, Revolut couldnt 
cancel the payments, but said that they would complete or decline within seven days. It said 
that, if the payments did complete, Mr H could place a chargeback request for them. It 
cancelled Mr Hs card and arranged for a new one to be sent to him.
But the two payments did go through and so Mr H completed the chargeback request claims. 
The money was refunded back to him while these were being processed. But, in January 
2020, the money was deducted again because the chargebacks had been defended by the 
merchant, which had provided information about why it believed the transactions had been 
made by Mr H.
 
Mr H complained. He said he didnt understand why the transactions had gone through when 
he didnt authorise them. Mr H believed the transactions were part of a scam and that hed 
been conned. 
Revolut said that, based upon the merchants documentation, it didnt believe that a third 
party had made the transactions. This was because the goods ordered were shipped to 
Mr Hs address. It didnt think his actual address wouldve been used if a third party had 
fraudulently used his card details to purchase the goods. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Mr Hs card details and address had been used to order the goods. Because the 
billing and shipping address were the same, she thought it was difficult to say what a third 
party would gain from sending goods to Mr H. Mr H had described incidents where he 
thought his card details couldve been compromised, but the investigator didnt think these 
were a plausible explanation for how the disputed transactions came to be carried out. 
The investigator considered whether Mr H couldve been a victim of the scam, as hed 
thought. But she didnt think Mr Hs situation was consistent with what would normally 
happen in such a scam. Mr H had said that hed received the goods that were ordered in 
these transactions, but the investigator wasnt clear whether Mr H had approached the 
merchant for a refund. Overall, she didnt think Revolut had acted unfairly in its handling of 
Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. He 
said hed refused to authorise the payments when he received the notifications and had put 
a stop on his card. The details from the merchant showed that two different female names 
had been used when the orders were placed, and the IP address showed the device used 
was in London, when he was working in the North of England. He said the purchases hadnt 
been made using his account with the merchant and disagreed that the provision of a billing 
and shipping address is authorisation. Mr H reiterated the circumstances of the incidents 
where he thought his details couldve been comprised. He said the merchant had referred 
him back to Revolut as there was no record of the purchases on his account with the 
merchant, and he hadnt received any confirmation relating to the items delivered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator in that I 
think Revolut has responded to Mr Hs concerns fairly and appropriately. 
Generally, a bank can hold a customer liable for a disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that they were made or authorised by the customer. 
And a bank isnt able to cancel pending transactions as the payments have been promised 
to the merchant in return for the goods. So, although Mr H froze his card, and a new one 
was ordered for him, these transactions had already been processed by the merchant. 
A bank isnt able to raise a chargeback until the transactions have been claimed and the 
money has left the account. Chargeback isnt a legal right, and there is no guarantee that the 
consumer will be able to get their money back. Banks dont have to raise a chargeback 
claim. But wed expect a bank to make a chargeback request when its reasonable to do so, 
but it would be bound by the rules of the card issuers scheme.
Revolut did look to raise the chargeback claims for these two transactions, and this meant 
that the payments were refunded to his account balance while they were looked into. 
However, the claims were disputed by the merchant and this led to Revolut deducting the 
refunded amounts. 
Ive looked through all the relevant information and I appreciate that these items werent 
ordered directly using Mr Hs account with the merchant. There is also a note of a different 
female name with each order, and it seems that an IP address was used that wasnt where 
Mr H was located at the time the orders were placed.
 
However, Mr Hs full card details were entered to pay for the goods, and the billing and 
shipping addresses used were his home address. This is evidenced as Mr H has confirmed 
that he did receive the goods; but believed them to be free samples.
And I agree that it seems unlikely that a third party would arrange for Mr H to pay for and 
directly receive some goods, when it isnt clear what could be gained by this. I understand 
the point Mr H has made about the scam he feels he might have been a victim of. But the 
particular circumstances here dont seem to follow my understanding of the pattern of that 
scam, as Mr Hs own account card details were manually entered to purchase the items. 
Although it may have been that the delivered packages didnt include invoices or notes, and 
Mr H didnt receive an email confirmation of the orders; they were delivered in the days 
following his original query of the transactions. I think the packaging is likely to have let Mr H 
know which merchant they had come from, and that this was the same merchant of the 
transactions he was questioning. 
 
Although these specific orders didnt show on his account with the merchant, I dont think 
that would necessarily mean that the goods couldnt have been returned in some other way 
through contacting the merchant. Overall, I dont think that Revolut has acted wrongly in the way that it has dealt with Mr Hs 
dispute of these transactions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman