DRN-4415402
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs W took out in 2012 on 
the advice and recommendation of Just Retirement Limited (JRL). The essence of Mrs Ws 
complaint is that she believes the mortgage was mis-sold, because she was in poor health 
and unable to understand what she was committing herself too, and that JRL failed to 
explain that the interest rate of over 7% was fixed for the life of the mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
The mortgage began in 2012, for a sum of just over £90,000; the interest rate was 7.29%, 
fixed for the duration of the mortgage.  In 2021, Mrs W contacted us with details of a 
complaint she wanted to make against the lender, a business Ill refer to as M. However, 
some aspects of her complaint (those Ive summarised above) related to the sale of the 
mortgage by JRL, rather than its operation by M. 
JRL looked into those aspects of the complaint for which it was responsible, but didnt 
uphold them. Our investigator wasnt persuaded JRL had done anything wrong. Mrs W 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Sadly, her letters requesting this 
went unactioned for about two years and the case was only reactivated recently.
One of our managers has apologised to Mrs W for the failure of service on our part, and I 
add my own apology to that already conveyed. My role, however, is to review and determine 
the underlying complaint against JRL.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
In this decision I have looked at the advice to take out the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered whether JRL did anything wrong when recommending Mrs W take the mortgage 
out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards as they are today, or to 
any hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all of this, including Mrs Ws most recent letter, very carefully; its for us to 
assess the reliability of evidence and decide how much weight should be attached to it. 
When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We consider 
everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture.
The starting point here is the point of sale documentation from 2012. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; theres always the possibility of 
information being recorded incorrectly. But theyre typically more reliable than peoples 
individual recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be degraded by the passage of time or more generally influenced by hindsight.
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, or incapable 
of being relied on for some other reason, well generally attach some weight to it. Im 
satisfied I can do that here. 
The advice to take out the mortgage, and the advisors reasons for his recommendations 
were set out in a letter dated 23 April 2012, following two separate meetings with Mrs W, one 
of which was also attended by Mrs Ws daughter. As a result of information captured during 
those meetings, and recorded in a separate document called a fact-find (which Ive also 
seen) the letter recorded that Mrs W had a defined need for funds for a divorce settlement 
and to repay a family loan. 
Mrs W is recorded as having no savings at that time, and no other obvious source of funds 
to meet her financial needs and objectives. Mrs W was recently retired due to ill-health and 
reliant on a pension income, which realistically ruled out the possibility of her being granted a 
traditional mortgage that required monthly payments. The letter also records that Mrs Ws 
health conditions were recorded and taken into account. 
The 23 April 2012 letter sets out that interest will be charged on the mortgage annually at a 
fixed rate of 7.29%. More detailed information about the interest rate, and how the 
compounding effect would impact on the loan balance over time was set out in a Key Facts 
Illustration (KFI) issued by JRL on 13 April 2012 and again in the mortgage offer that M 
issued on 17 May 2012. 
I cant be sure how much of the information Mrs W assimilated at the time. But Ive kept in 
mind that it was standard practice that, in addition to the financial advice from intermediaries 
such as JRL, applicants for lifetime mortgage should receive independent legal advice from 
a solicitor to ensure they understood the nature of the commitment they were entering into 
by taking on the mortgage. JRLs records indicate that happened in Mrs Ws case. 
It was standard practice for the solicitor giving the advice to issue a certificate to confirm they 
were satisfied that the applicant understood the terms of the mortgage and were happy to 
proceed. Ive not been provided with a copy of that certificate in Mrs Ws case, but JRL has 
named the solicitor and legal practice its records show as having given Mrs W the relevant 
legal advice. My own research indicates that the solicitor named was a director of the legal 
practice at the time Mrs W took the mortgage out. On the balance of probabilities, I find it 
more likely than not that Mrs W did receive independent legal advice from a solicitor (who 
certified Mrs Ws understanding of it) before she took out the mortgage recommended by 
JRL. Whether the rate itself was or is excessively high is ultimately a matter for the lender M to 
address. As to JRLs recommendation that Mrs W take out a mortgage that attracted interest 
at that rate, its important to keep in mind that lifetime mortgages represent a different type of 
lending risk from traditional mortgages for the businesses that provide them. At the time the 
mortgage is granted, the lender has a good expectation that the money will be repaid, but 
almost no expectation at all about when that will happen. The rate being offered by M, which 
JRL recommended to Mrs W, was generally competitive for this type of mortgage at the time 
it started, and was reflective of that differing risk profile I have described above.
To summarise, Mrs W clearly needed the money, and an equity release mortgage was in all 
probability the only means of obtaining it that was open to her. In all the circumstances, 
based on the available evidence and without the aid of hindsight, I find that JRL acted 
reasonably and fairly when recommending this mortgage to Mrs W. Im also satisfied it met 
her information needs regarding the interest rate that M would apply to the mortgage. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman