DRN-3134439
The complaint
Mrs B complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) agreed to her loan top up 
request but then cancelled it.
What happened
Mrs B has an existing loan with Tesco. In March 2020, Mrs B contacted Tesco to request a 
payment break. Tesco agreed to her request and deferred her loan repayments due in April, 
May and June 2020 with repayments to restart in July 2020.
In August 2020, Mrs B contacted Tesco again. She wanted to apply for a loan top up of 
£1,000 to enable her to purchase a new domestic appliance. Mrs B says that Tesco told her 
that her application for a top up was agreed. She says she was told that funds would be 
released to her once she returned the agreement paperwork to Tesco.
Mrs B called Tesco the following day. She wanted to ensure that her existing loan had been 
included within the new amount requested. Tesco checked their records and noticed Mrs B 
had previously been given a COVID payment deferral of three months. They told Mrs B that 
because of this, her new application would be cancelled.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Tescos decision as shed already ordered the new domestic 
appliance on the strength of the agreement given the previous day. So, she complained to 
Tesco.
Tesco apologised to Mrs B. They agreed that shed been misinformed. They explained that 
their pre lending checks should have included confirmation that Mrs B hadnt missed any of 
the preceding eight repayments to her existing loan. Due to the earlier payment deferral 
agreed, this meant this requirement couldnt be met. They apologised for their mistake and 
offered compensation of £50.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Tescos response to her complaint. She thought Tesco should 
stand by the agreement theyd given her. She had now committed to purchasing the item 
ordered with no means to fund it. She wanted Tesco to agree to provide her with the loan top 
up. Tesco werent prepared to do that.
So, Mrs B decided to refer her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint. She agreed that Tesco had made a mistake. But 
she said that this service wouldnt be able to instruct Tesco to lend her the money. She also 
thought the compensation offered by Tesco wasnt enough to reflect the impact their mistake 
had on Mrs B. She thought Tesco should increase their compensation offer to £100.
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators suggestion. So, they asked for Mrs Bs complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman so that a final decision could be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties involved. And Tesco 
agree they made a mistake. So, I dont propose to cover this aspect in great detail.
Mrs B wants Tesco to honour their original verbal agreement to provide her loan top up. As 
far as Im aware, no formal written offer to lend was issued by Tesco. From the information 
Ive seen, Tesco verbally provided an agreement in principle to Mrs Bs top up loan 
application. 
I also understand that before any loan agreement documentation is issued, Tesco undertake 
further checks to ensure their processes have been followed correctly and there is no other 
reason for them not to approve Mrs Bs application. It appears that Tesco didnt tell Mrs B 
this. So, I can completely understand why Mrs B is frustrated and annoyed by Tescos 
mistake here. 
Its important to clarify the role of this service when considering Mrs Bs complaint. Its not 
our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements on 
the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the 
regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But it is our role to examine 
and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the manner in which those 
policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of Mrs Bs experience 
with them. 
I also think its important to stress that this service isnt able to instruct Tesco to provide the 
loan top up to Mrs B. Tescos policy is that a loan top up wouldnt be available if Mrs Bs last 
eight loan payments hadnt all been met, on time. And because of the three-month payment 
deferral previously agreed, this requirement couldnt be met. This a business decision for 
Tesco and not one that this service would look to challenge. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral. From what Ive seen, Tesco 
complied with these guidelines. 
Tesco say that when the original agreement in principle was given, Mrs B had been told that 
funds wouldnt be available for 10-12 days. They were aware the purchase Mrs B wanted to 
make was to replace a faulty domestic appliance. So, they believe that any financial impact 
on Mrs B was caused by the appliance failure and not their mistake. They also stress that 
their mistake was identified within 24 hours of the original verbal agreement which they 
believe gave time for Mrs B to cancel her order. 
Tesco did make it clear to Mrs B that she wouldnt receive funds for 10-12 days. However, 
her need was immediate, and Tesco had confirmed they would support her. How she then 
funded the purchase, in the interim period, is Mrs Bs decision. But ultimately, she believed 
that the Tesco loan would fund this. So, I dont think her decision to commit to the purchase 
was unreasonable here. While I accept that the financial impact of Mrs Bs broken domestic 
appliance wasnt a result of anything Tesco did, I am persuaded that their mistake caused 
Mrs B both distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought that compensation of £100 (in total) was more reflective of the 
impact Tescos mistake had on Mrs B. I think that Tescos mistake caused Mrs B some 
stress requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. Having committed to her purchase she now 
needed to find an alternative way to fund this. While I appreciate Tesco will be disappointed, 
I agree with our investigator here. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay compensation 
of £100 to Mrs B (to include the £50 already offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman