DRN-3304113
The complaint
Mr G says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) shouldnt have allowed increases to his 
overdraft limit as it was unaffordable and that he has been living in overdraft for years.
What happened
Mr G complained to Barclays. Barclays said all lending applications go through strict lending 
criteria and based on the income received into Mr Gs account it believes his overdraft was 
affordable. 
Following Mr G bringing his complaint to this service Barclays as a gesture of goodwill made 
the following offer:
A refund of charges amounting to £2,404 for the period 11 September 2015 to 
November 2018 on the condition that the overdraft would be removed.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Gs concerns and reached the conclusion that Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly but thought the offer from Barclays was 
a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr G declined Barclayss offer  he would like a refund of all charges up to the present date. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Why I cant look back before September 2015
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr G raised his complaint in 2021. Six years before he raised his complaint is 2015. And as 
Mr G had an overdraft facility and the charges applied to this wouldve been notified to him at 
the time they were being applied, I think he ought to have known enough to decide whether 
they were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Mr 
G ought to be reasonably aware he had reason to complaint provides him with a longer 
period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at the affordability of his overdraft from 
September 2015.
I can still look into Mr Gs complaint outside this time if Im satisfied the failure to complain 
earlier was due to exceptional circumstances, but as Mr G hasnt made me aware of any 
exceptional circumstances so I will only be looking at his account activity from September 
2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr G has referred the unaffordability of his overdraft and that he has been living in his 
overdraft for years. Barclays has told us that the last overdraft limit increase Mr G had was in 
2013. As this happened before September 2015, I am unable to look at whether this 
application was affordable as it is out of jurisdiction. But that being said while Im not looking 
at the affordability of the overdraft increases, Barclays wont have acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr G if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Gs overdraft in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr 
G was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr G fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr G unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Gs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Barclays ought to have realised Mr G might have been experiencing financial difficulties prior 
to it being notified of this. 
Mr G may argue that his regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. I can see that although Mr G was using his overdraft regularly a healthy salary 
was being paid in which brought his overdraft down. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over his expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-contractual and discretionary transactions as well as regular transfers to a 
savings account which at points in time held enough to pay off, or significantly reduce Mr Gs 
overdraft. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr G didnt experience financial difficulties. But 
there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted Barclays 
to any potential financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to the account each month 
didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any 
stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of the information it had on Mr 
Gs bank accounts and how Mr G was managing them. And I dont think Barclays has 
treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably.
But as Barclays has offered to settle Mr Gs complaint its up to him to decide whether he 
now wishes to accept this offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and Im not asking 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Caroline DaviesOmbudsman