DRN-3450187
The complaint
F isnt happy with the service it received from Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard in 
regard to a number of issues.
What happened
F has a credit account with Barclays. In December 2020, F received notice from Barclays 
that the credit limit on its account had been reduced from £2,500 to £2,200. F challenged 
Barclays about this but felt that Barclays were threatening in response. F werent happy 
about this, and felt that Barclays were being deliberatively obstructive, including fabricating 
returned mail to put a block on Fs account and also later putting a second block on Fs 
account without reason. So, it raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Fs complaint. It confirmed to F that a commercial decision had been 
made to reduce the amount of credit available to F, and it explained that Fs account had 
been blocked because of returned mail in the first instance and because of potential fraud 
concerns in the second instance. However, Barclays did acknowledge that F had had to 
spend longer trying to resolve the second account block than ought reasonably to have been 
the case, and it apologised to F because of this.
F wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. This resulted in Barclays confirming that it felt that 
the complaint response it had issued previously to F had been fair and reasonable, but that 
on appraisal Barclays were willing to offer £50 to F as compensation for the additional time F 
had to spend trying to remove the second block on the account.
Our investigator, after reviewing the circumstances of this complaint, felt that Barclays 
response to Fs complaint, including the amended offer of £50 compensation, did represent 
a fair and reasonable resolution to what had occurred. However, F remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays wrote to F in November 2020 advising that it had placed a block on Fs account 
because it was concerned that Fs credit card details might have been compromised. 
However, this letter, and a later letter sent to the same address, were returned to Barclays 
as undeliverable items.
It's unclear why these items of mail were returned, as it appears that they were addressed 
correctly. However, having received these items as returned mail, Barclays emailed F and 
asked it to confirm or update its address and contact details. 
The email that Barclays sent to F in this regard clearly stated that F shouldnt reply directly to 
the email (which wouldnt be monitored) and provided F with the appropriate means of 
confirming its contact details with Barclays. However, F did reply directly to the email and 
didnt respond via the correct channel as informed by Barclays in the email, and because of 
this Barclays didnt receive the address confirmation from F via a channel that elicited the 
confirmation of Fs address and so the block on Fs account wasnt removed.
This meant that when a payment became due on the account at the end of that month, it 
couldnt be taken, and Im aware that F feel that Barclays should be held responsible for this, 
given that it had provided a confirmation of its address when responding directly to the email 
that it had received. 
But F didnt provide the address confirmation via the required channel, and even when 
informed by Barclays that its direct response to the email wouldnt result in Fs address being 
confirmed, and therefore wouldnt result in the block on the account being removed, F 
declined to update its address via an appropriate channel and stated that it wouldnt respond 
to any further contact from Barclays in regard to this point.
In consideration of these points I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards F here, and it seems apparent to me that if F had updated its address 
via the channel as instructed in the initial email it received that the block would have been 
removed from its account in time to allow the scheduled payment due at the end of that 
month to be paid. As such, I dont feel that Barclays should be held accountable for that 
payment not being paid, and I wont be upholding this aspect of Fs complaint.
At a similar time, Barclays separately made the commercial decision to reduce the credit 
limit on Fs credit account from £2,500 to £2,200. Im aware that F wasnt happy about the 
reduction in the credit limit, but Im satisfied that this was a decision that Barclays were 
entitled to make, and I note that the terms of the credit account include the following:
Well tell you what your business credit limit is when we first open your account. 
Well then review it from time to time. If we change your business credit limit, well 
write to let you know. 
If we reduce your business credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability 
to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this 
would be inappropriate. We wont reduce your business credit limit to be less than 
your total outstanding balance, plus any transactions authorised but not yet charged 
to your account.
Additionally, Barclays have confirmed that their decision to reduce the credit limit on the 
account was undertaken in response to an assessment of risk it undertook on F. Barclays 
have provided details of this risk assessment to this service which Im not at liberty to share 
publicly. But in consideration of this information, Barclays position here seems reasonable to 
me, and I dont feel that it acted unfairly towards F by reducing the amount of credit available 
to F in the manner that it did.
Im aware that F feels that when it challenged Barclays about this decision that Barclays 
were threatening in its replies, including that Barclays intimated that F may have trouble 
logging into its online account if it continued to disagree with the credit limit reduction. 
However, it seems likely to me that theres been some confusion on Fs part here. I say this 
because I note that Barclays did inform F at that time that it may have trouble logging into its 
online account, but it seems clear that this was in response to the point referenced earlier in 
this letter (and which, as explained, was taking place at the same time), specifically that F 
was attempting to provide its address confirmation via an unsuitable channel, to which 
Barclays attempted to convey to F that if it continued to not update its address as requested in the letter that the block wouldnt be removed from its account and that it may have trouble 
logging into its account. 
Indeed, I havent seen anything in any of the information presented to me by either F or 
Barclays that I feel constitutes or intimates any form of threatening or intimidatory behaviour 
towards F by Barclays.
Shortly after these events, F found that it couldnt log into its online account once again. 
Barclays have confirmed that this was because of a series of failed identification attempts via 
its Interactive Voice Response System. 
It doesnt seem unreasonable to me  that Barclays would place a precautionary block on Fs 
account in such circumstances, and its notable that Barclays tried to contact F about the 
block that had been placed on its account because of these failed attempts that same day.
F didnt become aware of the block on the account until a few weeks later, and when it 
initially contacted Barclays about this, the reason for the block wasnt identified. This meant 
that this second block wasnt removed from Fs account until four days later. Barclays have 
apologised to F because of this, and after liaising with this service have offered £50 to F as 
compensation for any inconvenience incurred by F because of that four-day delay. This feels 
fair to me, and I wont be instructing Barclays to take any further action in this regard.
All of which means that Im not convinced by the version of events put forwards by F in 
regard to this complaint. Specifically, I havent seen anything to corroborate Fs assertions 
that Barclays acted maliciously towards F in response to Fs challenging the reduction in its 
credit limit. 
Additionally, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to reduce Fs credit limit, and 
that the troubles that F had in regard to the blocks on its account were as a result of F not 
correctly updating its address in the first instance and because of legitimate fraud concerns 
in the second instance. 
I realise that this might not be the outcome F was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding these aspects of Fs complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further actions in 
these regards. However, in order to formalise the offer of £50 compensation to F made by 
Barclays for the delay in unblocking its account in the second instance, Im obliged to uphold 
this complaint against Barclays on that limited basis only and to instruct Barclays to make 
the agreed compensation payment to F.
 
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £50 to F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard on the limited basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman