DRN-3535929
The complaint
Mr K, on behalf of K, a limited company, complains that Accelerant Insurance Limited 
unfairly cancelled a policy after K made a claim on a business protection insurance policy. 
He wants the claim to be paid.
Mr K brings the complaint as a director of K, and has been represented in some dealings 
with our service. Where I refer to Mr K within this decision, this includes these 
representatives.
Similarly, where I refer to Accelerant within this decision, this includes agents and 
representatives who have acted on its behalf during the claim and complaint.
What happened
K held insurance provided by Accelerant which covered goods it held in storage. A theft 
occurred and K made a claim on its policy.
After carrying out enquiries, Accelerant declined cover for the claim and cancelled the policy. 
It said that the value of the goods held in storage at the time of the theft (and which was 
being claimed) was more than the amount which had been insured. It also said that if the 
actual value had been notified, it wouldnt have provided the policy to K. It refunded part of 
the premium to K.
Mr K complained to Accelerant. He referred his complaint to our service after Accelerant 
rejected it. Our investigator didnt think Accelerant had done anything wrong. Mr K didnt 
agree and requested an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision and further correspondence with the parties
On receipt of this complaint, our investigator didnt believe the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that under the provisions of the Insurance Act 2015, K had a duty to give a fair 
presentation of the risk to Accelerant and didnt consider it had done so.
When K disagreed with this assessment, the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision. On review of the information available, I considered that the provisions of the 
Insurance Act 2015 didnt apply here as the requirement to make a fair presentation of the 
risk applied at policy inception or renewal, but Accelerants argument was that the value of 
the goods held in storage exceeded the sum insured during the period of cover, and this 
should have been disclosed.
I issued a provisional decision which said that K should have disclosed the value of the 
goods being held in storage having exceeded the sum insured within 14 days of the value 
exceeding the limit. While I didnt have evidence of when that occurred, I thought it was 
reasonable for K to have inferred from information provided by K that this had happened 
several months before the theft. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr K sent evidence of having received a large 
amount of stock less than a week before the theft, and that this was the first occasion on 
which the value of goods held in storage exceeded the sum insured. 
After reviewing the information, I was minded to agree with Mr K. The evidence now 
available to me (which hasnt previously been provided to our service or Accelerant) was that 
the value of the goods held in storage only exceeded the sum insured a matter of days 
before the theft. The policy condition was that such a change needed to be informed within 
14 days  which hadnt yet elapsed. I was minded to uphold the complaint and require 
Accelerant to reconsider the claim.
I wrote to Accelerant to explain this. It agreed with my conclusions and said it would be 
prepared to reconsider the claim and carry out further enquiries to establish whether the 
claim was covered.
On receipt of this, I wrote to Mr K. I explained that I was now of the opinion that the claim 
should be reconsidered and the complaint upheld. Mr K disagreed. He wants me to require 
Accelerant to pay the claim now. 
In order to resolve this matter, Im issuing this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive outlined above, I think the complaint as presented to us should be upheld. Im no 
longer of the opinion that Accelerant can reasonably say that K was obliged to disclose the 
increase in the value of the goods held in storage prior to the theft. 
In my provisional decision, I outlined a number of points which were undisputed at the time, 
and it would seem remain undisputed now:
The period of cover of Ks policy was from November 2020 to May 2021.
The sum insured on the policy for storage of goods was £99,999.
After taking out the policy, K didnt contact Assurant to make any changes to the 
policy or notify it of any changes to the value of the goods held in storage.
The theft occurred in April 2021.
The value of the stolen items was around £106,000.
What was in dispute was when the value of the goods held in storage exceeded the sum 
insured. My original findings, based on Mr Ks statement that due to lockdown in Christmas 
and New Year we could not have a decent sale. This was the sole reason our stock piled up 
was that the value had exceeded the sum insured several months before the theft.  
The schedule of insurance of Ks policy says You must tell us within 14 days of you 
becoming aware if any of the information provided by you changes after you purchase your 
policy and during the period of your policy. The terms and conditions of the policy also say 
you must tell us as soon as possible if there are any changes that may affect your insurance 
such as... if the value of items increases beyond the sums insured covered under this 
policy.
In light of these conditions, and Mr Ks previous statements, I was of the opinion that K 
hadnt disclosed to Accelerant as it should have when the value of the goods held in storage exceeded £99,999. Accelerant had demonstrated that it wouldnt have offered cover on this 
policy if the value of goods held in storage exceeded £99,999.
What has changed here is that Mr K has now provided documents showing that on 31 March 
2021, 4 days before the theft, K received a large amount of goods which were placed into 
storage. This was when the value of the goods in storage exceeded £99,999. Accelerant 
hasnt provided any evidence to show that the value of the goods held in storage exceeded 
the sum insured before that date. 
I think its fair to say that K hadnt breached the duty of disclosure as set out in the policy 
documents  it had 14 days in which to do so and this hadnt yet passed. Ive no reason to 
believe that K didnt intend to do so. Mr K said they wanted to do so but due to the Easter 
holidays were unable to contact Accelerant before the theft.
For these reasons, Im no longer satisfied that Accelerant can fairly say that K breached its 
duty to disclose the increased value. Therefore, I dont believe it can maintain its position 
that the claim should be declined on these grounds. Accelerant has agreed with this, and 
said it will make further enquiries in order to establish whether the policy provides cover for 
Ks claim.
Mr K doesnt agree with this. He believes that I should require Accelerant to pay the claim 
now, as its reason for declining the claim is no longer supported. I cant agree with Mr K 
here. The complaint submitted, and my decision, is about Accelerants decision to decline 
cover because the value wasnt disclosed. 
Im not a claims handler or an insurer. I cant say, and dont have the power to determine, 
whether the remaining terms and conditions of the policy have been satisfied and so I wont 
be requiring Accelerant to pay the claim at this point. 
My decision to uphold the complaint does not mean that Accelerant are obliged to settle the 
claim. Nothing Ive said prevents Accelerant from carrying out reasonable enquiries and 
investigations into the claim to establish what settlement, if any, should be made for the 
claim.
Ive also considered whether I should award compensation to K for the inconvenience 
caused by Accelerant declining the claim. Im not minded to do so. This is because its only 
become apparent as part of our investigation into the complaint when the value of the goods 
exceeded the sum insured.
As Ive outlined above, I was previously of the view that Accelerant had acted fairly. On 
receipt of the information from our service, Accelerant has agreed to reconsider the claim. It 
seems to me that this is what it would have done if Mr K had provided that same evidence to 
them during the claim process or initial complaint before it was referred to our service.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Accelerant 
Insurance Limited must reconsider Ks claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. In the event that a settlement is to be made, the policy will need to be 
reinstated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 Ben Williams
Ombudsman