DRN-3313362
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the broker One Call Insurance Services Limited (OCISL) when 
he changed his car and the way it handled the cancellation of his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H bought a car insurance policy through a broker OCISL in October 2020. In April 2021
he contacted it through its webchat service to tell it he was changing his car on 1 May 2021.
OCISL told Mr H that his current insurer wouldnt offer cover for his new car. So it provided a
premium to cancel and replace his existing policy with a new one for a further year.
Mr H said the premium OCISL quoted wasnt competitive with other quotes hed obtained
online with other insurers  and including OCISL. So he instructed OCISL to cancel his
policy from 1 May 2021 and said he would go elsewhere.
OCISL said on cancellation Mr H would owe a balance of £134.03 assuming his policy
cancelled on 1 May 2021. Mr H was very unhappy with the charges on cancellation and the
premium OCISL offered for a new policy. Mr H said he would cancel his Direct Debit
Instruction (DDI). OCISL said it would send Mr H a seven day cancellation notice if this
happened.
Mr H ended the chat. He cancelled his DDI. OCISL sent him a seven day cancellation notice
confirming it would cancel his policy on 6 May 2021. It cancelled his policy on 7 May 2021.
On 13 May 2021 Mr H wrote to OCISL to reiterate his complaint about the charges OCISL
applied on cancellation. He said he instructed OCISL to cancel his policy from 1 May 2021.
The figures it quoted on cancellation were different to the sums quoted in the webchat in
April 2021. In addition he said he was able to see quotes for a new policy via OCISL online
for significantly less than the agent offered him in the webchat and wanted OCISL to explain
why that was.
OCISL didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it had no control over the insurers decision to
offer cover or the prices they set under the panel of insurers they work with. As a goodwill
gesture it said it would waive its cancellation fee of £55.99 from the balance it said he owed
of £140.30 (based on a cancellation date of 7 May 2021).
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said the way OCISL had
handled matters had caused him distress. He no longer thought it fair that he should pay
OCISL anything.
Our investigator thought OCISL could have better explained the premium breakdown and
the charges it applied on cancellation  and he found some discrepancies in the amounts
quoted. He thought it was very clear that Mr H wanted his policy to cancel from 1 May 2021
and so he didnt think it fair that OCISL didnt do this until 7 May 2021.
Based on his breakdown of the charges which he could evidence as fair, the investigator
thought Mr H owed OCISL a balance of £83.16 - after deducting the £55.99 cancellation fee
OCISL had offered as a goodwill gesture.
However, the investigator thought OCISL had made errors and caused confusion in the way
it communicated the premium breakdown to Mr H. For this, he thought OCISL should pay Mr
H £50 compensation. So based on his recommendations, Mr H would owe OCISL a reduced
balance of £33.16.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings. But he reiterated that when he searched online for
policies at the same time as he was in communication with OCISL, It was offering him a
policy for his new car for a much lower price.
OCISL didnt agree. It said as OCISL didnt confirm it would cancel Mr Hs policy on 1 May
2021 in the webchat and it ended, it had correctly cancelled the policy in line with the 
process following the cancellation of the DDI.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2022. I agreed with most of the Investigators 
recommendations  but I thought a £30 fee had been added twice  so I found the final 
amount Mr H owed was £30 less than the Investigator. And as this left a balance of £3.16 
rather than £33.16, I provisionally decided that OCISL should write off the amount it said Mr 
H owed.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. Hes provided us with a copy of letters from OCISLs 
debt recovery agent requesting an outstanding sum from him of £84.31 with additional fees.
OCISL didnt agree. It says it correctly cancelled the policy from 7 May 2021. It provided a 
further breakdown of its charges which I asked for clarification on. OCISL has replied. Ive 
set out the additional information in my findings as the case has been passed back to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Mr H paid an annual premium of £343.87. However, the amount quoted on Mr Hs Statement
of Fact says the annual premium is £373.87. OCISL says this sum includes a £30 discount.
So when Mr H cancelled his policy, OCISL applied the discount to the amount Mr H owed.
In fact it said Mr H had received a £70 discount and provided a screenshot confirming this.
But there isnt any evidence to show that this was explained or set out under OCISLs terms.
So I dont think its reasonable for OCISL to apply this as a fee Mr H owes on cancellation.
Mr H paid a deposit and set up a credit agreement with a finance company to repay the
balance of the annual premium. This means that the finance company paid OCISL the
balance up front  and Mr H repaid the balance with interest in instalments to the finance
company.
Mr H had paid a deposit of £45.58 and instalments (with interest) totalling £211.54. So in
total Mr H had paid £257.12.
The premium OCISL quoted that Mr H had paid didnt include interest  so it said Mr H had
paid a total of £227.35. I think OCISL should have explained this to Mr H when providing abreakdown of the amounts it charged on cancellation.
In addition to the annual premium of £343.87, Mr H paid for additional products at £59 and
£28.95 totalling £87.95. Mr H believes he should have received a pro rata refund for these
products when he cancelled his policy. We consider that a pro rata refund may be
reasonable where its likely that the costs of the product is unfairly balanced against the use
a customer may have had from it  and the administration charges involved in providing a
pro rata refund. However in this case, as Mr H had the benefit of the additional products for
over half the term of the contract  and in line with their terms, OCISL explained that the
products are non-refundable. So I dont think Mr H is entitled to a pro rata refund for the
additional products he bought.
When calculating the days on cover, OCISL applied a cancellation date of 7 May 2021 and
quoted a premium of £223.71 as being due. I dont agree that this is fair. In the webchat Mr
H told OCISL on multiple occasions that he wanted his policy to be cancelled from 1 May
2021 at midday  as this was the date he intended to trade in his existing car and collect his
new one from the dealership. The fact that the webchat ended doesnt make a difference as
I think Mr Hs instructions were clear. And even though Mr H did go on to cancel his DDI, I
think OCISL should have cancelled his policy from 1 May 2021 based on his clear
instructions.
So  taking everything into account, our investigator set out what he found to be fair,
assuming the policy had cancelled on 1 May 2021 as follows:
Annual Premium £373.87 or £1.024 per day
188 days on cover £192.56
Add Discount £ 30.00
Value Added Products £ 87.95
Add cancellation costs £ 55.99
TOTAL COST £366.50
Less amount paid £227.35
Amount due £139.15
However, I think the discount of £30 is included in the £373.87 figure. So I think the amount
due here should be £30 less as it has been added twice. This means I think the amount Mr
H owes OCISL on cancellation from 1 May 2021 is £109.15.
OCISL agreed to waive its cancellation fee of £55.99 as a goodwill gesture. I think this is fair
 but I dont think it goes far enough to resolve Mr Hs complaint. I think OCISL caused
unnecessary confusion, applied the wrong cancellation date, and could have more clearly
explained the breakdown of what Mr H owed on cancellation.
For the distress and inconvenience caused our investigator recommended OCISL pay Mr H
£50 compensation which I think is within the range of reasonable. However, as I think the
amount Mr H owes OCISL on cancellation is £30 less than the investigator, this leaves Mr H
owing a balance of £3.16 rather than £33.16.
I therefore think the fairest outcome is for OCISL to write off this balance. I dont think Mr H
should be required to pay it.
Mr H has provided screenshots from a comparison website which he says shows that OCISL
quoted a policy for him for considerably less than the amount offered via the webchat.
In response OCISL says that the price available via webchat may differ to one offered onlinedue to new business and online discounts. And it says its unable to tell from the screenshot
if the price quoted online was on the same day as Mr Hs webchat. The level of cover Mr H
requested and the day of the quote are factors that can also impact the price offered.
I dont have enough evidence to be able to say that OCISL acted unreasonably in offering
the price for a replacement policy to Mr H via webchat when he changed his car. As a broker
it provides a premium offered by a panel of insurers  the insurers decide what premium to
offer depending on the platform used, the level of cover and the date. All of these factors
play a part in the price offered by an insurer.
In response to my provisional findings, OCISL said that the charge for time on cover 
included an insurers minimum charge of £25. It said the balance of £84.31 was correct. 
I asked OCIL to clarify what the annual premium was: its final response letter says the 
insurers cost at the outset was £391.82. I couldnt reconcile the £25 insurer charge with the 
difference between the amounts quoted of £391.82 or £373.87. I asked for evidence Mr H 
had applied the additional £40 discount when he bought the policy as this was something he 
asked about when he complained to OCISL. And I asked why OCISL listed the discounts as 
a minus amount from its cancellation charges when it told us the discounts arent applied on 
cancellation. 
OCISL provided a further screenshot. It said the correct annual premium was £373.87 with a 
£30 and £40 discount applied by OCISL. It said it included the discount as part of the 
cancellation breakdown as OCISL breakdown the costs occurred within the file to the 
consumer. It said the breakdown gives the consumer an insight to what has been charged 
within the term, what has been paid, any discounts that have applied, the total cost of 
cancellation and any balance due to be refunded or outstanding.
Having reviewed the further responses from OCISL, Ive found that the sums involved on 
cancellation were not clear to Mr H. And so I maintain my view that a fair outcome to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint is for OCISL to write off any balance it says Mr H owes on cancellation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in line with my provisional decision. I require 
One Call Insurance Services Limited (OCISL) to apply a compensation amount of £53.16 to 
the balance Mr H correctly owes on cancellation of his policy for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. This therefore means Mr H owes nothing further to OCISL.
OCISL should provide Mr H with a letter confirming there is no record of cancellation by an
insurer in relation to this policy  or that such cancellation has been recorded in error  as Mr
H requested the cancellation of his policy.
OCISL should stop any further contact from the debt recovery agent to Mr H and ensure no 
adverse credit marker is set against him in respect of an outstanding balance under this 
policy 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman