DRN-1610546
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has declined his claim under his Term 
Assurance policy. 
What happened
On 1 February 2008 Mr Fs Term Assurance policy commenced. 
In October 2012 Mr F started an industrial role. Sadly, in January 2013, he had an accident 
at work. In July 2014 he made a claim to Aviva under the critical illness section of his policy. 
He said he had been left permanently disfigured and disabled following the accident. He also 
said he couldnt perform his normal role because he couldnt enter the building where the 
accident happened. 
Aviva reviewed the claim but decided to reject it on 30 September 2014. It said Mr F hadnt 
met the policy definition of Total and Permanent Disability. It added that it considers an 
occupation to be a trade, profession or type of work not a specific job with a particular 
employer. 
In December 2018 Mr F made another claim to Aviva. Aviva reviewed the claim but decided 
not to uphold it on 25 February 2019. It said Mr F was not totally or permanently prevented 
from performing the generic duties associated with his normal occupation. 
Mr F was unhappy with this decision so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. She said she didnt 
think Mr F was totally unable to follow his normal occupation based upon the medical 
information that had been supplied to Aviva. 
Mr F remained unhappy. He said he didnt think his mental health had been considered and 
the fact he has to take medication just to get to work every day. He added that his job isnt 
the same and he can no longer work in that industry. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
I accept Mr F has been struggling to deal with the circumstances of his accident and the 
affect this is having on him and his family. I would like to assure Mr F that his mental health 
has been considered when making my decision. But in order for me to ask Aviva to accept this claim, I need to be satisfied he meets the definition of Total and Permanent Disability 
within his terms and conditions. The policy says the following; 
The life insured is totally unable to follow their Normal Occupation as a result of sickness or 
accident and will in the reasonable opinion of our medical adviser, permanently continue to 
be totally unable to follow their Normal Occupation, taking into account current medical 
knowledge and technology. Normal Occupation means the occupation of the life insured 
immediately before the sickness or accident that resulted in a claim.
Ive reviewed the report completed by a Psychologist in November 2014. The Psychologist 
said he hoped Mr F would fully recover from his condition by the end of 2015.  And I havent 
seen any medical information or later psychological reports which show he is now totally or 
permanently unable to return to his normal occupation (before the accident). 
Ive also considered what the policy means by Mr Fs Normal Occupation. Im satisfied this 
means the duties associated with the occupation Mr F was fulfilling before he had his 
accident. In other words the tasks which Mr F undertook at the time and which would be 
expected of him if he moved to another employer or place of work in a similar occupation. I 
dont think this can reasonably be restricted to the employer (or even building) Mr F was 
working in when he had the accident. 
So based upon the evidence Ive seen and which Aviva considered, I cant reasonably ask 
Aviva to accept this claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman