DRN-3236489
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly restricted access to his account while he was 
overseas and could not visit his local branch. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Findings
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it for the following reasons:
Lloyds responded to a potential fraud alert on Mr Ts account by blocking his access 
to internet banking and restricting his ability to make payments. They said the only 
way for him to unblock his account was to attend a UK branch, which he was not 
able to do as he was overseas and was unable to travel at the time due to the 
pandemic. I understand the action Lloyds took was aimed at protecting Mr Ts 
account, and I dont think theyve done anything wrong by taking this action. But I do 
not think they have acted fairly and reasonably by insisting he come back to the UK 
in order to unblock it, as there were other options they could have reasonably 
pursued in order to verify his identity in these circumstances, such as video calling 
(which I note was suggested by Mr T).
Mr T was left being unable to pay his rent as he couldnt access his online banking 
and also didnt have his debit card with him, which led to demands being made of 
him from his property management company. He was also blocked from using his 
account for a significant period during the pandemic, which has understandably 
caused him distress and inconvenience. 
After Mr T brought his complaint to this service, Lloyds subsequently agreed to verify 
his identity via video call and also make the rent payment from his account on his 
behalf. Lloyds said they emailed Mr T on 2 February 2021 to arrange the video call, 
but he says he never received any correspondence from them. They also failed to 
make his rent payment despite agreeing to do so. As a result, he says he was forced 
to eventually attend a branch to gain access to his account when he was next able 
to return to the UK. 
It isnt clear why Lloyds did not follow up with Mr T when they were aware of the 
difficulties he was having, as they had his contact details to be able to chase things 
up with him when they didnt receive a response. Our investigator recommended an 
award of £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds 
handling of the matter. And having considered all the evidence, I also consider this 
to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr T may not consider £500 to be commensurate to the experience 
he has had. But in order to make a higher award, I would need to be satisfied that 
the actions of Lloyds have head a greater impact than moderate distress and 
inconvenience, which Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances. I understand 
Mr T has been through a frustrating period throughout his account being blocked 
and has also been threatened with eviction from his UK rental property. But 
fortunately, he was able to unblock his account before there were any serious 
consequences. And while I understand he had been through a difficult period, many 
of the issues he faced (such as not being able to pay his rent) could have been 
avoided if he had remembered to take his debit card with him. So, I dont consider a 
higher award to be warranted. 
Im satisfied that £500 is a fair amount of compensation to be paid in this case, so I will not 
be making any further award.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay 
£500 compensation to Mr T within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman