DRN-2377847
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt process a chargeback 
for her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I was sorry to hear about the problems Miss M has been having and I can understand that it 
must be frustrating for her to have paid for a course and not to have received it.
The chargeback scheme that Miss M sought to benefit from when her training course was 
not delivered, is managed not by Halifax but by Visa. They set time limits within which claims 
need to be submitted and as Miss Ms claim was made more than 120 after she told Halifax 
the course was due to start, Visa would not consider a claim and Halifax couldnt process 
one. 
I understand that Miss M had tried to rearrange the start date to January 2020, but Ive 
reviewed Halifaxs case notes and I cant see she told them about the rearranged date. So, I 
dont think they were unreasonable when they rejected the claim.
Miss M says she didnt receive Halifaxs final response. Had she received it when it was sent 
on 4 April 2020 she may have been able to correct Halifax and advise them there was a 
different date upon which she was due to receive the course. 
Halifax have provided a copy of their final response letter dated 4 April and their system 
information shows that they tried to call Miss M on a few occasions during March and April 
2020, but calls werent answered. That system information also shows that a final response 
letter was sent in April 2020. Im persuaded by the activity around the date of the final 
decision, the log showing a decision was sent, and the availability of the correctly dated 
decision, that a final decision was sent on 4 April 2021. I therefore dont think theres 
evidence that Halifax did anything wrong. They responded within eight weeks and accurately 
considered the evidence they had been given.
Unfortunately, as 120 days has now passed since the rearranged course start date, a further 
chargeback is not possible as its also out of time. In those circumstances Im afraid Miss Ms 
best course of action would be to pursue the supplier, although I understand that has proven 
difficult.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman