DRN-3211111
Complaint
Mr S has complained about that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly applied 
overdraft charges to his account. Hes said he wanted a savings accounts to leave to grow 
and was told this was permitted and he did not have to maintain the account in any way.
Background
Mr S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Nationwide 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Nationwide charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
I now turn to the particular charges applied to Mr S account. I know Mr S says that he 
wanted a savings account and that he was told he didnt have to maintain the account in any 
way. I dont know what Mr S was told when he opened his account. But as far as I can see, 
the issue here isnt so much the type of account Mr S had. Mr S might have a standard 
current account, rather than a savings account, but its fair to say that he wouldnt have paid 
any interest and he instead would have received interest on his credit balance, if he had 
operated the account in the way that he says he intended to at the outset.
However, the issue here is that Mr S didnt leave the funds in this account as a savings pot 
to grow. I say this because having looked at Mr S account statements, while Mr S was 
crediting funds to this account each month, he had a standing order in place which 
immediately transferred these funds to an account with another bank. And as Mr S, at 
stages, transferred more than the funds he had in his account he went overdrawn and was 
charged interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr S statements clearly show that this was happening and he appears to have been sent a 
number of letters indicating that he had an arranged overdraft, which he would have had to 
have agreed to in the first place. As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already 
said earlier, I dont think that Nationwide did charge Mr S unfairly. So it doesnt need to 
refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman