DRN-3276644
Complaint
Mr B has complained about the overdraft charges Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) applied to his account. Amongst other things, hes said they were unfair.
Background
Weve already separately explained why were only ale to look at whether the charges 
Nationwide added to Mr Bs account from September 2013 were added fairly. 
Mr Bs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that Nationwide 
had done anything wrong and or treated Mr B unfairly so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Nationwide charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. So while Mr B appears to be unhappy 
with the amount of the charges themselves, this on its own isnt a reason for me to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint, or something for me to get involved with.
That said, Nationwide wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it applied these 
interest, fees and charges to Mr Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were periods where Nationwide continued charging Mr B 
even though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. 
Ive looked through Mr Bs account statements for the period concerned. But I cant see that 
Nationwide ought to have been aware that Mr B might have been struggling during the 
period weve looked at. Mr B had an overdraft with a large limit and its fair to say that he did 
use his overdraft regularly. But its also fair to say that his monthly income was also high. 
Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr B 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions account going from the account. I dont think its fair to say 
that it the interest, fees and charges, which unfairly prevented Mr B in the way he appears to 
be suggesting, when its appears to be case that he had the disposable income to repay his 
overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr B wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Nationwide to the fact Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty 
and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable to step in here. I say this while 
especially mindful that corrective action in relation to Mr Bs overdraft facility is likely to have 
resulted in adverse information being recorded on his credit file, which the content of his 
complaint suggests he would have been unhappy with. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr B, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. It 
was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr B had the funds to be able to repay his overdraft 
within a reasonable period of time. And bearing in mind the consequences of doing so 
Nationwide taking corrective action in these circumstances, would have been 
disproportionate. So I dont think Nationwide charged Mr B in circumstances where it ought 
to have realised that it was unfair to do so.
Ive also seen Mr Bs comments regarding price caps. Its unclear whether hes referring to 
the regulators new rules which were brought in, in March 2020, or the maximum monthly 
charge rules on unarranged borrowing which came into force in September 2017. But, in any 
event, Ive not seen anything here which persuades me that Nationwide breached either set 
of the rules concerned in Mr Bs case. 
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr B has said about Nationwide not providing him with a list 
of the charges he paid. But Nationwide has provided him with copies of statements for his 
account. And as Mr B has been provided with this information and it contains all of the 
charges Mr B paid, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to say that it has given Mr B 
what he needs such that he is able to access the answers hes seeking. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about the fairness of 
Nationwide applying the charges to Mr Bs account in the circumstances it did, Ive not been 
persuaded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for   
Mr B  especially as he has quite rightly pointed out that it has taken sometime for his 
complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman