DRN-2696386
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs G are unhappy with the condition Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) left their 
home in following a claim for escape of water which damaged their kitchen.
Mr S and Mrs G had buildings and contents insurance with Soteria. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs G throughout my decision.
What happened
While away from home, Mrs Gs kitchen was damaged by a leak under her kitchen floor, 
leaving her home uninhabitable. Soteria arranged alternative accommodation for Mrs G and 
employed the services of a contractor to arrange contents removal, storage and return.
Around a week before moving back home, Mrs G found that her possessions hadnt been 
taken to storage but, instead, left to clutter her home, blocking the staircase and doorways. 
Mrs G felt there had been an invasion of her privacy because some boxes had been put in 
her bedroom, and she was upset that something had been spilled, staining her living room 
carpet.
Mrs G complained to Soteria, but its contractor said items were already stored in the 
bedroom, and the living room carpet was heavily stained before its involvement. Soteria 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint. He said Soteria hadnt left the passageways in 
Mrs Gs home accessible and it wasnt appropriate to store boxes in her bedroom without 
checking first. In recognition of the shortfall, he recommended Soteria pay compensation of 
£75. However, our investigator didnt think there was any evidence that Soteria had 
damaged the living room carpet.
Both Mrs G and Soteria disagreed. Mrs G repeated her view that Soteria had left her home 
in a poor state. Soteria didnt think it had acted unreasonably by storing some of Mrs Gs 
possessions in her bedroom rather than moving everything to storage. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its appropriate to describe the condition of the house and extent of damage 
when Soteria first attended to Mrs Gs claim. An escape of water caused significant damage 
to Mrs Gs kitchen, such that all appliances and kitchen units were replaced under her 
insurance. Before Soteria became involved in the claim, Mrs Gs local council had removed 
her damaged appliances and boxed up some possessions which were stored in her home. 
When Soteria first attended, it took photos which is usual for this type of claim. In addition to 
the water damage, the photos show that Mrs Gs home was cluttered with possessions, 
some boxed up but others not. The stairway has blocked, and some rooms were full, but the 
doors that can be seen were passable.
Unfortunately, Soteria and Mrs G give conflicting views about the level of obstruction already 
present, whether it was appropriate to store boxes in the bedroom, and whether the living 
room carpet was stained. While there is a significant amount of evidence, there isnt a 
completely clear picture of what happened. My decision, then, is based on what I can see in 
the evidence, what is most likely to have happened and whether Soteria acted reasonably in 
the circumstances.
There are two key issues of complaint, which Ill address in turn.
Storage
Mrs G says Soteria cluttered her home with boxes of her possessions, such that she couldnt 
pass through doorways or use the rooms upstairs. Soteria confirmed that it stored some of 
her belongings in other rooms, but it didnt leave the home any more cluttered than it was 
when it first arrived. 
Having looked at the photos of Mrs Gs home when Soteria first attended, its clear that there 
were a lot of possessions stored around the house, including on the stairway and around 
doorways. I think it wouldve been possible to move from one room to another, but theres 
clear evidence that the property was already cluttered. By that point, Mrs Gs local council 
had moved some of her belongings so I cant say what her home was usually like. But that 
also means Soteria wont have known what it was usually like and, therefore, it cant 
reasonably have known that storing some of Mrs Gs belongings in other areas of her house 
wouldve upset her. I can see why it thought storing boxes in rooms where belongings were 
already stored would be acceptable in the circumstances. 
Mrs G gave a detailed description of the obstructions she says Soteria caused with the way 
it stored her belongings. I know Soteria doesnt think it left the house in a condition any 
different to the way it found it, but Mrs G is in a better position to know whether her home felt 
more cluttered than usual. So, I think its fair to accept that as she was upset with the 
condition of her home when she returned to it, it felt more cluttered to her. 
Moving on, Mrs G was upset that Soteria stored boxes in her bedroom. Again, I can see why 
Soteria thought it would be acceptable to store her belongings in areas of her home where 
the council had already done so. But I think its understandable that Mrs G was upset about 
contractors entering her bedroom. She knew they were there to work on clearing her kitchen, 
but she wouldve had a reasonable expectation of privacy in respect of her bedroom, 
regardless of whether the door to it was open. Its for this reason, and the additional clutter 
described above, that I think Soteria should pay Mrs G compensation of £75 by way of 
apology.
Stained carpet
Mrs G says Soteria mustve spilled something on her living room carpet because it was 
stained when she returned home. Soteria disputes this. As Ive said, Soteria took photos 
when it first attended to inspect the damage. Its here that I can see quite clearly that the 
carpet was already heavily stained and worn. So, while I cant be certain that Soteria didnt 
spill something and add to the stains, I dont think its fair to hold it responsible for cleaning 
or replacing a carpet that was already in poor condition. I dont uphold this element of the 
complaint.In summary, its clear that Mrs G has had a difficult time because of the escape of water, 
leading to a lot of disruption in her home. But I think the avoidable disruption caused by 
Soteria was relatively minor in the overall circumstances, and Im not persuaded by the 
evidence that it caused damage to her carpet that would warrant action. However, I think its 
reasonable that Soteria pays Mrs G £75 compensation by way of apology for using her 
bedroom for storage without her express permission, and for any additional clutter she felt it 
had left.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Soteria 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs G £75 compensation by way of apology for using her bedroom for storage 
without permission and for any additional clutter left in other areas of her home.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman