DRN-2046798
The complaint
Mr J complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement ended in July 2019.
The car was collected and inspected and MBFS later asked Mr J to pay charges for damage 
and a missing service.
Mr J disputed the charges. He says he returned the car with no damage and hadnt been 
informed that a service was due by the cars onboard computer.
In its final response, MBFS agreed that the damage charges were unfair. But it said the 
charges for the missing service were fair because the car hadnt been serviced in line with 
the manufacturers recommendation, and that the obligation to service the car formed part of 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Mr J was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said that MBFS hadnt charged Mr J 
unfairly.
Mr J didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although part of Mr Js complaint relates to charges for damage, I can see that the damage 
charges have been removed by MBFS, so I wont be looking at this aspect. Instead, Ill be 
looking at the charges for the missed service.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement. These say that a full 
service history is required and that if it isnt provided then charges will be applied in 
accordance with the vehicle return standards. I can see that Mr J has signed the agreement 
and in doing so, has agreed to be bound by the terms.
Ive also looked at the user manual for the car. This says the car should be serviced every 
12 months or 15,000 miles, whichever is sooner. Based on what Ive seen, Mr J has covered 
more than 15,000 miles so the car should have been serviced.
Theres no dispute that the car hasnt been serviced. Mr J has said that the on board 
computer didnt advise him that a service was required. Even if this was the case, I dont 
think this is a good reason for Mr J not to service the car in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations and the obligations under the agreement. Im of the view that he ought to 
have been aware  from both the agreement and the user manual that he was under an 
obligation to service the car at the recommended intervals.
Based on what Ive seen, I think MBFS has acted fairly by charging for the missed service 
because Mr J failed to service the car in line with his obligations under the agreement.
I appreciate that Mr J is unhappy about the level of charges for the missed service. Hes said 
that the costs of servicing an electric car are lower than MBFS has charged him. Im only 
able to look at whether the charges have been applied fairly. I cant comment on the level of 
charge itself. Charges can vary based on the manufacturer and other factors.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman