DRN-3251161
The complaint
Mrs B says Aviva Insurance Limited (AIL) was responsible for a breach of her data 
protection rights after notifying it of a claim she wanted to make on her car insurance policy. 
She believes the breach led to her receiving several nuisance calls from a third-party claims 
management company (CMC).
What happened
Mrs B reported a claim to AIL in September 2020 after her car was damaged by a third-party 
vehicle. AIL arranged for her car to be repaired by its appointed agent, which Ill refer to as 
S. Mrs B began to receive nuisance calls from a CMC that she hadnt received calls from 
before and she complained to AIL. 
AIL responded to Mrs B and, in December 2020, S wrote to Mrs B to say her data might 
have been impacted by an incident involving a former employee and that this had been 
reported to the authorities.
AIL said it wasnt possible to say whether the nuisance calls were made because her data 
had been improperly accessed or shared by Ss former employee. It added that neither AIL 
or S accepted responsibility for the former employees actions since they were illegal and 
unauthorised. But AIL confirmed the incident had been reported to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).  
Unhappy with AILs response, Mrs B complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They said there was no evidence 
Mrs Bs data had been shared with CMCs or other unauthorised parties and that the ICO 
was still investigating the matter. The investigator also said any breach was caused by a 
rogue employee of Ss which meant  as per the common law position  AIL shouldnt be 
held vicariously liable for the employees actions.  
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said, among other things, that few 
organisations, if any, would authorise their employees to commit a data breach although that 
didnt stop them in any case from being responsible for any harm done to their customers as 
a result. 
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise that Mrs Bs frustrated, upset and annoyed at receiving the nuisance calls that 
she has. Im sorry to hear that Mrs Bs been subjected to them and that she feels AIL and S 
have largely ignored her concerns. 
I appreciate why Mrs B believes the CMC got her personal details from AIL or S. The timing 
of the start of the calls would seem, on the face of it, to be consistent with that. But it 
appears AILs carried out a suitable investigation of the matter and found no connection to 
the CMC. Im satisfied that AIL took Mrs Bs complaint seriously and investigated her 
concerns, even though it didnt ultimately find in her favour. 
In addition, AIL reported the incident to the ICO. I dont think it would be fair for me to make 
an award against AIL before the ICOs completed its investigation and issued its findings on 
the matter. Having checked with AIL more recently, I gather the ICOs investigations 
ongoing.
Even if there was sufficient evidence, on balance, of a link between the nuisance calls Mrs B 
received and AIL or S (and I dont think there is), it seems this may have been due to the 
actions of Ss former employee. As our investigators explained, from a common law 
perspective, there are limits to what an employers responsible for when it comes to the 
actions of an employee. 
In terms of the former employee in question, my understandings that there are various 
factors the courts would take account of in determining whether an employer should be held 
responsible for their actions. One of the most significant of these is the purpose behind the 
employees actions. So, an employer would be less likely to be held vicariously liable for the 
actions of an employee who wasnt engaged in activity at the relevant time intended to 
further the employers business. 
Given that, if there was any damage caused by a breach in this case it was seemingly 
brought about by the actions of a rogue employee acting in their own interests, Im not 
satisfied I can fairly conclude AIL should be held liable for them in the circumstances.   
Clearly, Ive reached my decision based on the information available to me as of now. I cant 
say with any certainty what evidence may become available in future. Should the ICO, or 
any other, investigation shed new light on these events it would be open for Mrs B to 
approach AIL for its response or for it to contact her proactively.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman