DRN-1635202
 
Complaint 
Mr C complains about the administration of a whole-of-life policy by Phoenix Life Limited. He 
is unhappy that incorrect information was given to him about the value of the policy.
Background
In April 1996, Mr C took out a Sun Alliance (now part of Phoenix Life) protection plan. It 
initially provided life cover of £20,000 (the sum assured) and critical illness cover of £60,000 
for a monthly premium of £20 per month. The policy was set to be reviewed on the tenth 
anniversary and then every five years after that to ensure the performance of the funds were 
sufficient to meet the sum assured. In 2012, Mr C increased the level of cover without 
amending the premium. 
In June 2019, Mr C complained to Phoenix as he was unhappy with the rate at which his 
policy had reduced in value. Phoenix explained that it had provided incorrect information to 
him in his 2016, 2017 and 2018 annual statements about the value of the policy. It said a 
systems error had led to a higher value being quoted. Mr C was unhappy his policy was now 
virtually worthless, and because he had been misled about the value of the policy, he lost 
the chance to cash it in. Phoenix apologised and paid Mr C £200 to recognise the error it 
made. It said it had provided correct information to Mr C at the 2016 contractual review 
about the performance of the policy but he didnt choose to make any changes. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In his 
opinion, Phoenix had fairly compensated Mr C for the errors it made in the annual 
statements. He didnt think the evidence supported that Mr C would have done anything 
different with his policy. Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings. He maintained that 
he had lost out because of the incorrect information in the annual statements. The complaint 
has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld  Ill explain why. 
Ive reviewed the details of the policy Mr C took out. The policy is unit linked. The money 
paid in premiums is spilt  some will be used to buy the protection benefits and the rest 
invested by purchasing units.  It is also a reviewable policy meaning there are contractual 
reviews throughout the time the policy is held. As mentioned above, the purpose of the 
reviews is to ensure that there is enough value in the policy to pay for the ongoing cost of 
providing cover. This does mean that if the underlying performance of the fund is lower than 
expected the value of the policy can be used to pay for the cost of maintaining the cover at 
the agreed level. In this case, Mr Cs policy did suffer from lower investment growth than 
assumed and this impacted on the policy being able to maintain the cover. I think it is worth explaining, the change Mr C made to the benefit level in 2012 is also likely 
to have impacted on how quickly the policy value reduced. As he increased the benefit level 
quite significantly without any large change to the premium, the policy needed to perform at 
a higher rate to achieve the requested cover. The risk here is that if the policy doesnt 
perform well the units will be used to pay for the cover quickly and less of the premium will 
be used to increase the investment value of the policy. Unfortunately, the policy didnt 
perform as well as required, so the value of it was eroded away to pay for the cover Mr C 
requested. 
However, Phoenix did make some mistakes in the information it gave Mr C about his policy. 
Essentially, for several years the information in the annual statements over exaggerated its 
value. Phoenix has admitted this error. In order to decide what it is fair and reasonable, I 
need to consider if Mr C has lost out as a result. So Ive thought about what is most likely to 
have happened if Mr C was given the correct information about the value of his policy in all 
of his annual statements. 
Mr C says he would have acted differently  and cashed it in - if he was given the correct 
information about how much the policy had dropped in value between 2016 and 2018. Ive 
considered his testimony, but Im also conscious this view has been made with the benefit of 
hindsight. For example, by the time Mr C made his complaint, the policy had continued to fall 
to the point it had virtually no value. So actually knowing the policy has lost all of its value 
over a few years is likely to influence Mr Cs view of whether cashing in the policy sooner 
would have been a good idea. 
Ive also considered the actions which Mr C took at the 2016 contractual policy review - as 
well as those at the 2018 and 2019 ad-hoc reviews. The information Ive seen shows that the 
2016 review letter was initially sent in February that year and it appears a query was raised 
by Mr C as it was re-sent a couple of month later in April. The April letter, which was 
correctly addressed to Mr C, confirmed an error in the February letter and corrected the 
information and set out the options going for forward for the policy. In the review letter there 
is a statement saying Mr C needed to take action as unless he did it is likely the policy value 
will be exhausted before the next review. The letter gave Mr C the option to increase his 
premium in order to maintain the current benefits. It also gave him the option to keep the 
premium at the same level but reduce the benefit. Finally, there was an option to do nothing 
 but again this contained a warning that if the current premium isnt sufficient to support the 
benefit level the policy may lapse. Im satisfied, it is apparent from this review the policy 
wasnt performing well enough to maintain the current benefit level. Phoenix say Mr C didnt 
respond to this review, so by default the last option to do nothing was taken.
In October 2018, an ad-hoc review was completed, and the same options were given about 
the future of the policy. It gave a warning that if the premium is not sufficient to pay for the 
cost of providing cover, units will be encashed and once the unit holding reduces to zero the 
policy will lapse, and all cover will cease. It was also confirmed that the actuaries had 
reviewed the policy and the unit value was low and it was likely the value of the policy would 
be exhausted soon. So, from this point, I think it would have been very clear to Mr C that 
there was a high risk of his policy lapsing without value. But he didnt seek to cash the policy 
in at this time or make any changes. Mr C has told us that the reason he didnt cash in the 
policy was because he wanted to salvage something from it to protect his family. 
In May 2019, Phoenix wrote to Mr C as the policy was due to lapse because the point had 
been reached where the fund value was insufficient to support the benefit level. Another ad-
hoc review was done at this time and Mr C was given the same options to amend the policy 
if he wanted it to continue. On this occasion he did amend the policy and changed the level 
of cover provided but kept the premium the same. This allowed the policy to stay in force but 
at a much reduced benefit level. It was after this that Mr C raised his complaint. Taking all of this into account, there is evidence to support that Mr C didnt intend to cash the 
policy in, even when he knew it was at risk of losing value to the point it would lapse. The 
information contained in the 2016 and 2018 review letters both provide information about the 
need to act and the risk of the policy losing all value. In my opinion, it is clear at both 
junctions there was a strong likelihood of the policy lapsing if Mr C took no action. The fact 
he didnt seek to cash in his policy at either of these times, doesnt support that he would 
have even if he had the correct information about the policy values in his annual statements.
Ive noted Mr Cs points about the policy reviews failing to give him all the information 
necessary for him to decide on what action to take. Ive considered this point in the context 
of the original complaint Mr C made to Phoenix. I think there is sufficient information within 
these letters to tell him that his policy wasnt performing at a level to maintain the benefit 
selected and there was a risk of it lapsing. I appreciate that Mr C may have liked more 
information to help him decide what he should do about the policy going forward but I think 
this is a separate issue. I also havent seen anything to suggest these review letters were 
sent at a different time to that which they are dated. For the reasons explained, I think these 
review letters are relevant when considering what Mr C would likely have done had he 
received correct information in his annual statements. 
Ive also considered the points Mr C has raised about not being given the option to reduce 
the sum assured on his policy until 2019. I dont agree that this was the first time he was 
given this option. Both in 2016 and 2018 it was set out that he could consider this but there 
is nothing to show that he selected to. While he did choose to make the amendment in 2019, 
Im satisfied this type of change was made available to him at least twice before. 
I do understand the difficult position Mr C is in now because his policy has little value and the 
cover is much reduced compared to the original levels. But I dont think the incorrect values 
quoted in the annual statements are the cause of him being in this position. Ive considered 
the offer Phoenix made to recognise the impact of the mistakes it made. I think it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I think it would have come as shock to Mr C to find out the 
information was incorrect, so it is fair that compensation is paid to him.  But I dont think 
Phoenix needs to pay him anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman