DRN-2420179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down an accidental 
damage claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 January 2020, Mr O had an accident while carrying his laptop. He made an accidental 
damage claim on his home insurance policy. Ageas asked Mr O to send in a cause of 
damage report, so that it could assess the claim and check whether the laptop could be 
repaired or whether it needed to be replaced.
Around 10 days later, Mr O called Ageas back. He said hed been to a few shops and hadnt 
been able to get a report. But he told Ageas that his son-in-law had looked at the laptop and 
had said the screen had cracked and the hard drive was broken. He said his son-in-law 
worked in IT and had written a report which he would sign and send in. Ageas call hander 
told Mr O it would look at the report but given the family connection between Mr O and his 
son-in-law, he didnt know if it would be valid.
The following day, Mr O called again. During this call, the call handler told Mr O that shed 
appoint one of Ageas contractors to inspect the laptop and validate the claim. Mr O told the 
call handler that his daughter-in-law had thrown the laptop away, which meant it couldnt be 
inspected. On this basis, Ageas told Mr O that hed provided no evidence to show hed 
owned the laptop or that itd been damaged. So it turned down his claim.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with Ageas decision. They said Ageas hadnt told them that 
they had to keep the laptop. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. She noted the 
policy included a term which required a policyholder to provide Ageas with any evidence it 
asked for in support of a claim. In this case, Mr and Mrs O hadnt provided any evidence in 
support of their claim. She thought Ageas had clearly told Mr O that his son-in-laws report 
might not be valid and so she thought it wouldve been reasonable to expect the laptop to be 
kept until the claim was resolved. She wasnt persuaded that Ageas ought to have made this 
explicit to Mr O. So she felt it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs Os claim.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. They felt they shouldve been told to keep the laptop and that it 
would be collected for inspection. They also felt Ageas had mishandled their claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs Os claim. Ill explain 
why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr and Mrs O have claimed for accidental damage to a 
laptop. They do have accidental damage cover on their policy. But for the claim to be paid, 
Ageas needed to be satisfied that the damage was caused accidentally; that Mr and Mrs O 
owned the item they were claiming for and whether the laptop needed to be repaired or 
replaced.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event and 
that their claim is valid. Mr and Mrs Os policy includes a section called Claims  your duty 
which sets out things a policyholder needs to do when they make a claim. One of the terms 
within this section says that a policyholder must:
When asked, send us all the documents and information (including written estimates and 
proof of ownership or value) we may need.
Ive listened carefully to the calls between Mr O and Ageas. When Mr O first called to make 
the claim, he was told hed need to get a damage report and a written quote for Ageas to 
consider. I think it was reasonable for Ageas to ask for this information  both so it could 
confirm that the damage had been caused accidentally, in line with the policy definition of 
accidental damage and to check whether the laptop needed to be repaired or replaced. 
Mr O then said hed visited computer shops but hadnt been able to get this information. He 
told Ageas his son-in-law had completed a report which hed sign. Ageas said it would 
consider this information but given the report had been prepared by a member of Mr Os 
family, the call handler didnt know if it would be valid. Again, I think this was a reasonable 
position for Ageas to take. Thats because it was prepared to look at the evidence Mr O was 
able to provide. But given Mr Os relationship with the person who wrote the report, it would 
be difficult to say the evidence was independent.
Given the difficulties Mr O had had in getting the information Ageas needed to validate his 
claim, Ageas offered to get an independent contractor to inspect the laptop on its behalf. I 
think this was a reasonable and sensible suggestion to move the claim forwards. 
Unfortunately, Mr O then explained that his daughter-in-law had thrown the laptop away in a 
skip. This meant that Ageas wasnt able to look at the laptop; establish what had caused the 
damage and whether the cause was covered by the policy; or confirm whether it needed to 
be repaired or replaced. It also had no evidence to show that Mr and Mrs O had owned the 
laptop; its specification or how much theyd paid for it. So it simply had no way of validating 
the claim or deciding whether or not it should be paid. On this basis, I think it was fair for 
Ageas to decide to turn down the claim.
I appreciate Ageas call handlers didnt explicitly tell Mr O that he shouldnt dispose of the 
laptop. Ive thought about this. But I think Ageas clearly explained that it needed evidence to 
show how the damage had happened and what that evidence might be. Im also mindful that 
there were only 11 days between Mr O calling to make the claim and him telling Ageas the 
laptop had been thrown away  this wasnt a protracted or unreasonably delayed claim. I 
think Ageas couldve reasonably expected Mr and Mrs O to retain the laptop, in case it 
needed to inspect it or ascertain what a new for old model might be during the claims 
process. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Ageas should pay the claim 
on the basis that its handlers didnt tell Mr O to ensure the laptop wasnt thrown away.
Overall, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr and Mrs Os claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman