DRN-3115408
The complaint
Mrs R says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs R between 
January 2016 and November 2018.
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 22/01/2016 £200 20 04/05/2016
2 04/05/2016 £400 33 08/12/2016
3 08/12/2016 £600 33 13/06/2017
4 13/06/2017 £600 33 15/09/2017
5 30/11/2017 £700 33 05/07/2018
6 05/07/2018 £1,000 33 20/08/2018
7 09/11/2018 £500 33 12/07/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that it was irresponsible for 
Morses to have approved loans 1 to 3. But he thought that Morses shouldnt have approved 
loans 4 to 7. This is because he thought that the lending pattern itself was harmful at this 
point. 
Mrs R said that she agreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached.
Morses didnt entirely agree with the adjudicator. It did say that it shouldnt have approved 
loans 6 and 7. And it made an offer of compensation on the basis the adjudicator had 
recommended for these loans. 
But it disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about loans 4 and 5. Morses said that its 
checks showed that all of the loans were affordable, and Mrs R didnt have any problems 
repaying these loans. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mrs R agreed with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this, I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mrs R had with Morses. So, 
these loans are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
And Morses has agreed that it shouldnt have approved loans 6 and 7. I wont look at these 
in detail, but I agree that Morses shouldnt have approved them. I have included the 
compensation for these loans in my putting things right section below. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 and 5 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mrs R, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Rs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:Mrs R had been indebted to Morses for around 18 months. And she was making a 
commitment to make repayments for another 33 weeks. I think this is a long time for 
her to be using high cost credit, given what Morses knew about her circumstances. 
Mrs Rs first loan was for £200 and loan 4 was for £600. This is a significant increase. 
And Mrs R was provided with new loans very shortly after settling her previous ones. 
This suggests to me that Mrs R was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in her income but to meet an ongoing, and increasing, need. I dont think there is a 
pattern of decreasing or managed debt here. And its likely she would continue to 
need to borrow going forward. 
And so, its not that relevant that the information Morses had showed that the loans 
may be affordable, as the lending pattern itself now looked harmful. 
Mrs R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 7 was 
taken out not far short of three years after Mrs Rs first. And Mrs R had taken some 
large loans within this lending relationship. Mrs R had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs R lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Mrs R borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 7 and Morses should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs R from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs R loans 4 to 7.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs R towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs R the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Rs borrowing for loans 4 to 7 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Rs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman