DRN-3778544
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table about the loans approved and the 
income and expenditure figures Morses used.
Loan Start Date Capital Settled Term 
weeksRepay Income Expenses
1 03/12/2015 £200.00 23/03/2016 20 £15.00 £414.00 £125.00
2 23/03/2016 £300.00 01/12/2016 33 £15.00 £500.00 £210.00
3 01/12/2016 £300.00 15/06/2017 33 £15.00 £451.00 £140.00
4 15/06/2017 £400.00 26/01/2018 33 £20.00 £350.00 £180.00
5 09/02/2018 £500.00 10/08/2018 33 £25.00 £404.00 £0.00
6 10/08/2018 £600.00 29/03/2019 33 £30.00 £255.00 £98.00
The first two applications for the loans were done as paper applications and I have been
sent those copies. Mr Ws income came from benefits. He was living with another person.
After Morses final response letter was issued, in which it said it did not uphold Mr Ws
complaint, one of our adjudicators at the Financial Ombudsman Service looked at the
complaint. He thought that there was evidence of unsustainability and/or harm because
Mr W had been borrowing from Morses for some time and the amounts had increased a lot.
Our adjudicator considered that Morses should put things right for loans 4 to 6.
Morses disagreed and gave reasons why  all of which I have reviewed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 4 November 2022 I issued a 
provisional decision in which I explained and gave reasons as to why I thought that only 
loan 6 should be upheld.
I gave time for both parties to respond. Morses agreed and we informed Mr Ws 
representative that Morses had agreed to it. Mr W has agreed to it as well. So, I set out here 
the reasoning and findings in the decision I issued on 4 November 2022 which are 
unchanged as the final determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of different things,
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income and
expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. Our adjudicator considered this
to be the case for Mr W for loans 4 to 6.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether he technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
My decision is that I uphold loan 6 only as the small amount of evidence I have from both 
sides for the application made in August 2018 shows that Mr Ws income dropped from £404 
a week to £255 a week and his application was for the largest amount in the lending 
relationship - £600. And I have considered other elements of the complaint in coming to this 
conclusion.
Loans 1 to 3
At loan 1 Morses carried out a credit search which is dated 30 November 2015. That set of
results have been sent to me and its rare that I see a credit file information with so little on it.It seems that Mr W had one SHARE account which had been opened just two months
before he applied to Morses for loan 1 and had no debt.
Morses does not repeat its credit search after the first loan  I do not know why  and so
there are no others. But I dont consider its unreasonable of me to think that for loans 1, 2 
and 3, all of which were December 2015 and in 2016, that the credit search dated 
November 2015 likely was enough to inform Morses as to Mr Ws position. 
Added to which Mr W had told Morses of his income and outgoings. And looking at the 
handwritten forms, Mr W had said on one that he could afford an additional £100 a week and 
on the other £50 week. So, it seems very likely that Mr W was able to afford these three 
loans comfortably on current evidence.
So, I have relatively little doubt that Mr W was able to afford loans 1 to 3. I do not uphold
the complaint about loans 1 to 3.
Loans 4 and 5
I dont consider I have enough evidence to be satisfied that Mr W was unable to repay
loans 4 and 5 sustainably or that the repayment amounts of £20 and £25 a week were such
a sum that they caused Mr W harm. Especially considering the historic information for 2015
and 2016 which I have outlined above. And especially with the total lack of any evidence or
financial information about Mr W for the period covering loans 4 and 5. 
Morses had recorded £0 expenditure costs for loan 5 which is inappropriate and shows lack 
of care in my view. The loans did not overlap. I do not uphold loans 4 and 5.
Loan 6
Again, it is unfortunate that I have so little information from either party by this stage. Mr W
has sent me nothing about his financial situation in or around 2018. And Morses has given
me a table to show his weekly income was £255 and his weekly expenditure was £98 made
up of food at £70 and media at £8. The third item recorded as expenditure was other credit
at £20 a week. This was the first time this had been recorded and so Morses knew that Mr W
had started to take credit elsewhere.
But I do think that after lending continuously for two years and 9 months to Mr W (and I think
that the 10 day gap between loans 4 and 5 is neither here nor there) Morses ought to have
realised that he was filling a hole left by the repayments for the earlier loans. And the
repetitive nature of the lending was otherwise unsustainable.
I say this because he had been indebted to Morses for two years and 9 months. This was a
reasonably long time to be using high cost credit in itself. At loan 6 Mr W was making a
commitment to make repayments for a further 33 weeks and the £30 a week was on top of 
the other credit it now knew Mr W had. The £30 a week commitment for loan 6 was the 
highest weekly payment he had had to pay in all of the lending relationship.
Borrowing consecutively for many months and without any breaks highlights the fact that
Mr W was likely to be having trouble making ends meet.
I think that Mr W lost out because Morses provided loan 6: 
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to
take expensive credit over an extended period of time; and the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 6 and Morses should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W at loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr W in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr W loan 6. I understand all the loans have been paid off.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest,
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing for loan 6 means any information recorded about
it is adverse, so it should remove loan 6 entirely from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
 give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined in the putting things right section of the final decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman