DRN-4208019
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs and Mr S hold with Leeds Building (LBS). Theyre 
unhappy that LBS gave them incorrect information about the mortgage in a series of phone 
calls during 2022. They say this held up their attempts to switch the mortgage to a new 
interest rate. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr S and LBS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr S being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, 
rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr S took the mortgage out in 2020; it was for a little over £169,000 (including fees), 
with a term of 20 years, and an initial interest rate product running to 30 November 2022. In 
September 2022, Mrs and Mr S made a lump sum payment of £6,000, which took the 
balance down to a little under £163,000. However, in a phone conversation, a staff member 
of LBS got confused, thinking the lower balance was the amount outstanding before the 
lump sum was taken off, and told Mr S the lump sum would reduce the balance to around 
£156,000. In another call, a staff member mistakenly indicated Mrs and Mr S had paid the 
fees that had been added to the mortgage.
Whilst this was happening, Mrs and Mr S were in the process of applying for a new interest 
rate product, as the initial rate was due to expire on 30 November 2022. When LBS issued 
its final response to Mrs and Mr S complaint, on 21 September 2022, it apologised for the 
mis-information, offered £50 compensation for the poor service. It also reminded 
Mrs and Mr S that if they wanted to continue with the new interest rate, they should sign and 
return the acceptance, and pay the arrangement fee, by 6 October 2022.
Our investigator thought LBS response to the complaint was fair; Mrs and Mr S have asked 
for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They also told us that, whilst the final 
response said the £50 would be credited to their current account, it hasnt been.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. Its for me to decide what the material issues are 
that will affect the eventual outcome. Its also my judgement on what evidence I need to see 
and consider, in order to reach a fair decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault; LBS admits it made mistakes and has 
apologised and offered compensation (albeit there is some confusion over whether the sum 
was paid as stated in the final response). All that leaves for me to decide is whether LBS 
response provides a fair settlement or not.
Mrs and Mr S say their switch to a new interest rate was held up by LBS inefficiency. I dont 
see why that should be the case; the existing rate ran until 30 November 2022, and LBS 
dealt with the complaint on 21 September 2022. At the same time. it reminded Mrs and Mr S 
of what they needed to do to secure the new rate, and that they had until 6 October 2022 to 
do it. 
If the product switch was held up by any problems or issues that arose after 
21 September 2022, Mrs and Mr S would need to start a new complaint with LBS about 
those issues, and could then refer that complaint to us if not satisfied with the response they 
received. 
I can only consider the mistakes LBS made and then owned up to in the final response of 
21 September 2022. Clearly, they shouldnt have happened, and I can fully appreciate 
Mrs and Mr S will have found them irksome. But they were errors of information only; they 
caused annoyance, but no financial detriment, and were soon put right. In such 
circumstances, I consider £50 to be fair and reasonable. If this sum had not been offered, I 
would not be awarding more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be fairly and reasonably determined by Leeds 
Building Society paying Mrs and Mr S the £50 compensation it said it would pay in the final 
response of 21 September 2022. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman