DRN-2129207
The complaint
Mr N complains that some OEIC investments he was advised to start by Aberdeen Asset
Investments Limited will be subject to tax when he sells them. He says he was given to
believe that any sales would be tax-free.
What happened
Mr N says that when he took out the investments in 1997, he was told by the adviser that
any gains on the OEICs would be tax-free, and this was reiterated to him at a review of all
his investments in 2001. He says hes recently looked at withdrawing from the investments
and discovered that gains will be subject to tax.
He raised the matter with Aberdeen, but it didnt think there was any evidence that supported
Mr N having been misinformed about the tax situation with the OEICs.
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached broadly the same
conclusion as Aberdeen.
She noted that Mr N had provided two documents in support of his position. The first was a
letter relating to the original advice. It was noted that one of Mr Ns objectives was to achieve
tax-efficiency. But, despite this, the investigator felt there was nothing in the letter to indicate
that Mr N had been told that any gains on the OEICs would be tax-free.
Further to this was a document from 2001, listing all Mr Ns investments, which included
PEPs, ISAs, OEICs and bonds. The document had been annotated with some handwritten
notes, apparently by the adviser, and Mr N had highlighted that the words possibly tax
unlikely had been added next to the listing for the OEICs. He felt this supported his position.
But the investigator noted that these words didnt have the same meaning as the words tax-
free, which had been written next to the PEP and ISA listings.
Mr N didnt accept the investigator view. He made a number of points concerning the
advisers employment status and the lack of documentation that Aberdeen had available. But
he primarily reiterated his point about what had been written next to the OEIC listing in the
2001 document. He noted that similar wording had been written next to the bond listings in
the document and that it had been possible to take tax-free income from the bonds, so this
indicated that the position was the same for the OEICs.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the
same reasons.
Its clear that Mr N has strong feelings about the matter. Hes provided detailed submissions
to support his complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust
that he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,
and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for
reaching them.
I note Mr Ns comments about the status of the adviser. But I dont think they impact the
outcome of the complaint. There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Aberdeen is
responsible for the advice and information given to Mr N. The dispute is whether (or not) that
advice was correct.
Mr K says that he was told that any gains on the investments he made into the OEICs would
be tax-free. He says he was specifically told this in 1997 when the investments were taken
out and it was reiterated to him four years later when all his investments were reviewed.
I note his recollections, but I must also consider the documentary evidence and although its
limited, there is some available. However, I dont consider that any of it supports Mr Ns
contention that he was told the OEICs were tax-free.
As the investigator noted, although the letter from the adviser in 1997 highlights tax 
efficiency as Mr Ns primary objective and indicates discussion of tax-free products (PEPs, 
TESSAs) and the use of Mr Ns capital gains allowance, the letter makes no reference to
OEICs or them being tax-free.
The later document from 2001 does refer to the OEICs, alongside Mr Ns other investments,
with, as noted, the hand-written annotation possibly tax unlikely. Mr N has said that he took
the use of the word unlikely to mean definitely not. But I dont think its reasonable to
interpret that note as meaning that the OEICs would be completely free of tax.
The OEICS were listed next to Mr Ns PEPs and ISAs, alongside both of which was the
hand-written note tax-free. I think its reasonable to assume that if the adviser had thought
the OEICs had been tax-free and had wanted to communicate that to Mr N, he wouldve
added the same note next to them. Instead he chose to differentiate them by saying that tax
was unlikely.
And I think that was reasonable because there wouldve been some circumstances in which
tax might not have been paid on gains made by them  for instance, if Mr Ns capital gains
tax allowance had been utilised.
I note what hes said about the bonds having the same note next to them and some
withdrawals having been made tax-free, therefore implying that possibly tax unlikely meant
the same as tax-free. But the bonds were similar to the OEICs in the sense that
withdrawals in certain circumstances could be made tax-free. But not always, hence the
advisers use of unlikely.
I recognise that Mr N will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the
investigator, but in all the circumstances, I dont think, on balance, I can reasonably find that
the adviser acted incorrectly and misled Mr N about the tax treatment of the OEICs.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman