DRN-3122794
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) provided when he 
claimed under his home emergency policy for an electrical fault.
What happened
Mr F reported an electrical fault with his power shower switch to BG. The earliest 
appointment it could offer was two weeks later. Unhappy at being without bathing facilities 
for so long, Mr F appointed a private electrician to complete the repair. Around three weeks 
later he experienced a second fault and, again, BG could only offer an appointment for two 
weeks later. Mr F says BG didnt attend so he employed a private electrician again to 
complete the repair.
Mr F complained to BG that it hadnt handled his claim well. He said the advice to wash 
using a wet towel was inappropriate and he didnt think BG had offered appointments that 
fell within a reasonable timescale.
BG said Mr F hadnt allowed it access at the appointed times, so it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
At first, our investigator didnt think BG had done anything wrong. However, on receipt of 
further evidence he recommended that BG should reimburse Mr F the cost of the third-party 
works plus 8% interest, and pay compensation of £100 for the service shortfalls.
BG said it would pay the first electrical repair fee, but it didnt agree that it had provided poor 
service or that reimbursement of the second invoice was warranted. Thats because it 
considered the work that had been done was betterment.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
BG has agreed to cover the cost of the first repair completed by Mr Fs electrician. I think 
thats fair in the circumstances because its a repair BG wouldve completed under the 
policy. 
Mr F would like BG to reimburse the invoice for the subsequent third-party repair. BG doesnt 
think the work was covered under his policy, and it says the work was betterment. BG relied 
on the following policy exclusion:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
Were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed
Existed when you first took out the product
Weve told you about before and you havent fixed
We couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before. For example, 
faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, which are buried under concrete 
floors
Or, prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over
Here, BG is saying that the work Mr F had done was to replace pre-existing faulty wiring 
which means it was an upgrade. I understand what BG is saying but I dont agree. Mr F had 
the work done because there was a fault which he says caused the electrical wire to burn. 
BG hadnt inspected the damage, and Ill return to this point, so it cant reasonably know 
what the damage was and whether there was a pre-existing fault.
Ive thought about BGs view that the work was betterment. I agree that the policy only 
covers repairs and it is not there to provide improvements. However, if an improvement is 
made in the course of repairing a fault, I cant say that means its betterment. For example, if 
standards required a certain type of wire when the property was built and that has since 
changed, I wouldnt expect BG to replace with the old standard. Id expect the current 
standard would be fitted so that would be improving the wiring, but only as a matter of 
course when completing the repair. Ive looked at what the policy says on this:
Making any improvements
Your product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system when it 
stops working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or upgrades, for example: 
replacing smoke alarms that are past their recommended replacement date or expiry date, 
replacing working radiators, swapping standard radiator valves for thermostatic ones and 
replacing electrical cables and fuseboards that still work.
I think its clear that reference to improvements in the policy are more about personal or 
cosmetic preference for a newer standard. The policy states that this wont be covered if the 
existing cables and fuse boards still work. Mr Fs shower had stopped working because he 
says the wire had suffered damage. So, I think its fair to say that any improvement was 
simply because a newer standard replacement was fitted to effect a lasting repair to the 
older standard wiring which had stopped working.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that BG should reimburse Mr F the full cost of the third-party 
repairs shown in the invoice he provided.
Mr F complained about the appointments BG offered. He confirmed the property didnt have 
other bathing facilities, but BG was unable to offer anything until two weeks later. The same 
was true when he raised his second claim.
The policy provides for repairs within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our 
control makes that impossible. Mr Fs claim was over the winter, festive period and I 
understand its a peak time for emergency claims. I havent seen anything to explain why 
appointments were not made available to him sooner than two weeks later on each 
occasion, though I have no reason to doubt that BG couldnt offer anything. However, I can 
understand that Mr F wouldve been concerned about the safety of the wiring and 
inconvenienced at having been without bathing facilities for four weeks at this point.
That brings me to Mr Fs concerns regarding BGs response when he said there were no 
other bathing facilities. He was unhappy with the advice given which was to use a wet towel. 
Although theres no evidence of this advice, I have no reason to doubt that Mr F was upset by the way BG responded to his reasonable concerns about being without bathing facilities. I 
think thats a shortfall in service.
Returning to the comment I made earlier that BG hadnt seen the damage, Mr F says BG 
didnt turn up to the second appointment. BG says it attended both appointments, but it was 
either denied access or Mr F didnt answer the door. Looking at BGs records, it seems Mr F 
had always expressed his dissatisfaction regarding the first appointment. Indeed, he refused 
the first one because he didnt think it was soon enough but then provisionally accepted it for 
the day after. While BG says he denied access, I can see that BGs engineer called Mr F 
and he said he no longer needed the appointment because hed had the work done. 
BG said Mr F rescheduled the appointment but that doesnt seem to be the case. Its records 
show that he reported a further fault a few days later and he asked for an appointment which 
BG arranged for two weeks later. Although the engineer reported no answer when he 
attended, Mr F says he was in all day. I cant see that the engineer phoned Mr F while there. 
Looking at the invoice Mr F provided for the third-party repair, its dated the following day. I 
find it unlikely that hed wait until the day after the appointment to have the repair done if he 
never intended to accept BGs appointment. The timeline supports Mr Fs complaint.
Overall, I dont think BGs handling of Mr Fs claim was reasonable for the reasons Ive 
given. I think compensation of £100 is fair in the circumstances and in line with awards wed 
make for complaints of this nature. As Ive said, Im satisfied that Mr Fs claim for 
reimbursement of his third-party costs is fair, and that should include 8 % simple interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and British Gas 
Insurance Limited must:
reimburse Mr F a total of £605 to cover the cost of the third-party repairs to his 
shower;
pay 8% simple interest* on the reimbursement, and
pay him £100 compensation for the service shortfalls identified above.
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman