DRN-4305517
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr J complain about the way Covea Insurance plc has handled a claim under a 
motor insurance policy. 
Because Mr J has been leading on this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
In early February 2023, Mr J reported to Covea that hed been involved in a motor 
incident. He said a third-party vehicle had scratched the side of his car when he was 
reversing out of his driveway to complete a U-turn.   
Mr J told Covea his car had been purchased through a finance agreement and was 
due to be returned to the finance company in early March 2023, and so, he needed 
the claim dealt with promptly. 
On 1 March, Covea agreed to settle the claim and offered Mr J a cash settlement 
minus the excess payable under his policy. It also told Mr J the claim had been 
recorded as a fault claim.
Unhappy with how the claim had been handled, Mr J complained to Covea. In its final 
response, it explained that an excess applied regardless of the fault liability status, 
but it accepted it could have told Mr J earlier on that it considered him to be at fault. 
So, it paid him £70 compensation.  
Mr J remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it. 
Because Mr J disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. And Ill explain why. 
Excess
Mr J has said hes not complaining about having to pay an excess in connection with 
the claim, but as this was addressed in Coveas final response to him, Ive included it 
for completeness. 
Although Mr J considers himself to not be at fault for the incident and therefore, not 
responsible for paying the excess, as hes making a claim, the excess applies 
because ultimately, it is still a claim on his policy, and the excess isnt linked to whos 
at fault. 
Covea has explained this to Mr J, and its also stated in the policy document which 
says Excess  The amount of money you must pay towards the cost of a claim. So, 
Im satisfied Covea has fairly deducted the excess from the cash settlement amount.
If the third-party insurer accepts liability, Mr J could try to reclaim the excess from it. 
But thats for him to do, not Covea  and so, I dont consider Covea to have acted 
unfairly by not pursuing this on Mr Js behalf. 
Liability 
Its not this Services role to determine which party is at fault in a motor incident. 
Rather, its to consider whether the insurer has handled the claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner when reaching its position on liability  which includes how its 
chosen to settle the claim. 
Covea has said the claim is currently recorded as fault and has offered a cash 
settlement allowing Mr J to have the necessary repairs carried out. 
Whilst Mr J has said the third-party admitted their fault at the scene, there isnt 
evidence to support this. Covea has attempted - on several occasions - to get in 
touch with the third party but hasnt been successful in doing so. 
Covea has explained why the circumstances at the time of the incident meant it 
would be difficult for it to defend the claim  namely because Mr J was the party 
conducting a manoeuvre at the time of the incident and there isnt CCTV to support 
his account.  
Im satisfied Covea has given Mr J the opportunity to dispute liability by sending and 
asking him to complete a manual claims form  it says it hasnt received this, though 
Mr J refutes this.   
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Covea reached its decision on liability having 
considered all the available evidence. And so, it was reasonable for Covea to record 
the claim as a fault claim based on the information it had. 
Claims handling 
Covea has accepted there was a delay in telling Mr J the claim was going to be 
recorded as him having been at fault. Whilst I appreciate it would have been 
upsetting for Mr J to hear this, ultimately, the delay didnt impact the outcome of the 
claim and how it was progressed. So, I consider the £70 compensation paid by 
Covea to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
Its normal practice for business to pay compensation to recognise its service has 
fallen short, and so, I dont consider Covea to have acted unreasonably by paying 
this directly to Mr Js account.  
Mr J has said Covea didnt attempt to contact the third party or their insurer to obtain 
a statement from the third party, but I disagree. The evidence Ive seen shows Covea 
made several attempts to get in touch with the third party, but it was to no avail. So, Im satisfied it took reasonable steps in respect of this.
Mr J has said Covea should be responsible for any penalties he incurred when 
returning his vehicle late to the finance company, but I dont agree. Covea offered to 
cash settle the claim on 4 March  around the time Mr J needed to return his car. 
From what Ive seen, up until this time, Covea progressed the claim in a timely 
manner and didnt cause any avoidable delays. If Mr J subsequently chose to return 
the car later and incur fees, I dont consider it reasonable to attribute this to Coveas 
handling of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman