DRN-3933487
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Santander UK Plc decided not to refund him after he was the victim of 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
Mr C has used a claims management company to bring his complaint. Ill refer to them as R. 
What happened
Mr C said a trusted friend hed known for a few years recommended a task-based job/ 
investment, where the consumer needed to complete tasks on different social media sites to 
make money. The premise was that Mr C needed to purchase packages which allowed him 
access to carry out tasks across several social media platforms, each task attracting a small 
payment. Mr C also explained he paid upfront fees to purchase an auto task where the 
tasks were automatically completed for him.
Mr C says his friend showed him the app and platform he was using, and the profits he had 
made. Mr C downloaded the app and between 22 January 2022 and 10 February 2022 he 
made three transfers totalling £8,200 to three different payees. Mr C told us the tasks took 
about five minutes a day to complete and he would make around £58 per day. Mr C 
explained, the more money you put in the higher the commission paid. Mr C had worked out 
by the end of February 2022 he would have made back the £8,200 he invested. 
Mr C saw payment for his work accumulating in an online account. Mr C says he didnt 
attempt to withdraw any funds. Mr C said the application crashed on 14 February 2022, and 
he was unable to get on to it. He then raised the scam claim with Santander the following 
day. 
Santander reviewed the complaint under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) 
and refunded Mr C 50% of his losses (£4,100) as it said it did not meet the standards set out 
for firms under the code. Specifically, it says it did not consider it provided the consumer with 
an effective warning when he set up the new payees and made the transfers. But it only 
refunded 50% of Mr Cs losses as it felt the consumer could have done more to prevent the 
scam. It said he had no reason to believe the investment was genuine and did not verify the 
company as being genuine. The company did not provide Mr C with anything to support they 
were investing his funds or that he would make money on the app.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but she didnt think Santander needed to 
refund any more of Mr Cs losses as she thought the premise for making money seemed 
unrealistic. She also noted that one of the payees was linked to cryptocurrency, even though 
this wasnt an investment into cryptocurrency. Another payee had no relevance to the 
investment at all. She considered this should have raised concerns, and been questioned by 
Mr C.
R did not agree with the investigators findings for the following reasons: 
The employer had a high functioning, quality app for the completion of the tasks  
which included a customer service live chat.
Many workers were able to withdraw funds which made it convincing.
Workers were added to a messaging group where they could see other workers 
withdrawing funds.
The employer said it was linked to a well-known image sharing social media site.
The employer shared its Companies House certificate within the messaging groups.
The premise for making money through social media and liking posts is a growing 
area for making money.
Mr C was referred by someone who has been successfully using the app.
All victims were required to make payments to a number of different payees. 
Santander did not provide any warnings which would have otherwise made a big 
difference to Mr Cs decision making. 
As the case has not been resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusions as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I have considered this complaint, based on the individual circumstances, 
evidence and factors presented to me by Mr C and R. 
Santander has signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to a 
scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be refunded. A firm might 
choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has:
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the 
person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom Mr C transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Santander has already refunded 50% of Mr Cs losses on the basis that it says it did not 
meet the standards expected of it under the CRM Code  that is - it considers it failed to 
provide an effective warning. So, I havent considered this aspect further.
 
The remaining loss turns on whether Mr C had a reasonable basis for belief.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief? 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has told us happened, and the reasons Santander 
says Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief for proceeding with the payments or that 
the person he was dealing with was legitimate. I broadly agree with the findings made by the investigator, Im not satisfied it was reasonable 
for Mr C to have made the payments he made. I say this because I think the premise on 
which this job based task is based seems too good to be true - specifically an app that does 
the work for you and one on which you can earn £58 after spending five minutes on the task. 
I havent been provided with evidence of what specifically enticed Mr C to spend money on 
this job opportunity or what made him think he was dealing with a legitimate company. Mr C 
said his friend showed him evidence to show the profits he made. But Mr C hasnt shared 
this with our service. Mr C says he also saw positive reviews  but when asked for 
information relating to that  he said these were via word of mouth. So, I cant be certain 
what Mr C relied on before deciding the make these payments. And I think this is important 
as this was what Mr C said was key in him deciding to pay money as part of this scam.
Mr C confirmed there was no employment contract terms and conditions and he hasnt 
shown that he carried out any independent research about the employer prior to investing 
reasonably large sums of money. The payees were all different and dont appear to have 
any links to the task-based employer. The largest payment went to a cryptocurrency 
provider, but the premise of the task doesnt appear to have had anything to do with 
cryptocurrency. I think all of this ought reasonably to have caused concern. 
Mr C hadnt received any payment or made any withdrawals at the point he went on to make 
the second or subsequent payments. 
The employers registration with Companies House wasnt filed until 10 February 2022, after 
Mr C had made all the payments. He cant reasonably have relied on this to believe the 
employer was legitimate as it simply didnt exist before then. I believe this is a document that 
has been shared as part of the wider group of those scammed, rather than something Mr C 
specifically saw, researched, or relied on, when deciding to make these payments.
Overall, I dont think Mr C ought to have had a reasonable basis for believing that the 
employer was genuine. 
There are other points provided by both Santander and Mr C that I havent specifically 
commented on but have considered. Ive commented on what I find to be most relevant and 
influential to the outcome. 
Considering all of the above and based on the individual elements of this complaint, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Santander to refund any more than it has already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman