DRN-4275556
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the standard of service and the settlement payment offered by
Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) following a claim she made under her
motor insurance policy.
Mrs J is represented by her son Mr J in her complaint. I will refer to Mrs J in my decision for
ease.
What happened
Mrs Js car was damaged in a collision with another vehicle in September 2022. She says
the other driver didnt stop. She contacted Advantage to make a claim and was told a
courtesy car would be provided. It wasnt. She says the time spent waiting for calls to be
answered was excessive. Delays also occurred when Advantage arranged collection of her
car, and in organising an inspection of the damage.
Mrs J says Advantage eventually told her the car was a total loss in mid-October 2022. She
says she was without a car from mid-September whilst this was being decided. Mrs J says
AXAs settlement offer was too low and it then increased it in stages, causing further delays.
She asked AXA for a fair settlement figure and compensation for its poor claim handling and
the distress and inconvenience this caused.
In its complaint response Advantage says a courtesy car isnt provided under Mrs Js policy
when a vehicle is deemed a total loss. It says the total loss decision was made on 28
September 2022, a week after the loss incident. It says it doesnt think its decision was
delayed.
Advantage says Mrs J was informed a hire car was being arranged. This wasnt provided for
under her policy but was offered outside of its usual process. It says this was because of Mrs
Js circumstances. However, it says a courtesy car wasnt actually supplied. This is because
prior to doing so it had concluded her car was a total loss. It paid £30 to Mrs J for the
inconvenience this caused.
Advantage says it offered a settlement payment based on the industry trade guides. It
discounted the valuation of the car for it being a previous total loss. This was a mistake as it
hadnt been a total loss previously. An increased settlement offer was then confirmed but
this delayed a payment being provided. Advantage says there was a delay in collecting Mrs
Js vehicle for inspection due to an error on its part. This delayed matters by around 13 days.
Because of these issues it says it offered a further £100 compensation.
Mrs J wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. He says Advantage is responsible for the delay in locating
and inspecting Mrs Js car. And the delay in confirming a settlement payment. He says the
initial total loss decision was based on photos of the damage. But the claim notes say an
engineer was needed to substantiate this decision. This wasnt done until around three
weeks after the loss incident.
Our investigator says that because of Advantages error with its initial settlement offer, and
the delay confirming a total loss decision, it shouldve provided a courtesy car for Mrs J at an
early stage. He says Advantage should pay Mrs J a further £450 compensation. In addition,
it should pay her £229 to reflect the higher average valuation from the trade guides our
investigator had obtained.
Advantage didnt agree to this outcome. It says its willing to pay £299 to reflect the higher
valuation. But it didnt agree that further compensation is warranted.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Js 
complaint in part. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ive arrived at a different
outcome to our investigator, so I want to allow both parties time to consider this and provide
any comments before I make a final decision. Let me explain why I think my decision is fair.
I can see from the information provided that Mrs J contacted Advantage to register a claim at
the time of the incident in September 2022. Ive thought about her comments that she
expected a courtesy car to be provided, and that this had been promised by Advantages
agent. Ive read her policy terms to understand the cover provided in these circumstances.
The terms say:
About the replacement car service
 You wont be eligible for a replacement car if your Car is stolen or considered to be a
Total Loss/write-off
 The replacement car service is only available if you are making a claim under Section 1
or 2 of the policy and the repair is being done by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
 The replacement car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
 The service is only available while your Car is being repaired.
From the claim records an entry dated 28 September 2022 says the vehicle is likely to be a
total loss. This decision was based on images of the damage. The records show a
settlement offer for £5,406.50 was communicated on 21 October 2022.
I acknowledge what Advantage says about mistakenly discounting the valuation due to the
car being a previous total loss. This is shown in the records as the settlement offer was
subsequently increased.
Having considered this point I think the terms are clear that a courtesy car isnt provided in
the case of a total loss decision. However, we expect Advantage to reach this decision
quickly so that Mrs J had the funds available to buy a replacement car. I dont think a
decision was made quickly here.
A record dated 30 September 2022 says an in-house engineer was to check if Mrs Js car is
repairable or a total loss. Advantage received a call from Mrs J on this date asking for an
update. The records say she was told the evaluation will take up to seven days. The
engineer report Advantage has provided shows the inspection didnt take place until 18October. This says the repairs are likely to cost in excess of £13,000. With the engineers
suggested valuation of the car at £7,618, which was based on an industry trade guide
valuation.
I think this reasonably supports the total loss decision. But this shouldve been confirmed
sooner.
Advantage acknowledges it provided inaccurate information to its agent which caused the
delayed inspection. It paid Mrs J £100 compensation for this. However, the first settlement
offer wasnt communicated to Mrs J until 21 October 2022. A payment was made on this
date. But this was inaccurate as it had been discounted in error. Advantage then took a
further five days for the valuation to be reviewed and an increased offer confirmed. Five days
after this the records show a further payment was made to reflect the difference between the
higher and lower valuations.
In its submission to our service Advantage says it expects claims like this to be settled within
14 days of the total loss decision. It says the decision was made on 28 September 2022 and
the first payment was made on 21 October. I note its view that this represents a nine-day
delay. Advantage says it has acknowledged this delay within the £100 compensation
payment it provided.
Having considered the evidence I dont think its clear that a final decision was made on 28
September 2022. The records show that an in-house engineers opinion was required to
confirm the car was beyond repair. The implication is that the final decision had yet to be
confirmed at this time. Due to delays on Advantages part, it then took a further three weeks
to make a settlement offer that wasnt communicated until 21 October.
Advantage initially agreed for a courtesy car to be provided. This was on account of Mrs Js
circumstances, given she is elderly and needed transport for her husbands hospital visits
and other daily tasks. This was cancelled when the initial total loss decision was made
based on photos of the damaged car. I dont think this was fair.
Advantage took a lot longer to confirm the car was a total loss than 28 September 2022 and
to then offer a settlement payment. It was distressing and inconvenient for Mrs J, and her
husband, to be without a car for this period. She explains how the area where she lives has
little public transport and taxis were too expensive. This meant missing hospital visits and
not being able to go to the shops to buy food.
In these circumstances I think its reasonable that Advantage shouldve provided a courtesy
car when it said it would. The request it sent to its agent for this to happen was made on 23
September 2022. Because of this I think its fair that it pays Mrs J for the loss of use of her
car, from this date until the first settlement payment was made on 21 October. Our service
considers £10 a day a fair amount to compensate for the loss of use of a vehicle. So,
Advantage should base its payment on this amount.
Ive also thought about Mrs Js concerns that the settlement payment Advantage provided
wasnt fair.
I understand Mrs J wants the best offer she can get following the total loss decision. Having
read her policy terms, the policy provides the market value in the case of a total loss. We
dont provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer is
reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations
from the motor trade guides.
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to bepersuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator obtained valuations from four trade guides that we use. I can see he used
the correct information for Mrs Js car. These gave an average valuation of £7,978. AXAs
final offer was for £7,749, using two of the trade guides. Valuing second-hand cars isnt an
exact science, so Id expect there to be a range of values. But the difference between the
two averages comes to £229. Given the value of Mrs Js car, this isnt an insignificant
amount, so I agree with our investigator that Advantage should pay the difference to Mrs J.
Advantage acknowledges the delay in collecting Mrs Js vehicle for inspection, the error it
made in the initial valuation, as well as the long call waiting times, and the disconnections
that occurred. In total it paid £130 compensation for these issues. Having considered the
evidence, I think its reasonable for Advantage to compensate Mrs J for these failings. But I
think the payment it made is fair.
In summary I dont think Advantage treated Mrs J fairly given the time it took to provide a fair
settlement payment. It should pay £10 per day for the loss of use of Mrs Js vehicle and pay
£229 to reflect the higher valuation. I dont think the standard of service provided was to a
good standard, but I think Advantage has been fair in the compensation payment it made to
acknowledge this.
I understand Mrs J has raised a complaint relating to the retention of the salvage of her car
and the total loss category. This is being dealt with separately. So, I cant comment on these
points in my decision here.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Advantage should:
pay Mrs J £10 per day for the loss of use of her car for the period from 23 September
2022 to 21 October; and
pay Mrs J £229 to reflect the higher average valuation for her car.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage says it wasnt sure if all communication between it and Mrs J had been shared 
with our service. It says it offered an additional £200 compensation as well as the £299 
increase in its total loss valuation. Advantage says this was on top of the compensation it 
had already paid for its delays. 
Mr J responded at length on behalf of Mrs J. Hes provided a copy of the welcome letter 
Advantage sent to his mother in June 2022. He points to the section of this letter that says a 
replacement car is included in the cover. He also says the courtesy car that was arranged 
was cancelled at the last minute without informing his parents. Mr J says this resulted in him 
questioning his mother as to whether she had misheard what was agreed. He says this 
caused Mrs J to become distressed. 
Mr J says £10 per day compensation doesnt cover the cost of hiring a replacement car. He 
says it would cost more like £60 per day, which wasnt affordable. 
Mr J says the mistake with the total loss deduction was explained but not the second low 
offer Advantage made. He comments that the business was acting deceitfully and was 
running out of excuses. In his response Mr J highlights the reliance his parents had on their car for everyday tasks 
and to maintain their independence. He says this claim has resulted in a horrendous 
experience, which is still not resolved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provision decision I said Advantage should pay Mrs J £10 per day from 23 September 
2022 up to 21 October. I think this is fair as it covers the period from when Advantage 
notified its agent to provide a courtesy car, up until the point the first settlement payment was 
provided. Mrs J had the opportunity to use this money to buy a replacement car at this 
juncture. 
I acknowledge Advantages offer to provides a payment for £200  but this is less than I 
thought fair to compensate Mrs J for the loss of use of her car. Because of this Im not 
persuaded to change my decision.  
Ive read the welcome letter Mr J provided. I dont dispute that it says a replacement car is 
included in the policy benefits. But it also says, For full details, see your car policy 
document. This is set out beneath the section highlighted. Mrs Js policy terms state the 
conditions under which a car will be provided. This excludes when the insured vehicle is a 
total loss. 
In these circumstances I think its fair that Advantage provides a loss of use payment to 
compensate Mrs J. This is because of the delays in dealing with her claim. But I think the 
payment I set out fairly acknowledges the inconvenience for the period Mrs J was without 
her car. This isnt intended to mirror the cost of a hire car, but to compensate for the 
inconvenience caused. 
I note Mr Js comment about Advantages settlement offers being too low. Having obtained 
valuations ourselves from the industry trade guides I dont think it paid enough. However, in 
providing an additional £299, as well as a total of £130 in compensation for its delays, Im 
satisfied this represents a fair outcome. 
Im sorry Mrs J has been distressed by Advantages handling of her claim. But I think the 
decision I have set out is fair. So, I wont be changing it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Mrs J £10 per day for the loss of use of her car for the period from 23 September 
2022 to 21 October; and
pay Mrs J £229 to reflect the higher average valuation for her car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman