DRN-3948011
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as LiveLend) are unfairly holding 
her responsible for a £12,000 loan she says she didnt apply for. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mrs S fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam with 
Traderschool (the scammer) in June 2022. As part of the fraud, she says the scammers 
impersonated her in order to apply for five different loans, including one for £12,000 with 
LiveLend in Mrs Ss name. 
The funds were paid into Mrs Ss account and then transferred on to the scammers, but 
Mrs S said she had no knowledge that the funds she was transferring had been received 
from a loan company. As she didnt apply for the loan, Mrs S complained that LiveLend 
should not hold her responsible to repay any part of the debt. 
LiveLend said that it would remove the loan from Mrs Ss credit file, and also that she would 
not be bound by the terms and conditions of the credit agreement. However, it said it would 
still be holding her liable to repay the debt given the funds were received into her account 
and transferred on by her. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Mrs S either knew or ought 
reasonably to have known that loans were being applied for and being paid into her account. 
So, although she didnt benefit from the money, he didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask LiveLend to write off the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
LiveLend says that as part of its application process, it asks knowledge-based 
authentication questions relating to the applicants credit file, which only Mrs S could 
have known. It said it would have asked five questions such as the month and year her 
mortgage was opened, or what her credit limit was on credit cards, and that all these 
questions would have to be answered correctly in order for the loan to be approved. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mrs S was asked questions by the scammer 
about other forms of credit she held in any of the WhatsApp conversations she has 
provided. She has also said that she did not provide any details about her mortgage, 
previous address, or credit cards, so its not clear how anyone else would have been 
able to answer these questions correctly. She said that the scammers did have access to 
her computer when using AnyDesk, which included her banking app. But this still 
wouldnt explain how a scammer would have been able to obtain information relating to 
her entire credit file. So there doesnt appear to be a plausible explanation for how the 
scammer would have known this information without Mrs S providing it.   
Mrs S says she was told that the money being paid into her account was money from the 
trading platform. She was told that she would have to transfer this money back as this 
was how the system works. However, simply being told that this is how the system 
works doesnt seem to be a plausible enough reason to readily accept why money would 
be put into her account for her to then transfer it straight back to the scammer.  
Mrs S would have seen that the money coming into her account had been credited by 
LiveLend Loan (as it appears on her statements), which would clearly indicate that the 
money was part of a loan. There was nothing to suggest that it had come from any 
Bitcoin trading platform, and given the lack of explanation given by the scammer, she 
could have also made some simple enquiries to find out whether it was a loan or not if 
she wasnt sure. 
Having considered all the circumstances, I think Mrs S ought reasonably to have known 
that the money she had received and was transferring to the scammer were the 
proceeds of a loan, which she would likely need to pay back given it had been paid into 
her account. I accept its possible she may not have known a loan was being taken out, 
and LiveLend has also acknowledged this by removing the loan from Mrs Ss credit file 
and saying she wouldnt be bound by the credit agreement. I also accept that she didnt 
benefit from the funds as they were transferred to the scammer. But given she ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the money she was transferring was part of a loan, I 
dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask LiveLend to write off the debt in 
these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman