DRN-3823653
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF)) has unfairly turned down her claims made under s.75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mrs J, alongside her husband, took out a timeshare from a supplier in 2010 (the 2010 
Agreement). To pay for it, Mrs J took a loan with BPF. Although the timeshare was in the 
names of Mr and Mrs J, as the loan was in Mrs Js name, only she is able to bring this 
complaint. The 2010 Agreement entitled Mr and Mrs J to a weeks worth of holiday 
accommodation for four people every year between 2011 and 2050.
In 2015, Mr and Mrs J took out a different timeshare from the same supplier (the 2015 
Agreement). This was for different accommodation, but at the same resort, and provided 
two weeks of annual accommodation for six people. Mr and Mrs J paid extra for this, as well 
as trading in three other timeshare memberships, including the timeshare obtained through 
the 2010 Agreement. 
In 2020, the company that ran the resort at which Mr and Mrs Js accommodation was 
located entered liquidation. Following that, Mr and Mrs J lost the right to stay in the resort 
and received nothing back from the timeshare supplier, despite having made the purchases 
in 2010 and 2015.
Under the CCA, lenders can sometimes be responsible for the acts and failures of suppliers 
of goods and services, if paid for using credit. So, using a professional representative (PR), 
Mrs J made a claim to BPF about the 2010 Agreement. At first, BPF offered Mrs J a refund 
of some of what shed paid toward her loan, as well as cancelling any outstanding balance. 
However, it then withdrew that offer as it said it had been made in error. BPF said it should 
have checked whether the 2010 Agreement was still in operation at the time of the suppliers 
insolvency, before it made an offer. Having checked, BPF realised the 2010 Agreement was 
traded in for the 2015 Agreement, so it had ended before the breach of contract. And as the 
2010 BPF loan hadnt directly financed the 2015 Agreement, it said it wasnt reasonable to 
pay anything in relation to the 2010 Agreement when the company went into liquidation. But 
BPF offered £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by making, and then 
withdrawing, the offer.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but didnt think BPF needed to do 
anything further in respect of the CCA claims. He noted that although the paperwork 
provided by PR said a claim for misrepresentation had been made, he couldnt see what the 
alleged misrepresentations were. But, in any event, such a claim had been made too late. 
He also said he didnt think BPF was liable for the breach of contract claim, as the 2010 loan 
wasnt used to fund the 2015 Agreement. But he thought BPFs offer of £300 was fair.
PR responded to our investigators view. It confirmed that it wasnt making a 
misrepresentation claim on Mrs Js behalf, instead the only claim it had made was a breach 
of contract claim due to the timeshare resorts insolvency. PR argued that the 2010 and 
2015 Agreements were linked as the 2010 Agreement was used as part payment for the 
2015 Agreement. To illustrate this, PR used an analogy to the purchase of land where 
multiple sales between the same purchaser and seller can be treated as one bargain for tax 
purposes. In Mrs Cs case, it was argued that there was a timeshare scheme involving 
upgrades, so the 2010 Agreement didnt end, rather it was upgraded into the 2015 
Agreement.
PR also said that the 2015 Agreement was made using a separate BPF loan and it had 
made an offer to Mrs C in relation to the 2015 Agreement. So PR argued that BPF should be 
responsible for accounting for the full purchase price of both the 2010 and the 2015 
Agreements.
Our investigator looked at matters again and said he would only deal with the breach of 
contract claim. He clarified that this complaint dealt with the 2010 Agreement only and he 
thought the two purchases were for individual contracts, financed separately. He said that he 
wasnt able to say whether any offer made in respect of the 2015 Agreement was fair as that 
didnt form part of this complaint.
PR responded, setting out the relevant law and some more arguments. It said that the 2010 
Agreement was not extinguished in 2015, rather it continued its existence in the upgrade. It 
was effectively the same membership, but improved. Finally, PR said that the entity that 
brokered the loan in 2010 was not properly authorised to broker loans.
As the parties didnt agree with our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for a 
final decision. When arranging this, our investigator explained that the complaint that the 
broker wasnt authorised was a new complaint, so Mrs J needed to make this in the first 
instance to BPF and, if she wasnt happy with BPFs answer, a complaint could be referred 
to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator for the same reasons.
Before I consider the claim made for a breach of contract, I note that PR has confirmed that 
its not asking for me to determine any complaint that BPF turned down a claim made by 
Mrs J that it was jointly responsible for the timeshare suppliers misrepresentations. Given 
that, I will make no further comment on any potential claim Mrs J may have.
I also agree with our investigator that the allegation that the timeshare supplier didnt have 
the right authority to broker loans is a new and separate complaint to that which was referred 
to our service. The complaint referred was that BPF unfairly turned down a claim under s.75 
CCA, but the new complaint was that the loan itself was improperly arranged. So Mrs J 
needs to raise any concerns she has with BPF and, if not satisfied with its response, she can 
refer a complaint to our service. But as that hasnt been done, I wont comment on that issue 
further.
PR has said it wished to make a claim for Mrs J under s.75 CCA. That provision reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So, a creditor can be jointly liable for a suppliers breach of contract, if the creditor financed 
the transaction in question. So it is crucial here to determine what agreement BPF financed 
and whether the financed agreement was breached by the suppliers insolvency.
Its not in dispute that BPF financed the 2010 Agreement, nor do I think its in dispute Mrs J 
could make a claim under s.75 CCA should the supplier have breached the terms of the 
timeshare agreement purchased in 2010. But our investigator thought that the 2010 
Agreement was superseded by the 2015 Agreement and, therefore, any breach that 
happened when the supplier became insolvent wasnt a breach of an agreement funded by 
the 2010 BPF loan. Having considered everything, I agree.
In 2010, Mr and Mrs J took out a timeshare membership that entitled them to a specific type 
of accommodation (Island membership with accommodation for four people). But in 2015, 
they agreed to take out a different type of membership (two Ocean apartments sleeping six 
people). Once they had completed the 2015 purchase, they were no longer entitled to any of 
the rights and benefits under the 2010 Agreement  all of their contractual rights and 
obligations flowed from the new, 2015 Agreement. I think the two agreements were separate 
and for different things as described in the contracts. I cant see that the 2015 Agreement 
was an add on to the 2010 Agreement, or that any of the earlier contractual rights 
remained. Instead, the 2015 Agreement replaced the 2010 Agreement in totality.
Further, I dont think that just because Mr and Mrs J paid for the 2015 Agreement by giving 
up their rights under the 2010 Agreement, the two agreements are linked such that BPF 
needed to remedy the later breach by doing anything about the 2010 loan. The contract that 
was breached was the 2015 Agreement and that was not a transaction financed by a loan 
taken out five years earlier. In this decision, the transaction financed by BPF that Im dealing 
with was Mr and Mrs J taking out the 2010 Agreement and, as that ended in 2015, BPF cant 
be jointly liable for the alleged breach of contract as the 2010 Agreement couldnt have been 
breached in the way alleged. If BPF financed the 2015 Agreement, its possible it is jointly 
liable for a breach of that agreement, but that falls outside the scope of this decision.
Finally, BPF has offered £300 to Mrs J to apologise for the distress caused by making and 
then withdrawing an offer whilst dealing with her claim. I understand this will have been 
distressing for Mrs J, but based on what Ive seen, I think this offer is fair. 
I understand that Mrs J has not yet accepted this offer, so I will direct BPF to pay £300 if she 
accepts this decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mrs J £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman