DRN-3823004
The complaint
Mr D and Ms H are unhappy with QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) decision to decline a claim made 
under their buildings insurance policy.
Any references to QIC include its agents. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms H bought their property in February 2022. A few months after they moved in, 
they said the property started showing signs of cracking, so they made a claim to QIC. 
QIC instructed a surveyor. They noted there was damage behind built in wardrobes in one of 
the bedrooms, cracking to the plaster in several other rooms inside the property and 
cracking to the external brickwork. QIC declined Mr D and Ms Hs claim, saying the damage 
appeared to in place before the policy began. Unhappy with the response from QIC, Mr D 
and Ms H complained.
In September 2022, QIC issued its final response. Ms H was unhappy the response and 
asked QIC to send a second surveyor. QIC said the second surveyor agreed the property 
was suffering from progressive structural movement. It referred to the exclusion clause of the 
policy which said it wouldnt be liable for damage that occurred before the policy began. 
Unhappy, Mr D and Ms H referred their complaint to this Service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who said as the second surveyors report identified the property was still 
moving, QIC should carry out some investigations to determine what damage occurred since 
the policy started. QIC didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for the same reasons. 
There isnt any dispute both reports instructed by QIC indicate signs of movement that likely 
pre-dated the start of the policy. And the cracking is also noted in the mortgage surveyors 
report. 
The issue for me to decide is whether I consider QIC acted fairly in declining the claim on the 
basis it believed all the damage occurred before the start of this policy. I dont think it did. 
Its the comments of the mortgage surveyor which mean QIC feel they should be able to rely 
on the exclusion for pre-existing damage. However, in considering the information contained 
in that report, it doesnt make a finding on whether the movement was ongoing or 
progressive. I dont dispute there is historic damage, but the key issue is whether the 
property is still moving and has moved since the policy began.
Mr D and Ms H dont dispute there were signs of cracking before they purchased the 
property. They say they key thing that alerted them to the potential for current movement 
was the progression of the cracks as the summer of 2022 progressed, as well as when they 
removed the fitted wardrobes in one of the bedrooms. They say when they noticed the 
cracks getting worse and made a claim. I dont agree Mr D and Ms H allowed the property to 
deteriorate before making a claim. In considering the evidence, Im persuaded by their 
account they noticed the cracking after the wardrobes had been removed and saw more 
cracks appear and worsen through the summer. I dont consider QIC is acting fairly in 
concluding they breached policy terms about not taking care of property. 
I note the second report instructed by QIC acknowledges the cracking is longstanding. It also 
clearly states the structural movement is progressive and there is an active case of 
subsidence. Mr D and Ms Hs property is still moving, and the report findings indicate 
damage has occurred since their policy began in March 2022.  It does not conclude the 
movement was historic and stopped before the policy began. Instead, it seems to be clearly 
set out by the surveyor there is active movement that occurred since the policy began. 
On balance, I find myself more persuaded by the findings in the second surveyor report from 
September 2022. This agrees the damage is longstanding, but also contains what I consider 
to be the key conclusion the movement is progressive. I dont consider QIC acted fairly in 
declining Mr D and Ms Hs claim on the basis all the damage occurred before the policy 
began.
To put things right, QIC should reconsider the subsidence claim. It should do this by carrying 
out site investigations to determine the cause of the movement and then take action to 
stabilise Mr D and Ms Hs property and deal with any new damage. If any repairs to the old 
damage needs to be carried out to provide a lasting and effective repair, then this should 
also be dealt with under this claim.
If QIC can clearly show that there are areas of pre-inception damage which dont
need to be repaired in order to deliver a lasting and effective repair to the claim related
damage, then these areas of pre-existing damage can be excluded from the repairs.
Mr D and Ms H have told us about the stress this matter has caused them. Theyve said the 
uncertainty around their home, and the decline of their claim, has caused them significant 
worry and impacted Ms Hs mental health. For this reason, Im also requiring QIC to pay 
£200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect declinature of 
their claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
carry out the investigation outlined above and carry out any subsequent repairs 
identified from those investigations. 
I also require it to pay £200 compensation to Mr D and Ms H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman