The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service provided by Skrill Limited when he added money to his 
Skrill electronic money account, and then tried to withdraw it.
What happened
Mr D has an electronic money account with Skrill. He added US$80 to his account using a 
MasterCard and wanted to use these funds to pay a merchant. But he couldnt use the funds 
to pay the merchant, so he transferred these to his bank account. Skrill charged him a fee for 
this withdrawal, but his bank rejected the transaction because it was in Euros, and the bank 
account was in US Dollars.
Mr D has complained that Skrill didnt make it clear that he cant upload money from a 
MasterCard to his account, then use this money to pay a merchant. Hes also unhappy that 
Skrill charged a withdrawal fee, when they said there wouldnt be any fees, and that the 
withdrawn funds were sent in Euros.
Our investigator found that Skrill had acted reasonably. He felt theyd made it clear that any 
funds deposited from a MasterCard couldnt be used to pay merchants. He also felt that 
Skrills fees were made clear so they were able to charge for Mr D withdrawing funds from 
his card; and that they dont carry out withdrawals in US Dollars. Because of this he didnt 
think Skrill needed to do anything.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. Hes said that theres nothing in Skrills Terms of Use 
that say money deposited with MasterCard cant be used to pay a merchant, and that he 
wasnt told about this until after he deposited the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Skrill have said that Mastercard uploaded balances cannot be used for transfers to 
merchants and can only be withdrawn to bank accounts [or] sent to other end users. 
Theyve also said that Mr D wouldve had a warning message telling him this when he 
uploaded his funds. But Mr D says there was no warning, and he wouldnt have gone ahead 
if there was. He also says that Skrills terms dont say this is the case.
Ive seen Skrills Terms of Use and I agree they dont say that funds deposited from a 
MasterCard cant be used to pay merchants. But Ive seen a copy of the warning message 
that appears when depositing funds. This says funds deposited with Mastercard cannot be 
DRN-1216744used to pay merchants directly from your wallet and explains that the Skrill payment option 
on the merchants website would have to be used instead.
I appreciate that Mr D says he didnt see this message when he uploaded funds, but I 
havent seen anything to show me that the message wasnt there. So I agree with the 
investigator that Skrill had made this information available to Mr D when he uploaded the 
funds, and he shouldve been reasonably aware of the limitations.
Skrill have also explained they charged a flat fee of €5.50 for a withdrawal to a bank 
account. However, Mr D has sent in a screenshot of Skrills website which says Transfer 
money for free. No transfer fee when you send money directly to a bank account. Ive 
looked at this screenshot and seen that Skrills website also has the same message. But this 
message refers to Skrills money transfer service, not their electronic money accounts.
Under the heading Withdrawing funds, Skrills Terms of Use say withdrawals are subject to 
fees including currency conversion fees (if applicable). Under the heading Your Skrill 
account the terms also say there is no minimum withdrawal amount but the funds on your 
Skrill account must be sufficient to cover any applicable withdrawal fee. So I think that Skrill 
made it clear to Mr D that there were charges for making withdrawals from his account.
Mr D requested a withdrawal of the funds in his account. Although hed added US Dollars to 
his account, Skrill made the withdrawal in Euros. Skrill said that, because of Mr Ds country 
of residence, according to their procedural rules the withdrawal was made in Euros. They 
also said that there was a currency exchange fee because of this. The receiving bank 
rejected the withdrawal because the money was sent in Euros and not US Dollars. Mr D said 
theres nothing in the Terms of Use that says Skrill dont support withdrawals in US Dollars.
I agree that the Terms of Use dont say that Skrill dont support withdrawals in US Dollars. 
But the Frequently Asked Questions in the Service section of their website does have the 
question Can I withdraw US Dollars to my bank account. In answering this question Skrill 
say we do not carry out bank transfer withdrawals in USD. The currency in which we will 
process your withdrawal will be shown during the submission of your request.
Ive seen a copy of the message displayed by Skrill when an international withdrawal in US 
Dollars is requested. This says the transaction will be processed in EUR and explains there 
is a 3.99% currency exchange fee. So I cant say that Skrill did anything wrong by 
processing the withdrawal in Euros and not US Dollars.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Skrill Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman