DRN-3636521
The complaint
Mr T claims that Nationwide Building Society failed to protect him from losing money to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I dont intend to detail them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision  our rules allow me to do so. 
In January 2021, Mr T made a series of payments to what he thought was a genuine online 
investment scheme, amounting to around £15,000. He says this company, EverFX, used 
untoward techniques that ultimately caused him to lose all that he paid in. Mr T believes that 
Nationwide ought to have identified the risk of fraud that these payments presented and 
taken steps to protect him. Nationwide refuted the complaint, on the grounds that EverFX 
was a registered merchant permitted to provide UK consumers with investment services 
within the Contracts for Differences (CFD) investment market. 
Because Mr T remained unhappy, he brought the matter to our service. Upon reviewing all of 
the available evidence  most notably the regulatory status of EverFX at the time of the 
payments  one of our investigators didnt uphold it. She held that Nationwide was not liable 
for failing to detect and act on possible fraud considering this firm was not seen to be 
fraudulent at the material time. Whats more, Nationwide took reasonable steps to recover 
Mr Ts funds, under whats known as the chargeback scheme. 
Mr T disagrees with this assessment, citing that he was in fact scammed and Nationwide 
ought to have prevented this. Consequently, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Mr T has at times changed his version of what happened. I cannot ignore that 
parts of his submission are self-contradictory regarding how the payments towards EverFX 
came about. In fairness, I must follow the evidence to decide whats more likely that not to 
have occurred. And having done so, Im satisfied Mr T entered into an agreement with 
EverFX on the condition that he would trade money invested to try and make profit. 
Accordingly, Ive reached my decision on the basis that these payments were authorised by 
Mr T, with the intention of him seeing a return on the money he put into EverFXs platform. 
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams.
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Nationwide has a 
regulatory obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial 
crime.
Still, this must be balanced with Nationwides other duties. Theres a provision that delaying 
an authorised payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the 
ones that Mr T made to EverFX. Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not necessarily constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances 
such as these, there is a general prohibition that Nationwide should not be providing 
investment advice pertaining to where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) 
their money.
In other words, its possible that Nationwide could have warned Mr T about the dangers of 
falling victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. EverFX) was a fraudster; meaning that 
Nationwide could have delayed the payments while concerns about EverFX were discussed 
with Mr T. Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that EverFX was operating a scam when 
these payments were made in January 2021 in order to expect Nationwide to have done 
anything further here.
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe there were no
such warnings about EverFX at the time these payments were made in 2021. Rather, the 
evidence demonstrates that EverFx is a trading name for ICC Intercertus Capital Ltd, which 
is regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CYSEC), and held 
temporary permission with the FCA to conduct regulated activities when these transactions 
were made. 
The FCA did release a supervisory notice in May 2021 about ICC Intercertus Capital Ltd. 
This explained that the FCA had stopped EverFX (and the other companies within that 
group) offering CFDs to UK customers. Whilst I accept this demonstrates the FCA had 
concerns about EverFXs practices, the notice says the reasons behind imposing the 
restrictions came as a consequence of the FCA disproving of some of the misleading 
practices carried out by EverFX. Including, failing to adequately explain the high risks 
involved in CFD trading. The FCA did not, however, stipulate that EverFX was fraudulent. 
So, its not necessarily the case that EverFX was operating a scam at the time Mr T made 
these payments. I have to bear in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as 
CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be 
unfair. Especially, given that a high percentage of retail investor accounts lose money when 
trading CFDs. While the ways and means of EverFX may have been unreasonable or even 
unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean it amounted to the high legal threshold or burden 
of proof for fraud. To that end, Im not satisfied EverFX was fraudulent or operating a scam 
in January 2021. Ive gone on to consider Mr Ts claim that the firm he paid was a fraudulent clone of EverFX. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, Mr T has not provided any compelling evidence which 
shows that his money went to a company other than the CYSEC regulated CFD merchant 
that Ive described above. I acknowledge an email he received from the FCA regarding the 
possibility of a cloned entity being involved  but this is not in itself sufficient to evidence that 
thats where Mr Ts money ended up. 
When reaching this conclusion, Ive borne in mind that the FCAs response was based on 
the information Mr T provided to it  and on the face of things, it was possible that EverFX 
was cloned in some way. Be that as it may, the technical evidence submitted by both 
Nationwide and Mr T himself strongly indicates otherwise. Overall, I am not persuaded that 
Mr T paid any entity falsely impersonating EverFX. 
As Ive concluded that the payments Mr T made went to EverFX and this firm was not 
fraudulent in January 2021, Nationwides duty to intervene wasnt engaged. There was the 
inevitable risk of Mr Ts investments returning a loss, based on market performance. But as 
Ive explained, Nationwide isnt required to protect its consumers from the risk of financial 
loss due to investment choices, or bad bargains. Therefore, Nationwide did not act unfairly 
by not undertaking further counter measures. 
Finally, when Mr T raised this dispute with Nationwide, it took steps to attempt a recovery of 
the payments made. Chargeback has stringent rights and rules that need to be satisfied for a 
successful claim. On account of what Mr T has submitted, I am not convinced he had the 
requisite evidence to take the chargeback claim(s) further and to enact a refund. As I see it, 
Nationwide took reasonable steps to correctly follow the chargeback procedure  but it did 
not have what was necessary to get Mr Ts money back. 
In conclusion, I cannot safely hold Nationwide liable for these payments, or Mr Ts loss that 
ensued. It follows that I do not require Nationwide to do anything beyond what it has already 
for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman