DRN-4450367
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined his claim for damage caused by
an infestation of mice, under his home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P says he noticed a damp patch on his kitchen ceiling. Upon investigation he found
several leaks due to rodents chewing through pipework connecting his heating and hot water
system. He found a further leak in his bathroom, again due to the rodents. Mr P made a
claim to AXA, which it declined.
AXA told Mr P he has no cover under his policy for this loss. It says cover is provided under
its full accidental damage insurance. But Mr P didnt have this cover, so AXA declined to
pay for the repairs.
Mr P says AXAs terms arent clear. He says accidental damage is defined as unforeseen
damage caused by him or his guests. Not damage caused by rodents. He says damage
caused by rodents should reasonably be expected to be covered under a standard buildings
insurance policy. Because he disagreed with AXA Mr P referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says cover for Mr Ps loss is provided under
AXAs full accidental damage cover. Mr P didnt have this cover, so AXA fairly declined his
claim. Our investigator says it was Mr Ps responsibility to read his policy terms and
conditions to ensure this met with his requirements.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to consider the
matter.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read Mr Ps policy terms and conditions to understand the cover he had in place. Under
the heading, Getting Started: Conditions and Limitations That Apply to Your Policy the
terms say:
What is not covered
Your policy will not cover loss, damage, liability, costs or expenses for claims in the following
circumstances:
Damage caused by infestation (other than vermin), corrosion, damp, wet or dry rot or
mould.
The definitions section defines vermin as:
Rats, mice, squirrels, wasps or hornets.
Damage caused by infestation is excluded, but vermin, as a cause of damage, is
specifically removed from this exclusion. I think a reasonable person would understand from
this, that damage caused by vermin is covered by the policy. If AXA didnt intend for damage
caused by vermin to be covered under Mr Ps policy, it didnt make this clear.
Theres no reference to vermin in the next section headed Buildings Cover where the
insured causes are set out. This section describes the, Trace and access cover included in
the event of an escape of water. Mr P says this is what caused much of the damage to his
home. A further list of, What is not covered is set out in this section. It says:
For any claim caused by escape of water, no cover is provided for:
 Water escaping from anything other than fixed indoor; pipes, boilers, water tanks or
toilets (i.e. these are covered);
 Water escaping from flexible hoses or attachments to kitchen appliances, or the
appliances themselves (i.e. these arent covered);
 Damage caused by a lack or failure of sealant or grout;
 Damage to boilers, where the water has escaped internally within the boiler;
 Any amount over £2,000 per claim for metered water bills where Weve agreed to pay a
claim.
There is no reference to vermin, as an exclusion in the buildings cover section.
The next section of the policy booklet is headed, Basic Accidental Damage to Buildings.
This says, What is not covered. Followed by, Damage caused by Pets, animals, insects or
Vermin.
This is followed by a section that is headed, Full Accidental Damage to Buildings. This
says, Full Accidental Damage provides a comprehensive level of cover and is designed to
protect your Home or Outbuildings for Accidental Damage caused by You, Your guests or
Vermin.
Based on this, cover is provided for damage caused by vermin under the full accidental
damage option but not the basic cover.
I note Mr Ps comments that he chose not to pay for accidental damage cover. He says this
isnt something he includes when he arranges his home buildings insurance in order to
reduce the cost. Mr P says he didnt read the accidental damage sections as he didnt want
this cover. Ive also considered his comments that accidental damage isnt something the
average person would associate with damage caused by vermin. He says this cover would
be expected as standard under the buildings policy.
We expect AXAs policy terms and conditions to clearly describe the cover provided
including optional extras. I dont agree with Mr P that its unreasonable for AXA to include
vermin cover under accidental damage. But as discussed, I dont think AXAs terms are clear
that vermin damage is excluded under the main buildings insurance policy. I think the
opposite is implied.If there is doubt about the meaning of a policy term, the interpretation most favourable to the
consumer should be adopted, in accordance with the common law principle of contra
proferentem. In this case Mr P understood his main buildings policy covered damage
caused by vermin. I think this was a reasonable assumption based on what the policy terms
and conditions say. Its not for Mr P to interpret what AXA meant. The policy terms should be
clear and unambiguous. I dont think they were, which means I dont think its fair that AXA
declined Mr Ps claim.
Having considered all of this I dont think AXA treated Mr P fairly when declining his claim for
the reasons it gave. My intention is to direct it to pay his claim in line with his policy terms
and conditions, accepting cover is in place for damage caused by vermin. Mr P has paid for
the damages to be repaired. On provision of the reasonable costs Mr P paid for the repairs,
AXA can provide a refund plus 8% simple interest, calculated from the date he made the
payment until this is refunded to him.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint and AXA should:
refund Mr P on receipt of proof of paying reasonable repair costs for the damage
incurred; and
pay 8% simple interest* on the repair cost from the date this was paid until it is
refunded.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Both Mr P and AXA responded to say they accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
AXA Insurance UK Plc should:
refund Mr P on receipt of proof of paying reasonable repair costs for the damage
incurred; and
pay 8% simple interest* on the repair cost from the date this was paid until it is
refunded.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman