DRN-2779084
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National Building 
Society) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr H in 1991 in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided Mr H with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Hs needs?
- Did Santander give Mr H the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy? If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to 
consider whether Mr H is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done 
something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any 
problems with the sale? 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr H says he was put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that he wasnt given a proper 
choice. He says Santander told him he had to buy the policy to get the mortgage he wanted. 
Mr H says he didnt need the policy because he had other means of covering the mortgage 
repayments if he couldnt work. 
Ive noted everything Mr H said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Mr H and Santander when the policy was sold. 
I realise Mr H considers Santander should be able to provide evidence of the discussions 
that took place and that the policy was presented as optional. But Santander hasnt been 
able to provide much documentation from the time of the sale, which isnt surprising given 
that these events happened many years ago. And its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
In the absence of anything else to support what Mr H has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Santander didnt make him aware that the PPI was optional.
Santander accepts that it advised Mr H to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr H was eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions. 
- Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because 
of sickness or accident, and that the likelihood of him being out of work was low. But 
the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs employer sick pay, and would have 
allowed him to use those benefits to cover other expenses. 
I also think the policy wouldve been useful to him if hed lost his job  even though I 
appreciate why Mr H might consider this was unlikely to happen. 
Overall, I think Mr H would have had some use for the policy, despite his existing 
arrangements. 
- Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr H before he 
agreed to buy it. But Mr H took out the policy knowing he would have to pay 
something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he 
would still have taken out the policy.
Ive noted what Mr H has said about Santanders handling of his complaint, and can 
understand his frustration with the time it took to progress the matter. But these issues dont 
change my overall conclusions about the complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman