DRN-4016172
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) declined her claim under 
her buildings insurance for an escape of water.
What happened
Miss R noticed water dripping through her kitchen ceiling, which she believed was caused by 
a leak from her shower in the bathroom above. On advice from AIL, she arranged for leak 
detection using a company Ill refer to as T.
T issued a report which explained the tests it had carried out and indicated the leak was 
likely from the shower waste. Miss R asked AIL to cover the cost of her claim, so it arranged 
for its own loss adjuster, who Ill call B, to attend. 
B said there was no evidence of an insured cause, and the water damage was due to failed 
sealant and grout. AIL declined Miss Rs claim under the policy exclusions for water damage 
resulting from failed sealant and for gradually occurring damage.
Miss R complained to AIL and raised her claim again. She provided a second leak report 
prepared by T which stated again that the leak was from the shower waste. 
AIL again arranged for B to attend. B found no evidence of a leak and thought that the newly 
wet floor had been staged. AIL declined the claim again because there was no insurable 
cause.
Miss R complained to AIL about its decision to decline her claim. She also complained about 
the delays in handling her claim and its lack of communication. AIL agreed shed 
experienced some poor service and offered £100 by way of apology. But it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim, so Miss R brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Rs complaint about the claim handling. While AIL had made an 
offer in recognition of its standard of service, he didnt think it was enough. Our investigator 
proposed increasing the compensation from £100 to £200. But our investigator didnt think 
AIL had unfairly declined the claim, so he didnt uphold this part of Miss Rs complaint.
Miss R didnt agree and remained of the opinion that AIL should accept her claim. She said 
AIL had never mentioned to her anything about the wet floor being staged, and she wanted 
AIL to pay her for the cost of trace and access which it had told her to have done.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Miss Rs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that AIL failed to respond to Miss R on multiple 
occasions, or that it caused avoidable delays. While Miss R didnt think compensation of 
£200 was fair, it seems thats because she linked it to the cost of the work she needed to 
have done. 
But I must point out that this sum is only in recognition of those failures  it isnt intended to 
cover any part of the leak detection or repair costs. So, having looked at the service failures, 
£200 appears fair and reasonable and I dont plan to ask AIL to increase the compensation 
beyond this.
Turning now to the claim itself, based on the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded 
that AIL has declined Miss Rs claim fairly. I asked AIL to provide clarification of some 
comments in its account notes which caused me to question the findings of its contractor. I 
also asked for a copy of both reports prepared by its contractor, B. AIL didnt provide the 
information I asked for. 
So, for the following reasons, Im minded to uphold Miss Rs complaint about AILs decision 
to decline her claim:
Ts first report detailed the tests undertaken to trace the leak and concluded that the 
leak was most likely from the shower waste. This supports her claim. 
T didnt comment on any problems with the sealant but recommended re-sealing the 
valves and whole shower, then monitoring for a leak. AILs notes state the valve 
would be covered under the policy.
In Ts second report, it detailed the tests undertaken and identified a leak from the 
shower waste. T carried out the repair. Based on the evidence of tests carried out, I 
find this report persuasive.
After Bs first visit, it declined the claim stating that the cause given by T  sealant 
and grout failure  wasn't covered under the policy. But I havent seen any evidence 
that T commented on the condition of the sealant.
At its second visit, B reported that the wet area under the shower was staged, and 
the waste had been loosened. But Bs visit was after Miss R had the waste repaired 
by T, and she explained that shed had another small leak which wasn't part of her 
claim.
B also reported that sealant had been applied over old sealant. Thats in keeping with 
the recommendation T made, so I dont find that to be clear evidence of a repair of 
failed sealant.
AIL only provided a copy of one report despite B making two visits. 
Overall, I note that Miss Rs contractor consistently reported that the leak was from the 
shower waste, while AILs contractor failed to evidence the cause and incorrectly cited the 
cause reported by T.
Further to this, Ive seen considerable doubt about the cause of the leak reflected in AILs 
notes. Its agents recorded that Bs report wasn't consistent and challenged its allegation that 
T found the leak to be caused by failed sealant.
Indeed, AIL said there was no reference to sealant at all in Ts report.
Given that AIL itself was unable to place reliance on Bs report of the leak, and the evidence 
overall supports Miss Rs claim that the leak was from her shower waste, I dont think AIL 
fairly declined her claim for the reason it gave.
I said I was intending to require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:settle Miss Rs claim for the damage caused by the escape of water in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, 
consider Miss Rs trace and access costs in line with the policy, and
pay £200 compensation for the repeated failure to respond to Miss R and for the 
avoidable delays it caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Miss R accepted my provisional decision. She also provided more photos of the damage in 
her home caused by the escape of water, and information about the cost of repairs.
AIL sent a copy of the missing report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Miss R provided more information for me to consider which simply supported her complaint. 
It didnt warrant a change to the outcome.
AIL sent in the missing report, completed by B on its first visit to Miss Rs home. The report 
and supporting photos confirm that B agreed thered been an escape of water (EOW). 
Crucially, I note the following comment in the report:
Damage is consistent with EOW and the claim has been accepted.
Further into the report, B said providing Miss R can supply evidence from the contractor who 
identified the cause of damage, the claim should be settled according to Bs scope of works. 
AIL was unable to find where Bs reference of failed sealant came from, which is what it 
relied on to decline Miss Rs claim. 
In light of the report not previously available to me, Im satisfied that it supports my findings 
in the provisional decision. Therefore, I see no reason to make any changes.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Rs 
complaint and Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
settle Miss Rs claim for the damage caused by the escape of water in line with the 
policy terms and conditions; 
consider Miss Rs trace and access costs in line with the policy, and
pay £200 compensation for the repeated failure to respond to Miss R and for the 
avoidable delays it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman