DRN-3934485
The complaint
Miss N, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to her 
when she could not afford it. 
What happened
Miss N took one loan for £3,100 in May 2019 to be repaid over 36 months at £272.33 each 
month. The reason for the loan was for debt consolidation.
After Miss N had complained to Everyday Lending it issued its final response letter (FRL) in 
which it said that it had carried out the right checks and it did not uphold her complaint.
Miss Ns representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators thought that Everyday Lending should put things right for Miss N. 
Miss N agreed and Everyday Lending has acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators view 
but has not responded in detail. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss N would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss N would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ns ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss N undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ns complaint.
Everyday Lending asked Miss N about her income and expenses. Miss N told it that her net 
monthly income was £1,527. It verified that with two payslip copies for April and May 2019. 
One was for a figure over £2,000 and the other was for £919 as net pay. So, it appears to 
have averaged out those figures to proceed with her income as being around £1,527. And 
this demonstrates that the nature of Miss Ns job led to a variable salary amount each month 
which is not a good foundation for a person to take a loan costing £272 a month for three 
years.  
Miss N informed it of her expenses (including her other credit commitments) which Everyday 
Lending increased using statistical data. It was an increased figure of £838 a month which it 
had calculated to include £200 a month rent to her parents with whom she was living, plus 
about £188 for credit commitments and around £450 for other expenses. 
Everyday Lending carried out a credit search. That showed Miss N had five payday loan 
accounts outstanding, two of which had been taken in April 2019  just the month before she 
had approached it for this loan. She had other smaller credit accounts as well. 
I think Everyday Lendings checks were proportionate but it didnt react appropriately to the 
information it received. I say that because five pay day loans is excessive and demonstrates 
that before Miss N had approached Everyday Lending she had trouble arranging finance and 
keeping up with her outgoings. 
Added to which, the loan was meant to consolidate the other debts but it did not pay these 
off for her but paid the full £3,100 into her account  I have seen the entry of the credit into 
her bank account. That meant that it was not lending to her safe in the knowledge that its 
capital was going to alleviate her monthly debt commitment costs. And meant that Miss N 
had her existing debt costs plus the Everyday Lendings new costs as well. So, I dont think Everyday Lending made a fair lending decision here to provide the loan to 
her. 
Putting things right
I think Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Miss N as payments towards the capital sum of £3,100;
if Miss N has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with interest* of 8% simple a year from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Miss N;
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ns complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman