DRN-2030393
complaint
Ms N says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her two payment protection 
policies (MPPI) in May 1995 and May 1999. Both policies were intended to protect her 
mortgage repayments. 
The policy sold in 1995 cost Ms N £17.25 a month and was set up to provide a benefit of 
£250. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Ms N was unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
In 1999 Ms N was sold another MPPI policy. This policy cost £15.15 a month and it provided 
a total benefit of £288.73. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if Ms N was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ns complaint should be upheld. Ms N disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me  an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns case.
Having done this, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint about either sale. Ill explain why.
1995 sale
Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got Ms Ns agreement to take it out. Ms N says she has no recollection of MPPI 
being sold to her. She says it was never explained and she did not need it.
The policy seems to have been arranged during a meeting. I cant say for certain what the 
discussions between Ms N and the adviser involved. Halifax hasnt been able to provide 
paperwork that was completed at the time. This isnt unusual for a sale that took place from 
so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. So, Ive considered 
Ms Ns comments alongside what we know in general about how Halifax sold MPPI at the 
time to decide whats more likely to have happened. And based on what I know about how 
Halifax sold MMPPI I wouldve expected there to have been conversations with the Halifax 
adviser about the MPPI and paperwork wouldve had to be completed to confirm the level of 
cover to set up the policy. 
So, taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented 
as optional, although I can understand why Ms N may not remember this as it was so long 
ago.
1999 sale
In 1997 Ms N arranged another mortgage with Halifax. It doesnt seem that MPPI was sold 
at this time. Instead, it seems that a policy was set up in May 1999. Halifax says this was 
arranged in branch. Ms N says this is not possible as she was unwell at the time. Ms N says 
she has no recollection of taking out this policy, and given her circumstances at the time she 
did not need it. In particular she says she was signed off from work due to stress.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide any paperwork for this sale. So, as Ive explained above I 
have to decide whats more likely to have happened in light of what Ms N and Halifax have 
said. Ive also taken into account our general understanding of how MPPI was sold. This has 
been built up by our service over many years of looking at MPPI complaints. And based on 
all of this I think some paperwork wouldve had to have been completed in order for the 
MPPI to be set up. I appreciate Ms Ns comments, but I think its unlikely Halifax wouldve 
set up a new policy for Ms N without some contact from her, indicating that she wanted the 
cover. And as Ms N had her mortgage for some time without the MPPI, I think she wouldve 
known that the policy was a separate and optional product.
So, taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that Ms N consented to the 
MPPI being set up and the policy was presented as optional.
1995 sale
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Ms N. This means it had to check it was right for Ms N 
based on her individual circumstances. Looking at Ms Ns circumstances at the time of sae, I 
think the policy was suitable for her. I say this because:
Ms N was eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem Ms N was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
Ms N says she wouldve received sick pay for up to three months from her 
employer at the time. And she says she wouldve received some redundancy 
pay. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 months if Ms N was off work due to 
accident or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for this long if she lost her job. This 
means Ms N wouldve had peace of mind that her mortgage payment would be 
covered, and any employer benefits could be used to help cover every day 
expenses or other financial commitments. 
Ms N was taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on her home. So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for her.  And I think having the security that their 
repayments wouldve been made if Ms N was unable to work wouldve been 
important to her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms N. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have amended or cancelled the policy if 
it no longer met her needs.
1999 sale
Halifax says it also recommended the policy Ms N took out in 1999. This means Halifax had 
to make sure the policy was right for Ms N based on her individual needs. Looking at Ms Ns 
circumstances at the time of sae, I think the policy was suitable for her. I say this because:Ms N was eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt seem Ms N was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover. Ms N says she was signed off from work with stress when she took 
the PPI out. Ive looked at the policy terms and Ms N wouldve been covered for 
this condition under the policy, if she had needed to claim. So, I think the MPPI 
wouldve provided useful cover for Ms N.  
Ms N says she wouldve received sick pay for up to 32 weeks from her employer 
at the time. And she says she wouldve received redundancy pay. The MPPI 
wouldve paid out for 24 months if Ms N was off work due to accident or sickness. 
It also wouldve paid out for this long if she lost her job. This means Ms N 
wouldve had peace of mind that her mortgage payment would be covered, and 
any employer benefits could be used to help cover every day expenses or other 
financial commitments. 
I can see Ms N says she was made redundant shortly after she took out the PPI. 
She says she did not claim under the policy for redundancy pay, which shows 
she didnt know she had the cover. Ms N has contacted the insurer to make a 
back dated claim. But this hasnt been accepted as the claim was made more 
than 12 months after Ms N was made redundant. Ive thought about Ms Ns 
comments carefully, and I appreciate her frustration. However, Im only looking 
into her complaint about the mis-sale. And the fact Mrs N didnt claim on the 
policy isnt enough for me to say that Halifax mis-sold it to her. 
Ms N was taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on her home. So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for her.  And I think having the security that their 
repayments wouldve been made if Ms N was unable to work wouldve been 
important to her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms N. And as the policys 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have amended or cancelled the policy if 
it no longer met her needs.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms N about the MPPI on both occasions 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover in 1995 and in 1999.
Ive thought about everything Ms N has said, including her detailed comments about her 
circumstances at the time and the difficulties she was experiencing. I dont doubt Ms Ns 
comments, but I have to consider them in light of what Halifax has provided and my general 
understanding of MPPI. And I havent seen enough for me to conclude that Halifax has acted 
wrongly. As I have noted above, I dont think its likely the policies wouldve been set up 
without some involvement from Ms N. I know my decision will come as a disappointment to 
Ms N, but I hope it sets out clearly why I dont think the policies were mis-sold to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman