DRN-3929142
The complaint
Mrs D complain that her landlord policy insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited wont consider 
her claim for damage and loss of rent from an escape of water at her rental property. 
References to Fairmead include its agents.
What happened
Mrs D owns a rental property. She said when a tenancy ended, she discovered an escape of 
water, and made a claim to her current insurer in June 2022, which was accepted. She said 
she had a tenant ready to move in but put this on hold for the claim. 
Mrs Ds current insurer requested details about the leak and sent a loss adjuster to assess 
the damage, who said it occurred before the policy started and had been ongoing for a 
significant amount of time. The insurer advised her to speak to her previous insurer, 
Fairmead and Mrs D claimed to Fairmead in August 2022.
Fairmead asked Mrs Ds current insurer for information about the claim and quotes for the 
repairs and liaised with the insurer during August and September 2022. In September 
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters and their report was received in early October 2022 and 
liability for the damage accepted. However, Fairmead declined Mrs Ds claim for loss of rent 
as she had no tenancy arrangements in place.
Mrs D complained to Fairmead about delays and having to continually chase for updates 
and for the decline of her claim for loss of rent. Fairmead said it hadnt caused delays but 
paid Mrs D £50 compensation for not providing an update about the claim, but said its 
decision to decline her loss of rent claim was correct. 
Mrs D was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Fairmead didnt cause 
significant or unreasonable delays in its handling of the claim. Concerning the loss of rent, 
the investigator said that at the time of the claim Mrs D didnt have a tenant and there was 
no new tenancy agreement in place, which meant there was no rental income to lose. 
Mrs D disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. 
She said time was wasted by Fairmead which increased the loss of rent, and she had to 
chase responses. Mrs D provided a letter from a third party saying they looked at the 
property in June 2022 but couldn't rent it because of the damage. The investigator said this 
was dated well after the event and didnt prove a tenancy was in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at Mrs Ds claim to see if Fairmead has acted in accordance with the 
terms of the policy, and treated her fairly. Mrs D has raised a separate complaint about her 
current insurer, and I havent considered that here. 
I was sorry to learn about the damage to Mrs Ds property. It is clear from the property 
inspection that it wasnt habitable at the time and so Mrs D would not have been able to let it 
out. Im pleased her claim for the damage has been accepted.
Mrs Ds policy includes cover for loss of rent. In order to say Fairmead should cover a loss of 
rent claim I would need to be satisfied that it caused delays which meant the property 
couldve been rented sooner. From the timeline of events and communications I havent 
found that Fairmead delayed progress of the claim. Fairmead received the claim in August, 
made enquiries and obtained an expert report following which it accepted the claim in 
October 2022. It was entitled to make enquiries of Mrs Ds current insurer and obtain 
information, and I think it has treated Mrs D fairly.  
Mrs Ds current insurer said that there was no tenancy agreement in place at the time of the 
claim and no future tenancy arranged. I have looked at the case file provided by Fairmead 
and there is no mention of any prospective tenancy at the time of the claim. 
Mrs D said her loss of rent is demonstrated by the letter she provided from a third party 
about renting the property. However, the letter is dated seven months after the claim event 
and there was no tenancy agreement in place with this person or any other at the time of the 
claim. This means there was no rental income to lose at the time.
From everything I have seen, I am satisfied that Fairmead has made decisions about Mrs 
Ds claim in line with the insurance policy and that it has treated her fairly. And so I wont be 
asking Fairmead to do anything further. This does not affect the outcome of Mrs Ds 
separate complaint about her current insurer.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman