DRN-4044791
The complaint
Mr M complains about a decision taken by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax)
to decline a claim he made against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(section 75) and about its decision to treat his correspondence on the matter as a
complaint.
What happened
In November 2016 Mr M purchased a sofa from a company that I will call N. Mr M says the
sofa was represented to him by N as being leather and he understood that under his
contract with N it had undertaken to supply him with a sofa that was leather. The price of the
sofa was £838.95 (£799 plus £39.95 for delivery), and Mr M paid for the purchase using his
Halifax credit card.
In 2021 the sofa material began to peel so Mr M says he contacted a number of leather
repair specialists who all concluded the sofa wasnt leather and a repair would be
uneconomical.
In December 2021 Mr M attempted to secure a refund from N without success.
In January 2022 Mr M raised a payment dispute with Halifax. Halifax responded shortly
afterwards to say it was too late to raise a chargeback against N (on the grounds of time) but
it would consider Mr Ms claim under section 75.
In January 2022 Mr M issued a claim in the county court against N for the sum of £1,321.67.
In February 2022 Halifax declined Mr Ms section 75 claim on the grounds that, in its view,
there had been no misrepresentation or breach of contract by N. Mr M asked for this
decision to be reviewed and the process for escalating the issue further, if necessary.
Halifax treated Mr Ms request for his section 75 claim declinature to be reviewed as a
complaint.
In February 2022 Halifax issued Mr M with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this
FRL Halifax said it was satisfied it had acted correctly in declining Mr Ms section 75 claim.
In February 2022 Mr M was notified by the county court that E hadnt defended his claim
(against it) and he could now request a county court judgement (against it).
In March 2022 Halifax issued Mr M with a further FRL. Under cover of this FRL Halifax
explained why it had initially considered Mr Ms payment dispute under the Mastercard
chargeback rules, rather than as a section 75 claim.
In March 2022 Mr M wrote to Halifax to ask it (again) to review its decision to decline his
section 75 claim. In the absence of a satisfactory response Mr M said he would:
issue complaints (for unfairly rejecting my Section 75 claim and raising a complain
without my consent and against my express will) with a view to escalating this issue to the
Financial Ombudsman and/or County Court as appropriate. [sic]
In March 2022 Mr M secured a judgement (in default) against N for the sum of £1,325.78.
Shorty, after receiving judgement, Mr M wrote to Halifax saying he hadnt received a
response to his March 2022 letter and enclosing a copy of the judgement he had secured as
further evidence in support of why, in his view, his section 75 claim should succeed.
In April 2022 Mr M referred matters to our service for investigation.
In July 2022 Mr M told us that despite appointing bailiffs he had been unsuccessful in
securing payment of (or goods to the value of) £1,325.78 from E.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
shouldnt be upheld. Mr M didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me for
review and decision.
In March 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr M has very strong feelings about this complaint and I can confirm Ive read and
considered everything he has submitted. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every
point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for
reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the card
provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and section 75. I would
expect the card provider to consider both avenues, so I dont think Halifax did anything
wrong in first considering Mr Ms payment dispute under the relevant chargeback rules  in
this case Mastercards.
Furthermore, I cant see that Halifaxs decision to consider Mr Ms payment dispute, in the
first instance, under the Mastercard chargeback rules caused him any loss or any material
distress and inconvenience. Amongst other things, I say this because of how quickly Halifax
went on to confirm to Mr M that although it was unable to raise a chargeback (on the
grounds of time), it would consider his payment dispute under section 75.
Halifax declined Mr Ms section 75 claim because it wasnt persuaded there had been any
misrepresentation or breach of contract by N.Mr M bought the sofa using his Halifax credit card. Under section 75, in certain
circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Halifax as he does the supplier if
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. My role isnt to decide
Halifaxs liability under section 75. Instead, as statute requires me to, I need to decide whats
fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such as the Consumer Credit Act
1974.
In this case Mr M is the debtor, Halifax is the creditor and N is the supplier. There were no
other parties involved so Im satisfied the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier agreement
exists for Mr M to make a claim under section 75 against Halifax. The sofa cost £838.95
(inclusive of delivery), so Im also satisfied this claim falls within the financial limits of
section 75.
Im satisfied that the sofa isnt leather, and Mr Ms claim (against Halifax under section 75) is
that N represented the sofa as being leather and the contract he entered into with N was for
the supply of a sofa that was leather. With this in mind, Ive gone on to consider whether
Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ms section 75 claim on the grounds there
was insufficient evidence to conclude any misrepresentation or breach of contract by N.
Mr M submits that the sofa he purchased was listed by N as leather. Now I dont dispute that
the sofa Mr M purchased was available in leather, but Ive seen insufficient evidence that the
particular sofa Mr M ordered (Cayenne 1119 Grey) was listed as being leather. And because
of this, Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in concluding there had been no
misrepresentation by N.
I can see that on 24 November 2016 Mr M asked for his order to be amended to black
leather, Cayenne 1114 Black, from Cayenne 1119 Grey. But Ive seen insufficient evidence
that the sofa Mr M was ultimately supplied with was anything other than what was caught by
the description/code Cayenne 1114 Black. And for the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm that
I dont think it was unreasonable for N to have processed Mr Ms amended order on the
basis of the description/code of Cayenne 1114 Black without seeking clarification from him,
especially given his initial order was processed as Cayenne 1119 Grey. And because of this,
Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in concluding there had been no breach
of contract by N.
In support of his claim to Halifax, and in his complaint to our service, Mr M says Ns website
states, or stated, that all its products meet British Standards. He also made reference to
British Standard 2780:1983, British Standard EN 15987:2015, guidance from the Advertising
Standards Authority, a ruling made by the Adverting Standards Authority and a decision
made by the Motor Ombudsman. But given what Ive concluded above, I cant see any of
this helps Mr Ms complaint and I see no reason to comment on it in this decision.
I appreciate Mr M has secured judgement against N for the sum of £1,325.78. But, in my
view this doesnt help Mr M either. I say this because the court didnt make a finding on the
merits of Mr Ms claim, but rather found in Mr Ms favour on the grounds N didnt respond to
the claim.
Finally, I would add that based on what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied
that Halifax dealt with Mr Ms payment dispute appropriately and I cant see how Mr M has
been prejudiced by Halifax treating his correspondence on this matter as a complaint.
Indeed, it could be said that under its regulatory obligations, as soon as Mr M expressed any
type of dissatisfaction, Halifax was required to treat that expression of dissatisfaction as a
complaint. And because of all this, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be appropriate to make an
award for distress and inconvenience in favour of Mr M.Halifax responded to my provisional decision to say that it had nothing further to add.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say he was still of the view that his complaint 
should be upheld. In summary he said:
he would like clarification of my statement:
Mr M submits that the sofa he purchased was listed by N as leather. Now I dont dispute 
that the sofa Mr M purchased was available in leather, but Ive seen insufficient evidence 
that the particular sofa Mr M ordered (Cayenne 1119 Grey) was listed as being leather. 
And because of this, Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in concluding 
there had been no misrepresentation by N.
I can see that on 24 November 2016 Mr M asked for his order to be amended to black
leather, Cayenne 1114 Black, from Cayenne 1119 Grey. But Ive seen insufficient 
evidence that the sofa Mr M was ultimately supplied with was anything other than what 
was caught by the description/code Cayenne 1114 Black. And for the avoidance of 
doubt, I can confirm that I dont think it was unreasonable for N to have processed 
Mr Ms amended order on the basis of the description/code of Cayenne 1114 Black 
without seeking clarification from him, especially given his initial order was processed as 
Cayenne 1119 Grey. And because of this, Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably in concluding there had been no breach of contract by N.
but his understanding of my statement was that:
oI accepted the sofa was available in leather
oI accepted that he amended his order to black leather, Cayenne 1114 Black
oI was of the view that there was insufficient evidence to suggest that Cayenne 
1119 Grey was listed as leather
oI was of the view that there was insufficient evidence to suggest that Cayenne 
1114 Black was listed as leather
oI was of the view that N supplied him with the correct sofa, in other words 
Cayenne 1114 Black
oI was of the view that N didnt act unreasonably in not seeking clarification 
from him over his amended order
both sofas (Cayenne 1114 Black and Cayenne 1119 Grey) were available in different 
materials including leather and eco-leather
N offered a number of sofas in eco-leather
Cayenne 1114 Black is in respect of a sofa supplied in black and in eco-leather
Cayenne 1119 Grey is in respect of a sofa supplied in grey and in eco-leather
by describing the material of both sofas as eco-leather N is in breach of British 
Standard 2780:1983 and British Standard EN 15987:2015
N states all its products meet the required British Standards, when clearly they dontN should have reasonably construed his amended order for black leather, Cayenne 
1114 Black as a black eco-leather sofa made from genuine leather
his amended order for black leather, Cayenne 1114 Black constitutes a contract and 
should have been taken literally by N and not contextually
his view above is supported by the Supreme Court Judgement in Arnold v Britton &
Ors [2015] UKSC 36 (10 June 2015)
he has proved his case on the balance of probabilities
Mr M then went on to say that if I was still of the view his complaint shouldnt be upheld he 
would like to understand what further steps are available to [him] in an effort to seek the 
seek the compensation [that he is] chasing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has asked me to clarify two paragraphs in my provisional decision, but his 
understanding of those two paragraphs is:
oI accepted the sofa was available in leather
oI accepted that he amended his order to black leather, Cayenne 1114 Black
oI was of the view that there was insufficient evidence to suggest that Cayenne 1119 
Grey was listed as leather
oI was of the view that there was insufficient evidence to suggest that Cayenne 1114 
Black was listed as leather
oI was of the view that N supplied him with the correct sofa, in other words Cayenne 
1114 Black
oI was of the view that N didnt act unreasonably in not seeking clarification from him 
over his amended order
Mr Ms understanding of my two paragraphs is correct. But having reviewed everything 
afresh I would say that Im now of the view that the Cayenne sofa may have been available 
in leather rather than it was available in leather. But this has no material bearing on the 
outcome of this complaint.
Now as I said in my provisional decision my role isnt to decide Halifaxs liability under 
section 75. Instead, as statute requires me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, 
taking into account any relevant law, such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Based on what Mr M has said and provided Im satisfied that Halifax acted both fairly and 
reasonably in declining his section 75 claim. I say this because Im simply not persuaded 
that Mr M has produced enough evidence for me to say that Halifax should have concluded 
that it was liable to him under section 75.
In my view Cayenne 1114 Black and Cayenne 1119 Grey werent represented to Mr M (or 
the general public more widely) by N as being in leather.But even if I was to accept that Cayenne 1114 Black and Cayenne 1119 Grey were 
represented as coming in eco-leather by N, and describing them as such constitutes a 
misrepresentation, doesnt mean Halifax should have upheld Mr Ms section 75 claim (on the 
grounds of misrepresentation). This is because as well as deciding whether there had been 
any misrepresentation by N, Halifax would have needed to decide whether Mr M was misled 
by such a misrepresentation. 
And based on how Mr M has presented himself throughout his claim and subsequent 
complaint (both to our service and the Halifax) Im satisfied that on the balance of 
probabilities he would have understood that eco-leather wasnt genuine leather and 
therefore it cant be said he was misled by any representation by N that Cayenne 1114 Black 
and Cayenne 1119 Grey came in eco-leather.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M reiterated his view that by describing the 
material of both sofas as eco-leather N is in breach of British Standard 2780:1983 and 
British Standard EN 15987:2015. 
Now this might be the case, but I remain of the view that this doesnt, in itself, help Mr M in 
his complaint that Halifax should have met his section 75 claim. Im also not persuaded that 
N stating that all its products meet the required British Standards helps Mr M (in this respect) 
either. 
Mr M says his amended order for black leather, Cayenne 1114 Black constitutes a contract 
and should have been taken literally by N, and not contextually, and that his view in this 
respect is supported by the Supreme Court Judgement in Arnold v Britton & Ors [2015] 
UKSC 36 (10 June 2015)
Im aware of the case of Arnold V Britton and what the judges (by a 4;1 majority) found, that 
being a contract clause should be interpreted literally. But there have been subsequent 
cases that have found that there can be one or more interpretations of a contract clause with 
more weight being given to the interpretation that is more consistent with business common 
sense.
So, with this in mind and given that Im not bound by what a court might find, I remain of the 
view that it was entirely reasonable, given Mr Ms original order (and contract) was for 
Cayenne 1119 Grey, for N to treat Mr Ms order variation to black leather, Cayenne 1114 
Black as being an order for Cayenne 1114 Black without seeking clarification from him. Im 
certainly satisfied that Halifax was entitled to find that N did nothing wrong in this respect and 
that it provided him with what he ordered. In other words, by providing Mr M what it did, N 
wasnt in breach of contract, and it wasnt liable under section 75.
Mr M says he has proved his case on the balance of probabilities. But for the reasons given 
above I disagree, and Im satisfied that Halifax did nothing wrong in declining his section 75 
claim.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But he is free to not accept it. And if 
he decides not to accept it he may still be able to take the complaint to court.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman