DRN-3258313
The complaint
Mr J complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money refused to issue him with a 
replacement card on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr J has a Clydesdale credit card account. On 8 April 2021 Clydesdale wrote to Mr J to say 
that based on his account history and credit record, it had decided not to issue him with a 
replacement card when his current card expired in July 2021. And that when he had repaid 
the balance of his account, the account would be closed. 
Mr J asked Clydesdale to reconsider. Clydesdale called Mr J on 14 April 2021 to say it 
wouldnt change its decision. It contacted Mr J again two days later to say the same thing. 
And about a week after that, Clydesdale wrote to Mr J to confirm it hadnt changed its 
decision. 
Mr J complained to Clydesdale. He was unhappy with its decision not to issue a replacement 
card and thought it had contacted him an unnecessary amount of times about that. 
In response to Mr Js complaint, Clydesdale said it reviewed accounts regularly to ensure 
cards are still appropriate for its customers. It said it was right not to issue Mr J with a 
replacement card, and its terms and conditions entitled it to decide this. But Clydesdale 
accepted it had contacted Mr J unnecessarily, and paid £50 into his credit card account as 
compensation for this. 
Mr J complained to our Service about Clydesdales decision not to issue a replacement card. 
He said this was insensitive and unfair, and he couldnt understand its decision as he didnt 
have any debt on this credit card account. Mr J said he was furloughed for three months in 
2020 and fell into financial difficulty, but was slowly getting things back in control. 
After looking into Mr Js complaint, our Investigator explained Clydesdale thought Mr J had 
debt across a large number of accounts, with a significant amount of adverse information on 
his credit record. Given this, she thought Clydesdales decision not to provide a replacement 
card was fair and reasonable, and in line with the regulations, and the account terms and 
conditions. She also thought Clydesdale had given Mr J reasonable notice of its decision not 
to issue a replacement card.
Mr J asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision, so it came to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, a lender is required to carry out checks which are reasonable and 
proportionate to the amount being lent. And it should show it considered that the borrower 
would be able to sustainably repay the lending, without causing undue difficulty and without 
having to borrow further to meet other financial commitments. Sustainably repay means the 
borrower should be able to repay the full amount of credit within a reasonable time.
Ive looked at Clydesdales records of the review it carried out for Mr Js account. It obtained 
information from credit reference agencies about how he was managing his finances overall. 
From this, Clydesdale saw Mr J had a significant amount of debt across a large number of 
accounts. And that he had payment arrangements, arrears and a default on his credit record. 
Our Service has asked Mr J to let us know if he thinks this information is not correct, but Mr J 
hasnt provided any further comments or evidence about that. So, Im satisfied its not 
disputed Mr J had significant adverse information on his credit record.
I acknowledge Mr Js suggestion that hes managed his Clydesdale credit card account well. 
But based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Clydesdale to conclude Mr J might not be able to repay debt on his Clydesdale credit card. 
And I think that by deciding not to issue a replacement card, it took fair and reasonable steps 
to prevent Mr J from further indebtedness while allowing him to continue repaying any 
existing balance he had on his Clydesdale account. I also think Clydesdale gave Mr J 
reasonable notice that it wouldnt issue a replacement card, because it told him about this 
approximately three months before his current cards expiry date.
In addition, the terms and conditions of Mr Js account entitle Clydesdale to say it wont issue 
a replacement card. They say, In some circumstances, we may prevent or limit the use of 
your card or card details, decline a transaction or transfer whether authorised by you, or a 
permitted third party provider, or refuse to issue a replacement card, including where:  we 
reasonably consider there is a risk you will not be able to repay us (even when you are 
paying the Minimum Payment).
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Clydesdale has treated Mr J fairly and 
reasonably regarding his replacement card, so Im not asking it to do anything further here. 
I understand this isnt the answer Mr J hoped for, and Im sorry to hear of his financial 
difficulties. I note Mr J says hes slowly getting these under control. But I still thought it might 
be helpful to mention that there are debt support organisations Mr J can contact, if he hasnt 
already. Our Service can provide details of these organisations if thats something Mr J 
would like.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ailsa WiltshireOmbudsman