DRN-3131951
The complaint
Mrs V, on behalf of his estate, complains about the suitability of the advice Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK limited (Aviva) gave her late father in 2011 to purchase an annuity. She 
believes her fathers circumstances at the time meant he didnt understand what was being 
recommended and that he should have had someone else present with him at any advice 
meetings. She thinks the plan was mis sold. 
She would like the funds that would still have remained in the plan to be returned to her as a 
lump sum. 
What happened
The late Mr C held a personal pension plan (PPP) with his bank. Prior to the end of the term 
of the plan he spoke with his bank about his retirement options. His PPP was valued at 
around £50,219 at that time. 
As a result of a referral agreement between his bank and Aviva, the late Mr C was directed 
to speak with Aviva  which he did on three occasions in September 2011. Following a 
review of his circumstances he was advised to purchase a single life enhanced annuity, after 
withdrawal of his maximum allowable tax free cash, paying £354.94 per month with a five 
year guarantee period. 
When Aviva received the funds it made a tax free cash payment of £12,220.77 and it used 
the residual fund of £36,662.31 to purchase an enhanced monthly annuity of £346.95  
equivalent to an annuity rate of 11.35%. 
The payments continued until unfortunately Mr C died in July 2019.
But in January 2020 Mrs V complained. She said she thought the annuity had ben mis sold 
to her late father. She said it wasnt a suitable option considering his poor health at the time 
as well as other issues that he had. She also explained that he hadnt understood that his 
remaining funds would be lost upon his death. She wanted Aviva to retrieve all/part of the 
remaining monies.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it has been referred to the late Mr C as a result 
of an arrangement with his bank. It only spoke with him on the telephone and wasnt 
required to request a chaperone for him on that basis. It said it was satisfied that all the 
options were explained and that its advice was suitable and the medical underwriting 
necessary for the enhanced annuity had been conducted thoroughly. 
But it accepted it hadnt dealt with Mrs Vs complaint in a timely manner, especially 
considering the difficult time it must have been for her. It paid her £350 for the trouble and 
upset its delays had caused.
Mrs V didnt accept the outcome and so brought her complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He made the 
following points in support of his assessment:
It appeared that the late Mr C had several telephone conversations with Avivas 
adviser and the meeting didnt take place in his home. So it wasnt possible for the 
adviser to have concluded that the late Mr C would need additional support when 
making a decision  based purely on his domestic situation. 
But even if a third party ought to have been involved the investigator still thought the 
outcome would have been the same. The investigator thought the late Mr C had 
three options with his pension and that as he didnt want any investment risk with his 
funds a drawdown plan wasnt a suitable option. And as he wasnt able to meet his 
day to day expenses it didnt seem suitable for him to leave his pension plan in place 
either. So it would seem that an annuity  which in the late Mr Cs case was 
enhanced due to his medical history, was the most suitable option after all. 
Aviva werent assessing the suitability of a drawdown contract as it had been referred 
to the late Mr C by his pension provider, after it appeared an annuity was the best 
option for him. But Aviva still had a duty of care to provide suitable advice  which the 
investigator thought it had.
Mrs V didnt agree. She was concerned that her late fathers situation meant he wasnt in a 
position to make his own decisions. She cited examples of actions he had taken which 
supported her view, as well confirming the medical conditions he was suffering from at the 
time. 
But the investigator said that even if that were the case, he still believed the advice the late 
Mr C was given was the most appropriate in his situation. 
Mrs V remain dissatisfied because she thought that the decision her late father made 
regarding the annuity wasnt in line with the type of character hed always been. She said he 
would never have made a financial decision that didnt provide for his family in the event of 
his death. She asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and so its been 
passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Im sure this 
outcome will come as a disappointment to Mrs V as Ive seen how strongly she feels about 
this matter through her submissions. Im also sorry for the time its taken to reach the 
conclusion as Im sure this has been a very difficult time for her. So Id like to explain the 
reasons for reaching my decision which I hope will help Mrs V to achieve some closure on 
this matter.
Id like to assure Mrs V that Ive read her submissions carefully including her description of 
the type of person her late father was, and I understand why she would feel that the 
purchase of an annuity  which might not always make provision for his family on his death, 
would be out of character for him. 
So Ive looked at the way Aviva behaved during the advice process, how it treated the late 
Mr C and the recommendation it subsequently made  to decide what should happen here.  
Should Aviva have advised the late Mr C without any representation based on his 
circumstances at the time?
The late Mr Cs PPP was held with his bank and it was only through a referral arrangement 
that he was referred to Aviva. I assume by that point the bank had reviewed his circumstances and thought him best suited to a product offered by Aviva. So I think Aviva 
was entitled to expect that the late Mr Cs circumstances had been explored to some extent 
by that time. Theres no suggestion that Aviva needed to be aware of any issues which might 
mean that he needed to be treated as vulnerable or should have another person with him 
during any discussions.
Avivas discussions with the late Mr C all took place on the phone. The fact that there were 
three meetings before a decision was agreed, would suggest that he wasnt put under any 
pressure to purchase the annuity without time to reflect or seek guidance elsewhere in the 
meantime. So I think Aviva acted reasonably in the time it gave the late Mr C to consider its 
recommendation. 
I know Mrs V says that Aviva would have better understood the circumstances in which the 
late Mr C was living in at the time, both physically and mentally, if it had explored his 
domestic situation during a face to face meeting. But there was no requirement on Aviva to 
have to conduct the meeting face to face. So it wouldnt have become aware of his domestic 
issues  which might have been a gateway to better understanding his situation.
So I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in its approach or the way in which it undertook its 
information gathering exercise. Indeed, as Ive said it carried out the process over three 
different telephone discussions.
Im not persuaded there were any alarm bells for Aviva at this point, but I would have 
expected it to notice any issues that might affect its advice during the information gathering 
exercise. But it would seem that the late Mr C provided a lot of what I assume to be accurate 
information about his circumstances  including his marital status, his income and outgoings, 
his residential position, and his debts. I think its reasonable for Aviva to assume that the late 
Mr C was capable of deciding what was in his best interest based on the raft of information 
he had provided. Ive taken into account the possibility that the information may have been 
passed on by the bank, but it would still have been provided by him in the first place.
Much has been made of the late Mr Cs medical history at the time and the serious 
conditions he suffered from. But Aviva was aware of his medical history as he had provided 
it to Aviva, who used it to provide an illustration for an enhanced annuity.  Only the late Mr C 
would have been able to either provide that information or provide details of the medical 
professionals that could have then shared the details with Avivas annuity underwriters.
 
So it would be unreasonable to say that Aviva was either unaware of the late Mr Cs medical 
conditions and how this might affect his decision making process, or that it wasnt taken into 
consideration when issuing its recommendation. I note the annuity he purchased was nearly 
twice the rate of a standard annuity for someone of his age  so I think the medical history 
was used in this process. Indeed further information was requested from the various medical 
professionals after the first enhancement was granted and when it was reviewed by the 
underwriters, they decided the original enhancement was still appropriate. 
 
I dont dispute what Mrs V says about her late fathers circumstances at the time. I have 
sympathy for how the outcome of the advice process must appear to her  given what she 
knew at the time. But I have to be sure that Aviva knew about the situation and then didnt 
take that into account in its dealings with the late Mr C. And in this case, theres insufficient 
evidence to support either of those claims. 
I think Aviva treated the late Mr C fairly based on what it did know, given that it didnt meet 
him in a domestic situation. And I think where it was aware of his medical conditions for example, it ensured they were incorporated into the recommendation so that the information 
was used in his best interest.
But even if I think Aviva treated the late Mr C fairly when it advised him, Ive also gone on to 
look at the suitability of its recommendation and whether it was appropriate.
What the advice suitable?
Mrs V says the annuity was mis sold to her late father and that, as well as the issues around 
his comprehension of the situation and ability to make a sound decision at that time, he 
thought hed purchased a product which would leave something for his family on his death. 
She thinks that he simply wasnt the type of person to have chosen the plan that he did. 
Its not possible to know what was discussed during the telephone conversations between 
Aviva and the late Mr C in 2011, but I have looked carefully at the suitability report Aviva 
produced which I think is likely to have reflected what was discussed.
I think the risk warnings within the suitability letter made it clear enough that an annuity was 
for life  however long that may be, and there would be no more residual fund available. I 
think that, even if the late Mr C was restricted in his capacity to understand matters, that 
ought to have been clear to him from the letter. 
The suitability report made a number of references to the way the annuity works such as, I 
recommend the enhanced pension annuity as you have an illness or condition which could 
shorten life expectancy. The plan provides a regular, secure level of income thats paid for 
life in exchange for investing a capital sum with Aviva. And in reference to the way the 
annuity would be paid it noted that, as you have no financial dependents, we agreed the 
plan should be payable throughout your life but should cease on death. As well as, if you 
die in the early years the total income youd have received may be less than the pension 
fund used to purchase the annuity plan. So Im satisfied Aviva made Mr C aware of the risks 
of purchasing an annuity  one of which was that it provided a guaranteed income but only 
for the rest of his life.
But there were other options available to the late Mr C regarding his PPP fund. He could 
have left the existing plan in place for longer and potentially enjoyed a higher annuity rate, or 
he could have transferred the benefits to a drawdown type plan, withdrawing the tax free 
cash and taking income more flexibly.
But the suitability report recorded that his outgoings exceeded his income and as he was still 
working (semi-retired) this position was unlikely to improve, especially as it was noted that 
he had a personal loan and credit card balance outstanding and had to pay rent for his 
home. So I think it was reasonable to conclude that the late Mr C needed to take the PPP 
benefits at that point.
Using Mrs Vs assertion that her late father wouldnt have taken out a product that didnt 
provide for his family, would suggest that he should have most likely taken out a drawdown 
type plan in 2011. 
But there were several reasons for thinking that a drawdown plan wasnt suitable for the late 
Mr C. Firstly it was recorded that he didnt want to take any investment risk with his money. 
And given his relatively low income and his lack of available assets this wouldnt seem an 
unreasonable attitude. Any investment into a drawdown plan, even with a low risk strategy, 
would have put his fund at some risk.
In addition Mrs V has commented that the late Mr C shouldnt have been advised to take out 
an annuity but should have been told to stop making payments to charities. Im not satisfied that Aviva would have known about the late Mr Cs spending patterns at that time or even 
that it was in a position to tell him what to do with his money  I think it satisfied its 
requirement by establishing that his outgoings exceeded his income. But I dont think the 
recommendation of a drawdown plan would have stopped his spending habits. It would have 
allowed the late Mr C to use the funds however he wanted. So I dont think the 
recommendation of a drawdown plan would have had the effect Mrs V might have hoped for.
But even if I a wrong in my assumption of how the drawdown plan might have worked, it 
wouldnt have provided the same level of income as the annuity. The investigator has 
demonstrated how, according to one well known pension provider, the maximum annual 
income the late Mr C could have drawn from a drawdown plan in 2011 was £3,391.26. This 
was significantly less than the £4,163 he received from the enhanced annuity. 
In order to increase the drawdown income the late Mr C would have needed to take ad-hoc 
withdrawals  which would most likely have led to the early erosion of his fund, or he would 
have needed to take a greater risk with the investment strategy of the plan, which would 
have been beyond his attitude to risk and would have meant the investment was likely to 
have been unsuitable.
The late Mr C had a number of serious medical conditions when he spoke with Aviva which it 
was then able to incorporate into his annuity calculation to make the income significantly 
higher than a standard offering. As a result it would have been difficult to match this income 
with an alternative product which didnt take medical or lifestyle factors into consideration. So 
its difficult to conclude that a drawdown option would have been a more suitable option for 
him. 
I know Mrs V believes that her late father wouldnt have taken out a product which didnt 
allow for some protection and benefit for his family on his death. But looking at his 
circumstances at the time, with no financial dependents and a need to provide additional 
income to meet his outgoings, I dont think an annuity was an unsuitable recommendation. 
And by including a guarantee period of five years Aviva ensured that at least some of the 
fund would be paid out in the event of his earlier death. 
When the late Mr C spoke with Aviva in 2011 there were essentially three options available 
to him regarding his pension. Ive looked at each of those options above and it would seem 
to me that the recommendation of an enhanced annuity wasnt an unsuitable 
recommendation. I know Mrs V thinks it was mis sold and out of character for her late 
father. But that doesnt mean it wasnt suitable for his circumstances at the time.
I note Aviva has sent Mrs V £350 as an apology for its delays in dealing with her complaint. 
But complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity so its not something I can look into and 
make any comment on. I have sympathy for Mrs V and what shes gone through here and 
the position she finds herself in. But Im satisfied that Aviva didnt treat her late father unfairly 
in its dealings with him. I dont think its done anything wrong and I dont think it needs to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V on behalf of 
the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman