DRN-1692381
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr F says 
Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold to him with a credit card. 
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr F 
disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Ive been sent the actual application form Mr F used to get his card and this shows that he 
had a choice. This is because there was a section on the form headed OPTIONAL 
FEATURES. Underneath this there was a box that required ticking if the consumer wanted 
this type of cover. It was described as Payment Protection Plan. Mr F ticked the PPI box 
and signed the form, so I think this clearly shows he consented to the PPI and would have 
known it wasnt something that was compulsory. Mr Fs monthly credit card statements 
would have then started to show any charges for PPI on them. If he hadnt wanted the policy 
he would have wanted, I assume, to know what these charges were for. 
Lloyds says it would have probably recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this 
means it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Fs situation. I looked at 
Mr Fs age, job, health and general circumstances to help me decide about this. 
I think that Mr F was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see. We also now know the cost was around £0.77 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Fs card. Ive seen nothing that suggests Mr 
F would have found these monthly charges unaffordable.
I agree Mr F probably had some protection from sickness wit his job. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. In the event of a successful claim for example, Mr F 
wouldve been able to have the outstanding credit card balance reduced by 10% each month 
for up to 12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition to any other means he 
already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things into account, I think the policy was probably suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr F clear information. I obviously cant confirm he was told 
everything he should have been told. But I can see the cost of the cover was outlined directly 
beside where he made his choice on the form about the PPI. I think he agreed to the policy and would have been able to see that he had it in place. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay anything to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman