DRN-3910375
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax recorded a marker at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database, when it closed her account.
What happened
Miss S says she wasnt involved in any fraudulent activity and had lost her bank card. Shed 
later made a subject access request to CIFAS in September 2021, and this showed that a 
marker had been added in May 2020 when her accounts were closed. She says shes not 
been able to open an account at any other financial business because of the marker. 
Halifax said that it hadnt made a mistake. And that it had added the marker because it didnt 
get a response from Miss S about transactions on the account. It said that a full investigation 
was carried out before the accounts were closed.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the marker removed. Hed 
asked Halifax to provide information about the investigation including fraud notes, contact 
notes of any discussion with Miss S, account statements and details of the payments made 
into and from her account at the time. Halifax said it couldnt provide anything further than its 
customer notes which referred to Miss S needing to show entitlement to the funds and her 
identification. He said that hed expect Halifax to retain the information that supported the 
application of the marker during the period it was registered. And he didnt think that Halifax 
had been able to show that there were grounds for the marker to be added. 
Halifax disagreed and said that it had shown that there was contact with Miss S at the time 
and reported that its fraud department spoke with her on 14 July 2020 and that this would 
have included discussing the circumstances.  Our adjudicator said he didnt think that this 
was sufficient and referred this complaint for a decision by an ombudsman. Halifax has since 
provided information that there were seven payments of £500 into Miss S account on 9 May 
2020 and not just one for £3,500 and so that this wasnt an isolated case. Halifax said that 
this should make a difference to our assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Halifax needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I appreciate that Halifax considered the information request from our adjudicator to be 
extensive. But its up to Halifax to show that it had grounds to add the marker and reached 
the required standard of proof. I note what Halifax has recently said about the payments. But 
that is from a recent email and not source information. Frankly I have very limited information 
about the payments reported as fraudulent, who reported them and why and what 
investigation was done. While it may have tried to contact Miss S there are no clear notes 
about what was discussed and why it didnt accept any testimony at the time. Although its 
indicated to us that shed need to show that the payments werent fraudulent, her version of 
what happened is that her account was taken over. I dont have any clear evidence to refute 
that and about why that wasnt accepted.
I dont have reason to doubt based on what Ive seen that there were grounds for suspicion 
at the time. But Halifax is reasonably required to support the marker with evidence. There is 
insufficient for me to find its met the required standard of proof for a marker to be added.
Having said that it was a commercial decision as to whether Halifax wanted to offer Miss S 
an account. And based on what its said it wouldnt be agreeing a future application by    
Miss S to any part of its business group. Again, that would be a matter for its discretion.
I agree with the suggested resolution of our adjudicator.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to remove the CIFAS marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman