DRN-3029273
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs D says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that because NatWest 
told us that the commission for Mrs Ds PPI was less than 50% of what she paid, NatWest 
didnt need to pay back any of the commission she paid for the PPI.
Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided NatWest didnt need to tell Mrs D 
about the commission it received - so NatWest doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mrs D paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think NatWest made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because NatWest has provided a copy of Mrs Ds telephone 
mortgage application from the time. Looking at this I can see there is a separate section 
for PPI, which records that Mrs D said Yes to wanting to take out PPI. She also 
completed and signed a separate PPI application and direct debit mandate to allow the 
premiums to be taken from Mrs Ds bank account. 
NatWest has also provided a mortgage illustration document sent to Mrs D after her 
telephone mortgage interview. And I can see this described PPI as being optional.
So taking everything into account, I think Mrs D chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
NatWest says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that it did. This means NatWest didnt have to check that the PPI was right or 
suitable for Mrs D. But it did have to give Mrs D enough clear and timely information so 
she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs D  for example she 
was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about her employment or occupation, 
which would have made it difficult for her to claim. And while Mrs D told us she had 
around £15,000 in savings at the time, her mortgage application says her cash savings 
were significantly less at around £4,500. Its also the case that she wasnt entitled to any 
sick pay, so I think the policy couldve played a useful part in helping her protect her 
mortgage payments and ultimately her home.
Although Mrs D says she had a medical condition before the policy was taken out, I dont 
think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused 
her to change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Mrs D said her 
condition happened towards the end of 2002. She said she had to take some time off 
work  but shes not said that her condition continued or caused her issues again. So 
given the policy only excluded continuing diseases, or things which occurred within the 
first 12 months of cover as a result of something which happened during the 12 months 
immediately before the start date, I dont think Mrs D would have been caught by the 
exclusion. The start date of the policy was early 2004 when the mortgage was drawn 
down, which is more than 12 months after Mrs D suffered with her condition.
In addition there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. And while Mrs D says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive not seen 
anything else to suggest the policy wasnt affordable  so it seems like it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs D would 
have declined the cover had NatWest done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs D would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NatWest should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ds particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so 
NatWest doesnt need to do pay back any of the commission Mrs D paid. My reasons are set 
out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs D should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: NatWest failed to tell Mrs D about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs D wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, NatWest has told us that the commission for Mrs Ds PPI was less than half 
of what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Ds case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipprofit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think NatWest needed to tell Mrs D about the commission. So it follows that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think NatWest treated Mrs D 
unfairly. 
This means NatWest doesnt need to pay Mrs D back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ds complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs D paid for the 
PPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman