DRN-3319577
The complaint
Miss O complains about the way NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams (NewDay) dealt with 
refunds to her account and says that there are outstanding refunds which still need to be 
credited to her.
What happened
Miss O had a Debenhams store card account which was provided by NewDay. In 2019, she 
returned numerous items which she had purchased on the card. She says that, in 2021, she 
noticed that she had many refund receipts for which she couldnt see a corresponding credit 
on her account statements. Miss O says there are 33 missing refunds, which have a 
combined value of nearly £3,000. 
Miss O complained to NewDay. It said that all the refunds it received from Debenhams had 
been applied to her account and that the account had been correctly administered. It 
suggested that Miss O take the matter up with Debenhams if she still felt that there were 
refunds outstanding. NewDay accepted that it had given Miss O some incorrect information 
about a chargeback claim and offered to pay her £85 for the trouble and upset caused by 
that. I understand that, to date, Miss O hasnt accepted this offer.
Miss O wasnt happy with NewDays response about the refunds and brought the complaint 
to this service. She said she was entitled to the missing refunds as NewDay hadnt proved 
theyd been credited to her account or explained why they didnt appear on her statements.
During the investigation by this service, NewDay explained that there had been an issue at 
Debenhams at the time of Miss Os refunds which affected the way refunds were shown on 
customers accounts. It said that, although the refunds were shown individually on Miss Os 
receipts, Debenhams combined some of them when processing the refunds. So, the entries 
on Miss Os statements didnt necessarily match the receipts because, on some occasions, 
the statement amount may be a combination of two or three refunds. NewDay said this issue 
was caused by Debenhams and needed to be pursued with them. 
Our Investigator didnt think NewDay had done anything wrong and didnt ask it to do 
anything. But Miss O remained unhappy and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. She said that NewDay should provide evidence that each of the 33 refunds 
she was querying had been credited to her account.
I asked NewDay for the information which Debenhams had passed on to it in relation to the 
refunds. NewDay said it couldnt provide this as Miss Os account is closed and no longer on 
its system. But it said that all the 33 refunds in question had been processed to Miss Os 
account correctly and none were outstanding. NewDay provided a spreadsheet showing the 
refunds Miss O received, which has been shared with Miss O. She remains unsatisfied that 
the refunds have been credited to her account, so Im making a final decision about this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O has provided a good deal of information and raised a number of points for me to 
consider. Ive taken them all into account in reaching my decision. I know she feels strongly 
about this complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her. But I dont think NewDay has done 
anything wrong here, so Im not going to ask it to do anything. Ive set out my reasons below, 
focusing here on what I consider to be the key points from everything Ive looked at.
Ive considered the spreadsheet provided by NewDay. The transaction reference numbers 
from Miss Os receipts are shown against certain refunds on the spreadsheet. This helps to 
show how some of the amounts were combined on the statement. The transaction reference 
numbers for all but seven of the 33 disputed refunds have been matched to credits made to 
Miss Os account. Miss O says she doesnt think the spreadsheet proves that the refunds 
were credited to her account as there is nothing to link the receipt references to lines on the 
statements. She says, in effect, that the spreadsheet is just NewDays opinion of the 
situation. 
I realise Miss O is frustrated that she hasnt been provided with all the detailed information 
about the refunds which she has requested. But there is a limited amount of information 
available due to the status of the account and the amount of time which has passed. So the 
evidence is incomplete and some of the available evidence is inconclusive. Im looking at the 
situation impartially and making a decision on the balance of probabilities, with the 
information I have and in consideration of the wider circumstances. On balance, I think that 
26 of the 33 refunds in question were credited to Miss Os account as identified by the 
transaction reference numbers shown on the spreadsheet. 
For six of the remaining seven disputed refunds, I find that credits were made to Miss Os 
account on the same days as the receipted transactions for amounts which (when 
combined) are equal to the amounts of the refunds she was expecting. 
For the seventh refund, I find that there were multiple credits to Miss Os account that day. 
Two of those have been marked on NewDays spreadsheet as relating to this transaction 
and, on balance, Im satisfied that they do. Further credits were made to Miss Os account 
that day which were more than enough to cover the remainder of the refund in question. 
Miss O says there is no proof that these credits relate to the refunds in question and that its 
just speculation that they do. But I find it more likely than not that these credits do relate to 
the refunds which Miss O is querying. 
I realise Miss O isnt satisfied with the information provided by NewDay. But I havent seen 
anything which leads me to doubt that information. I find it unlikely that combined sums 
equalling the exact amount of the refunds due and credited on the correct dates are not the 
refunds in question. And Miss O hasnt offered an explanation of what these many credits 
are if not the refunds. On balance, Im satisfied that all the refunds which Miss O has queried 
were credited to her account.
Miss O is unhappy with the way the information has been set out by NewDay. But there isnt 
a specific way in which this had to be presented. And I understand the issue is (at least in 
part) to do with the way the refunds were processed by Debenhams. Im only looking at the 
actions of NewDay here, not Debenhams. And I havent seen any evidence that NewDay 
made any mistakes or acted unfairly. Miss O says that NewDay asked her to contact Debenhams directly for information and she 
doesnt think that was fair. But given the nature of the account, the queries raised by Miss O 
and the issue with the way refunds were being processed at the time, I dont think it was 
unreasonable.
Miss O has also asked for reimbursement of the postage costs she incurred in sending a 
letter to Debenhams by special delivery. I havent found that any refunds are outstanding or 
that NewDay acted unfairly here. So I dont think it needs to cover the costs Miss O incurred 
in raising queries or pursuing her complaint and Im not going to ask it to pay the postage.
Miss O says that she made an overpayment of £681.70 which is shown on her 2018-2019 
annual statement. The statement shows the total amount repaid as £681.70 more than the 
total spend on the card during the statement period. But that doesnt necessarily mean that 
Miss O has made an overpayment. For example, the amount repayable during the annual 
statement period could feasibly be more than the amount spent during the annual statement 
period if there was already an outstanding balance on the account relating to spending 
before the annual statement period. From the information Ive seen, I cant safely conclude 
that Miss O has made an overpayment.
I realise that Miss O has spent a great deal of time on this complaint and that it has caused 
her much stress. I think that much of this arises from the fact that the amount shown on the 
refund receipts didnt always appear as a single transaction on the account statements. 
NewDay has explained that this was due to an incident at Debenhams, so I cant fairly 
conclude that NewDay was responsible for any trouble or upset arising from it. In any event, 
I have found that there are no refunds outstanding and I dont think NewDay acted unfairly. 
So I dont think it needs to do anything to compensate Miss O, for her time spent in pursuing 
the complaint or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman