DRN-3946822
The complaint
Mr G complains Goldman Sachs International Bank did not provide clear information on their 
app in relation to his savings account. 
What happened
Mr G wanted to download a statement of his savings account. He couldnt find a way of 
doing this via the app, so contacted Goldman Sachs. Goldman Sachs told him that 
statements couldnt be downloaded via the app, only by logging in using a web browser or 
Goldman Sachs could send copies by post. Mr G was unhappy that this wasnt set out 
anywhere in the app or on their website. So he complained. 
Goldman Sachs responded to Mr Gs complaint. They said they had taken on board Mr Gs 
feedback, although they had no current plans to make this facility available in the app. They 
also credited Mr Gs account with £25 as a gesture in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused. Mr G wasnt happy with this response so referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Gs concerns. She said, in summary, it wasnt our role to tell 
Goldman Sachs what services they should offer via their app and so she didnt think theyd 
treated Mr G unfairly. She also explained Goldman Sachs had told us they planned to 
update their website to make things clearer. 
Mr G didnt accept the Investigators findings. He maintained the app should be updated 
either to allow customers to download statements or to explain statements can only be 
downloaded when logged in using a web browser. 
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, its not our role to say what services a financial business 
should or shouldnt offer. So while I understand why Mr Gs unhappy Goldman Sachs dont 
have the facility for customers to download statements from the app, this isnt something I 
have the power to require them to do. Nor can I require them to include specific information 
in their app or on their website.
I agree with Mr G that Goldman Sachs website doesnt specify that statements can only be 
downloaded when logged in using a browser. But Mr G was given the correct information 
when he phoned them to ask. Mr G says he waited about 25 minutes for his call to be 
answered though. Goldman Sachs paid Mr G £25 in respect of the inconvenience caused 
and have since told us they intend to update their website to make things clearer  which I 
think is fair in all the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Goldman Sachs treated Mr G fairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman