DRN-1436732
The complaint
Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint for the following reasons.
Mrs H ticked a box on her store card application form to indicate she wanted PPI. So, I think 
AXA made Mrs H aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it. Mrs H says she completed the form at the till in store with a queue of people waiting 
behind her. Because of this she felt pressured, and the insurance wasnt mentioned. 
However, I dont think I can reasonably uphold the complaint based solely on her recollection 
of something that happened so long ago. Particularly as it appears that she did select the 
PPI on the application form.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to her. While she says her partner wouldve helped if she couldnt work, 
that cant be guaranteed, because circumstances can change unexpectedly. So, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Hs comments,.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman