DRN-3317541
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about how British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under a boiler warranty.
Im aware Mrs G is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mrs G.
What happened
Mrs G had a new boiler installed by British Gas, which had a five-year warranty. A while 
later, a leak was found which was from the original pipework connected to the boiler. Mrs G 
asked British Gas to deal with this under the warranty. However, British Gas said the 
pipework wasnt covered by the warranty.
When Mrs G complained, British Gas said its engineers didnt find evidence that it was 
responsible for the leak. Mrs G repaired the leak but wasnt able to provide evidence of the 
work carried out. The warranty terms and conditions also said British Gas didnt accept 
responsibility for the cost of repairing or replacing parts of the existing system that later 
developed faults. British Gas said it had refunded payments for both the HomeCare policy 
and the Plumbing and Drains cover. There was also no payment made for the visit that had 
taken place.
Mrs G complained to British Gas again. When British Gas replied, it said it still didnt think 
the installation was a factor in the leak. However, it should have made better effort to identify 
the issue and provide advice. It offered £300 as a goodwill gesture.
When Mrs G complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint but said 
British Gass later offer was reasonable in the circumstances. He explained why he thought 
the complaint was within our jurisdiction. He also said he didnt think British Gas had 
provided the correct terms and conditions for the policy, which explained about existing 
pipework. But there wasnt evidence to show British Gass actions were the main cause of 
the leak. He said the £300 offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im aware that when this complaint first came to this service, British Gas queried whether we 
had jurisdiction to look at the issue. It has since seemed to accept we can consider this 
case. The Perimeter Guidance Rules (PERG), which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook, set out guidance on what constitutes a contract of insurance. Looking 
at the cover, this said there was no cost for the warranty. However, given there will have 
been a cost to British Gas for providing the warranty, Im satisfied there was financial 
consideration built into the overall cost of the supply and installation of the boiler. So, I think 
theres been consideration of one or more payments. The policy terms and conditions also 
offer a service which includes repairs. So, I agree with our investigator that the repairs Mrs 
G wanted British Gas to carry out were available as part of a contract of insurance.
British Gas said it wouldnt carry out the work because its terms and conditions had an 
exclusion that said:
Where weve connected new equipment to your existing system, we cant accept
responsibility for the cost of repairing or replacing parts of your existing system that
later develop faults...
Mrs G said she hadnt received terms and conditions that contained this exclusion. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions for the warranty and can see it has this exclusion. The 
warranty letter said the terms and conditions were enclosed and included a link to a page on 
British Gass website. However, this link was to the terms and conditions of its HomeCare 
policy. So, I think theres reason to doubt that British Gas provided the correct terms and 
conditions with the letter or that Mrs G was able to access these online following the link 
provided by British Gas. That being the case, I would be minded to say British Gas should 
carry out the repair. However, Im aware the repair has already been carried out, so there is 
now no purpose in me saying British Gas should do this.
Ive also thought about whether British Gas was responsible for the leak itself. British Gass 
engineers didnt find evidence it was responsible for the leak. British Gas also later reviewed 
what happened and didnt find any evidence the leak was likely to be result of its work. Mrs 
G was also asked to provide evidence of the issue found and of the repair carried out to the 
joint fitted, but Mrs G was unable to do this as the flooring had already been replaced 
following the repair. So, Im not persuaded there was evidence to show British Gass work 
was the main cause of the leak and that it was therefore responsible for the damage.
British Gas offered £300 as a gesture of goodwill because of how it dealt with some of the 
issues. Mrs G has said this didnt cover the costs involved to deal with the leak and damage, 
which were about £560. Given the issues with the terms and conditions and the confusion 
this seems to have caused about the extent of the cover in place, I think some compensation 
is due. However, I dont think British Gas needs to cover the cost of the damage. So, I think 
the amount offered by British Gas is reasonable in the circumstances and that it should pay 
Mrs G the £300 it previously offered if it hasnt done so already.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay the £300 it previously offered if it hasnt done so already.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. British Gas 
Services Limited should pay the £300 it previously offered if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman