DRN-3838336
The complaint
Ms K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms K was a victim of an investment scam. She was contacted by a broker claiming to work 
for a company Ill refer to as B who she came across online. The broker asked her to first 
purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the 
cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. Between 29 September and 26 November 2020, she 
made seven payments to two cryptocurrency exchange companies totalling £9496.46.
Ms K realised shed been the victim of a scam when she discovered she had a negative 
balance. She contacted HSBC to ask for help to retrieve the money and it requested 
evidence to support the claim. HSBC subsequently said it was unable to refund any money 
because it had been paid to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies who had 
transferred the cryptocurrency to Ms Ks online wallet. And when Ms K complained to HSBC, 
it maintained its position stating she hadnt provided all the information it had asked for and 
without that, the chargeback request wouldnt be successful. It accepted there had been 
delays in dealing with the complaint and credited the account with £200.
Ms K wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said she didnt have 
investment experience and had checked the company reference and registration before 
going ahead with the payments.
Unfortunately, our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
Ms K had carried out and authorised the payments. So, the starting position was that she 
was liable for them. Our investigator considered if there was more HSBC couldve done to 
prevent the scam, but she didnt think the payments were suspicious or unusual. And there 
were no warnings about either of the two cryptocurrency exchange companies with either 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or the International Organization of Securities 
Commission (IOSCO), so she didnt think HSBC had missed an opportunity to identify the 
payments were being made in relation to a scam.
Regarding HSBCs decision not to raise a request under Visas chargeback scheme, she 
noted the payments went directly to the cryptocurrency exchange companies and not to B, 
and as theyd provided the intended service, this was a reasonable exercise of Bs 
discretion.
Ms K has asked for her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman arguing that it should have 
raised a chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms K has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why.
Im satisfied Ms K authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Ms K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Ms K didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Triggers
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the payments 
were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, HSBC had an 
obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms K when she tried to make 
the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect HSBC 
to intervene with a view to protecting Ms K from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Ms K 
normally ran her account and I dont think they were. All the payments were to legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange companies and none of them were for particularly large amounts, 
nor were they out of character for the usual spending on the account. So, I dont think HSBC 
missed an opportunity to intervene.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Ms Ks payments when 
she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Ms K).
Ms Ks own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers to B. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Ms Ks 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision 
not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies 
was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Ms K lost such 
a significant amount of money. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBC is to 
blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman