DRN-1571861
The complaint
Mrs D complains that The Co-operative Bank plc trading as Britannia (The Co-op) mis-sold 
her a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 when 
she applied for a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs D took out a mortgage and PPI policy with The Co-op in 1998. She said she was not 
told the policy was optional; she felt pressured to buy it; she didnt need PPI because she 
had good sick pay benefits and a secure job.
Our adjudicator rejected the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again. She added again that she had significant sick pay 
and a stable job; her health condition was medically controlled; and she could rely on her 
family for support. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for Mrs D, 
so Ill explain why.
Mrs D complains she wasnt told the policy was optional and felt pressured to buy it. 
However, I have seen copies of Mrs Ds mortgage application. It has a box headed 
Insurance Details and Mrs D or The Co-op representative has ticked the Yes option for 
PPI. Mrs D signed the form, so I can reasonably assume she read the form and had checked 
the completed details. So as there was a choice on the form, I think The Co-op probably did 
make it clear to Mrs D that PPI was a separate and optional product.
The Co-op said the sale was non-advised, so it had to give Mrs D enough information for her 
to make her own assessment about whether she should buy PPI. 
I looked at her circumstances at the time to see if she might have found a benefit in having 
PPI. Mrs D would get sick pay from her employer, so she says she didnt need PPI. But the 
PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months in addition to any sick pay she might receive. 
So I think it was still a potentially useful policy and was of benefit to her. 
She told us she could rely on her family to make her repayments, but there was no 
guarantee she could still rely on this support at some unknown point in the future. So I think 
the policy was of benefit to her.I dont know how The Co-op told Mrs D about the cost and benefits of the policy, but having 
decided she chose to have it, I think any detailed information about cost and benefits was 
unlikely to have changed Mrs Ds mind about taking it out. 
I would also have expected The Co-op to tell Mrs D about the exclusions in the policy. She 
did have a pre-existing medical condition which is unlikely to have been covered by the 
policy. However, Mrs D confirmed her condition was controlled by medication, and she 
wasnt looking for or expected insurance to cover it. So even if she had been given a full list 
of exclusions, I dont think it would have put her off buying PPI as she was not concerned 
about being affected by the main exclusions.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
The Co-op said Mrs Ds credit agreement does not fall within these dates. So based on what 
Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the 
non-disclosure of commission apply here. So The Co-op doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs D paid for the PPI they had with her mortgage. 
Overall, I think the evidence suggests The Co-op probably did make it clear PPI was 
optional, and more information about it wouldnt have changed her mind about taking it out. 
So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman