DRN-2977573
The complaint
Ms M complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms M was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Loan Date taken Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan amountMonthly  
repayment
1 July 2013 72 £5,000 £194.41
It appears that Ms M ran into payment problems because it looks like this loan later 
defaulted.  
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ms complaint. She didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided the loan to Ms M and she set out the steps that TFS needed to 
take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said (Im summarising here) that:
defaults and a county court judgement were historic, 
Ms M had provided a reasonable explanation for the adverse credit history on her 
record, and
although our investigator felt that TFS shouldve done more checks she hadnt said 
what additional evidence would have been seen. TFS said it wasnt clear that any 
additional checks wouldve changed its lending decision so it couldnt agree to uphold 
the complaint.  
TFS has asked for an ombudsman to review the case so it came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Ms M applied for the loan, TFS asked about her income. After looking at her most up 
to date payslips, TFS recorded Ms Ms income as approximately £1,202 a month. It asked 
Ms M about her regular expenditure and after doing its own credit checks, and allowing for 
her spending on existing credit commitments, TFS worked out that Ms M should have 
around £750 in disposable income after paying her TFS loan. 
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. 
But I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Ms M based on the 
information it had gathered.
I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Ms Ms overall financial situation  and the likelihood of her being able 
to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
Despite the fact that Ms M had told TFS that her monthly outgoings were limited, 
leaving her with ample spare cash each month, I think TFS shouldve realised that it 
couldnt rely on this information because what Ms M had declared was significantly at 
odds with what it saw on its credit checks. TFS was aware that Ms M had a recent county court judgement as well as one dating 
back to December 2008 still outstanding and eight accounts were defaulted. Whilst 
some of these accounts went back a few years as TFS has said, the overwhelming 
picture its checks painted was of someone who had struggled with money problems  
and there was nothing at all to indicate that her financial situation had improved in the 
8 months or so since her most recent county court judgement. 
Given that TFS had found out that Ms M was displaying some potential signs of financial 
difficulty, I dont think it was reasonable to assume she had a monthly disposable income of 
more than £900 when she approached TFS for this loan. Although the loan mightve 
appeared affordable to TFS, I think all this information painted a picture of someone 
struggling to manage money problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that 
Ms M mightve had ongoing money problems. 
Bearing in mind also that this was a substantial loan relatively speaking for someone earning 
the amount of Ms Ms verified pay and taking into account that Ms M was signing up to pay 
the loan for the next six years, I agree with our investigator that TFS shouldve realised that it 
needed to carry out more in-depth checks to ensure that it had a proper understanding of her 
financial situation.
I agree that simply identifying a need for further checking isnt enough of a reason on its own 
for me to uphold this complaint. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would 
likely have shown.
Ms M has sent me a credit report and I've looked through this to gain a better 
understanding of her financial situation at the time. 
Had TFS done more in-depth checks, I think it shouldve seen that Ms M had taken out 
another large loan for £5,500 with another provider of high cost credit just 4 months or so 
before applying to TFS for this loan. It doesnt look like the credit checks TFS did picked this 
up, but thats not necessarily surprising. TFS will be aware already, I think, that it might only 
see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. 
Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference 
agencies. So, whilst this may explain any differences, to my mind, it reinforces my view that 
TFS needed to do more to verify its understanding of Ms Ms actual financial situation given 
what its checks did show  which I think was concerning.
And had TFS found out about this other loan, as I think it shouldve done if it had 
carried out a proportionate check, the fact Ms M was now applying for this large TFS 
loan alongside other expensive credit recently taken was a clear warning sign, given 
Ms Ms financial situation and her particular circumstances, that she was still facing 
serious problems managing her money effectively. 
Overall, I dont think TFS could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan 
to Ms M wouldnt put her in a worse position by increasing her overall debts. So I dont 
think TFS shouldve provided this loan. 
I have considered that Ms M put on her loan application that she intended to use this loan to 
consolidate a £4,000 debt  from another high cost provider and a student loan. 
But overall, I think the scale of her debts, including the recent £5,500 loan that TFS doesnt 
appear to have factored into its lending decision, compared to the smaller value of this loan, 
would suggest that Ms M would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. And its difficult for me to understand why TFS thought it was in Ms Ms interests to take out 
a high cost loan with it in order to repay a student loan she wouldve had to repay at a much 
lower interest rate and towards which she would only have had to make small repayments 
out of her income in any event. 
For all these reasons, I dont currently think TFS should have agreed to give this loan to 
Ms M and so it needs to pay her some compensation.
As Ms M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons will help TFS understand how and why Ive reached my 
decision. I would invite TFS to reconsider its position in light of what I've said.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms M is happy with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Ive heard nothing further from TFS in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Ms M in any other 
way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms M to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Ms M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
With this in mind, TFS should: 
add up the total amount of money Ms M received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Ms M made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Ms M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms M bearing in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. TFS should not pursue any 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off
remove any adverse information placed on Ms Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman