DRN-3667510
The complaint
Miss W complains that Qmetric Group Limited trading as Sure Thing! unfairly referred her to 
an accident management company following a road traffic accident. 
What happened
Miss W held a motor insurance policy taken out with Qmetric, a broker. That policy included 
added legal expenses insurance (LEI) cover underwritten by an insurer (U).
In July 2016, Miss W was involved in a road traffic accident, which caused her injury 
requiring immediate hospital treatment. Miss W didnt think she was at fault for the accident. 
So, while she was in hospital, she called Qmetric to make a claim for her personal injuries.
Miss W thought she was claiming under the LEI cover. She called the number given in her 
policy booklet but was put through to another company - an accident management company 
(A) Qmetric had authorised to handle first notification of loss calls on its behalf. Miss W was 
then referred to As solicitors (X), not her LEI insurer Us solicitors (Y). Ultimately, Qmetrics 
referral to A is what Miss W is complaining about  because she thinks all the issues she 
faced throughout the claim stem from this referral.
Miss W says when she called to make her claim she thought she was speaking to Qmetric 
not A, and she assumed shed be put through to her LEI insurers solicitors. So, when 
Miss W was referred to X, she thought she was being referred to Y. And because she had 
LEI cover, she thought all her legal fees - including a 25% conditional fee agreement (CFA) - 
would be covered by her LEI policy with U.
Miss W said she only realised U werent contacted and made aware of her claim in May 
2017 when an interim offer was made to her which mentioned a deduction for the CFA. So, 
in June 2017 X made a claim to U on Miss Ws behalf and asked if its legal fees would be 
covered by Miss Ws LEI cover. X received no response, so continued with the personal 
injury claim against the third party itself.
Due to the time that the claim was taking, and the disappointment of realising she wasnt 
dealing with Us solicitors, Miss W stopped using X for her claim and appointed another 
solicitor (S) to take over it. She also enlisted S to pursue a claim against X via the Legal 
Ombudsman (LO).
At this point X had around £12,000 of costs  made up of fees and medical expenses  it 
said it was planning to recover from the third party as part of the claim. It said because 
Miss W ended her agreement with it, she was now liable for these costs. S managed to 
reduce this amount to roughly £1,000. Miss W accepted this and the case with the LO was 
withdrawn because of this agreement between Miss W and X.
Ultimately S took the third party to court on Miss Ws behalf. This was because, while the 
third party accepted it was responsible for the accident, the medical costs claimed for by 
Miss W were disputed. Miss W won the case and was awarded a settlement which covered 
both her expenses to that point, and the further expenses needed to carry on treatment of 
her injuries sustained in the accident.
But S charged Miss W £3,250 for its services. This was made up of the £1,000 owed to X as 
part of the settlement agreed when S took on as part of the claim, and Ss own fee of 
£2,250. These were not awarded to Miss M as part of her court settlement.
Miss W thinks she shouldnt have to pay anything to S. She thinks this because she thought 
all her fees would be covered by her LEI policy with U and so wasnt expecting to have to 
pay anything for the services of a solicitor. She says she thought she was dealing with Us 
solicitors Y at the start. And says had she not been referred to A then subsequently to X 
instead of Y, she wouldnt have incurred these costs. She thinks Qmetric should cover them 
for her.
She also thinks Qmetric should pay for an additional £587 relating to physiotherapy which 
the court order didnt cover either. And finally, shes said the whole experience caused her 
distress in the form of realising she wasnt covered by her insurance and was potentially 
liable for a substantial bill following an accident that wasnt her fault and caused her 
significant injuries. And shes said the experience caused inconvenience in the form of 
chasing for updates and changing solicitors.
Qmetric said it followed the right process when it referred Miss W to A. So, it didnt think it 
was responsible for what happened after this point. But it did offer Miss W £50 
compensation.
Miss W didnt accept Qmetrics response and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. He didnt think Qmetric had done 
everything it needed to when it referred Miss W to A. But he thought errors were also likely 
to have been made by X and he didnt think it would be fair to make Qmetric to compensate 
her for these. Ultimately, he didnt think Qmetric were responsible for the outstanding costs. 
But he agreed the whole experience caused distress and inconvenience which could have 
been avoided had Qmetric done what it needed to when Miss W first called it about the 
accident. He recommended it pay Miss W £600 to compensate her for this.
Qmetric agreed to pay this, but Miss W didnt think it was enough. She acknowledged that 
errors by X likely contributed to the outstanding costs she was left with. But she thought that 
in the end, this all stemmed from Qmetrics initial error. She thought it would be fair if 
Qmetric contributed 50% of the outstanding costs.
Our investigator put this to Qmetric , but it didnt agree, so, the case has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, in part. In summary, Im satisfied the recommendation 
made by our investigator and subsequently accepted by Qmetric is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I understand this will be disappointing for Miss W. Ill 
explain my reasons.
The referral to A
Im not satisfied Qmetric did all it needed to when it referred Miss W to A. The Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says Qmetric needed to give information thats 
clear, fair and not misleading. I dont find it did this. The call recording isnt available, but 
theres nothing to indicate Miss W was made aware she was dealing with A in place of 
Qmetric and that she wasnt going to be making a claim under her LEI cover.
Qmetric is entitled to use an A to handle its calls. And A is entitled to refer customers to its 
own solicitors. But its key that customers like Miss W are informed about whats happening and at least given options setting out the advantages and drawbacks of each option 
available. In this case theres no evidence to suggest Miss W was given options, let alone 
informed about the advantages and disadvantages of the route she was taking in either the 
documentation provided by Qmetric or, based on the limited information available, in the call. 
I think its reasonable that Miss W thought she was dealing with Qmetric and then 
subsequently her LEI insurers solicitors Y. She called the number on her policy, and without 
clear explanation, I dont see why shed think she was doing anything other than claiming 
under her LEI cover. 
I understand Miss W was sent paperwork shortly after making the claim, which suggested 
she was claiming through A and not under her LEI cover. But, given the circumstances  
being in hospital with significant injuries - Im not persuaded this was enough to alert her to 
the fact she wasnt claiming under her LEI policy. And crucially, I dont find that sending this 
documentation makes this clear enough or absolves Qmetric of its obligation to provide 
Miss W clear, fair and not misleading advice before the referral is made. I also dont find this 
a failing to mitigate losses on Miss Ws part.
Ive also considered the fact that Miss W purchased after the event (ATE) insurance offered 
to her by X. Whether X should have sold this or done other things alongside it or in place of it 
isnt for me to comment on in this decision  its better considered by the LO. But, as with the 
above, it doesnt absolve Qmetric of its responsibilities and obligations under ICOBS, nor 
does it satisfy them.
In summary, I dont think Qmetric fulfilled its obligations when referring Miss W to A and I 
think this caused her significant distress and inconvenience. This is because she ended up 
in a situation she wasnt expecting and facing a significant costs she also wasnt expecting. 
And this was at a time when she was still recovering physically and mentally from a serious 
road traffic accident. And for these reasons I agree with our investigator that Qmetric should 
pay Miss W £600 in compensation. 
The outstanding costs
The core point of Miss Ws complaint is that if the referral had been better none of the issues 
that followed it would have occurred. Its hard to tell for certain whether Miss W would have 
chosen to use X or Y if she was given the option. This is easy to decide with the benefit of 
hindsight, but it isnt possible to know for certain what would have happened at the time. But, 
given the LEI cover was an extra, purchased in addition to her standard motor insurance 
policy, I find it most likely Miss W would have chosen to use it  given she was in a situation 
it was specifically taken out to cover.
I understand Miss Ws point that had she not been referred to A then shed not have 
outstanding costs and her claim experience wouldnt have been as distressing or 
inconvenient. But while I agree that had she not been referred to A by Qmetric, its likely the 
events that followed wouldnt have occurred and the outstanding costs wouldnt have been 
incurred, it doesnt automatically follow that Qmetric caused, and so should be responsible 
for, these costs.
I have to consider whether any actions, by Miss W or any party other than Qmetric were the 
cause of those costs. In other words, if the referral was the only error, and everything that 
then followed went as planned, and Miss W was still left with outstanding costs, it may be fair 
to ask Qmetric to cover those costs. But if other parties actions contributed to those costs 
occurring where they otherwise wouldnt have done, then I need to consider whether its 
reasonable to hold Qmetric responsible for those costs despite this.
Qmetric thinks Miss Ws decision to switch solicitors from X to S part way through the claim 
has contributed to the outstanding costs. It says if X didnt confirm whether Miss W had 
existing LEI cover in place, Miss W might have been able to claim all her costs back from it directly. X says it did ask Miss W about LEI cover, but Ive not seen anything to confirm this 
is the case.
Im aware too that Miss W has had an aspect of this claim considered by the claims 
management ombudsman (CMO). The CMO felt it was ultimately Xs responsibility to check 
whether she had existing LEI cover not As. I dont intend to make any further comment on 
this, other than to say that if X didnt do this, I dont think its reasonable to hold Qmetric 
responsible for it.
I dont think its appropriate for me to comment on Xs actions in this decision. But I dont 
think it would be reasonable for Qmetric to compensate Miss W for any errors X may have 
made or for what Miss W had to pay X. Especially when X has the opportunity to correct 
them itself and Miss W made a complaint about Xs actions to the LO and subsequently 
withdrew this after agreeing a settlement with X via S.
In relation to the physiotherapy costs not covered by the court order, I dont think it is 
reasonable to hold Qmetric responsible for these. This is because either the court decided 
they werent due as part of its order, or they werent submitted as part of Miss Ws claim. But 
in either case, its not something Qmetric had any control over or impact on.
In summary, I dont find Qmetric responsible for the outstanding costs. While they likely 
wouldnt have occurred had the referral been better handled, it seems there are other factors 
outside of Qmetrics control which led to these costs being incurred. Its more likely those 
actions that caused these costs, rather than the referral itself.
Ultimately it was Miss Ws choice to involve S in the claim, rather than ask her LEI insurer U 
or its solicitors Y to become involved when she became unhappy with X. At this point, 
Miss W was aware she wasnt making a claim on her LEI policy. So, it was her decision not 
to ask her LEI insurers to become involved at this point  had she done so she may have 
ended up with no fees to pay. Instead Miss W chose to involve S. And S is entitled to charge 
its own fees. What these fees are and whether they were made clear to Miss W or not isnt 
Qmetrics responsibility. So, I dont find it fair to hold Qmetric responsible for Ss fees.
And I dont find it fair to hold Qmetric responsible for the £1,000 S took on as part of settling 
the outstanding amount due to X when Miss W parted company with it. This was something 
agreed between Miss W, S and X which Qmetric had no control over or impact on. This 
aspect of the complaint would be better dealt with by the LO because it relates more to Xs 
actions than Qmetrics. Miss Ws complaint with the LO surrounding Xs actions was 
withdrawn following S and X agreeing to reduce the outstanding amount to £1,000. I dont 
find it reasonable to hold Qmetric responsible for this outstanding amount because it had no 
involvement or input into that complaint or the agreed settlement of it.
Putting things right
This claim journey has been more distressing and inconvenient to Miss W than it needed to 
have been. As set out above, it seems that not everything that went wrong during this claim 
is Qmetrics fault. And so it follows that I dont find it responsible for all the distress and 
inconvenience Miss W suffered throughout this claim.
I agree with our investigator that £600 compensation is a reasonable amount to compensate 
Miss W in the circumstances of this complaint. So that is what I require Qmetric to pay her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Qmetric Group 
Limited trading as Sure Thing! to:
Pay Miss W a total of £600 compensationUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman