DRN-3907970
The complaint
Mr O complains that BISL Limited (BISL), who sold and administered his car insurance 
policy, pressured him into making a personal injury claim and led him to believe the claim 
would be dealt with directly through his insurance, rather than by a separate firm of solicitors.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr O was involved in a car accident, for which he said a third party had 
admitted liability. 
Mr Os car insurance policy was sold and administered by BISL, on behalf of the insurer who 
underwrote it. It also included a separate motor legal protection insurance policy (the MLP 
policy), which was also sold and administered by BISL. The MLP policy was underwritten by 
a different insurer to Mr Os main car insurance policy. And his policy as a whole was 
branded with the trading name of another company which, however, didnt underwrite any of 
Mr Os insurance cover. For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to that company as ABC 
Insurance.
Following the accident, Mr O phoned BISL to notify it of the damage to his car. BISL started 
a claim for this. And it also started a claim for personal injury (the PI claim), referring Mr O to 
its approved firm of solicitors. 
Its the PI claim Mr O is unhappy about. He says BISL pressured him into making the claim 
and led him to believe ABC Insurance would be handling it directly, when in fact a separate 
firm of solicitors was instructed. 
It seems relations between Mr O and the firm of solicitors subsequently broke down. Mr O 
says the solicitors took court action against him to recover its costs in connection with the PI 
claim. Mr O says this action was unsuccessful but has left him with legal costs he wants to 
get back from ABC Insurance, which he says is responsible for dealing with the PI claim.
When Mr O complained about this, BISL said the firm of solicitors were its approved legal 
services provider. It said it would forward Mr Os complaint to the solicitors, since his 
complaint was about its services.
Unhappy with this response, Mr O brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it didnt uphold it. He didnt think BISL had pushed Mr O into making the PI claim and he 
didnt think thered been any suggestion ABC Insurance would be managing it.
Mr O disagrees. He says he paid his premium to ABC Insurance, was involved in an 
accident where the third party admitted liability and at all times believed ABC Insurance was 
dealing with the PI claim and were simply sub-contracting to the firm of solicitors.
So Mr Os complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Mr O made to BISL when he first notified it of the accident. As well as 
asking for details about the damage to the car, BISLs call handler asks Mr O how hes 
feeling after the accident. Mr O says hes been busy and hasnt really thought about it. But, 
on reflection, he says he has some aches and pains and his neck is sore.
The call handler says Mr O could look to recover any costs he has for any personal injury 
hes suffered from the accident, including costs like physiotherapy. She says Mr O can 
appoint his own solicitors to look into this but she recommends speaking to its solicitors for 
some advice. The call handler asks Mr O if hes happy for her to pass on his phone number 
to the solicitors and Mr O says Yes. The call handler says to tell the solicitors he has an 
MLP policy when they contact him.
Mr O says he was pressured into starting the PI claim. Having listened to the call, I dont 
agree. The call handler recommends Mr O speaks to an approved firm of solicitors but also 
says he could contact his own. I dont think the call handler placed undue pressure on Mr O 
to start the PI claim. So I dont uphold Mr Os complaint on this point.
Mr O also says he at all times believed ABC Insurance would be dealing with the PI claim. 
But ABC Insurance wasnt Mr Os insurer  either for his car insurance policy or the MLP 
policy. Rather, ABC Insurance was the brand name under which the insurance product as a 
whole was sold to Mr O by BISL. 
Having listened to the call Mr O made to BISL when he notified it of the accident and having 
looked at subsequent correspondence weve been given between Mr O and BISL, I dont 
have any evidence that BISL said either that the insurer who underwrote the MLP policy (or 
ABC Insurance, for that matter) would be dealing directly with Mr Os PI claim. 
Also, in my experience, if theres a PI claim, insurers will invariably appoint third party 
solicitors to deal with it so they arent directly involved in handling any litigation that may 
arise from it. 
While I appreciate the frustration Mr O feels because he thought ABC Insurance was directly 
involved in the PI claim, I think this is an assumption he made. On the evidence I have, I 
dont think its something BISL misled him about. And that means I dont uphold his 
complaint on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman