DRN-3199528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More
Th>n (RSA) dealt with a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W noticed cracking appearing in their sunroom and made a claim to RSA for 
subsidence.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and carry out investigations. The 
report concluded the cause of the damage was root induced clay shrinkage. It said a 
willow tree needed to be removed before it would complete repairs on the sunroom.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed the willow tree was causing the damage and instructed a 
surveyor to provide a report on the damage. The surveyor concluded while there were a 
few very small roots near the sunroom, the main reason for the damage was due to the 
construction of its foundation. It was recommended it be demolished and rebuilt. Mr and 
Mrs W therefore said, based on this the willow didnt need to be removed but thought RSA 
should pay to put right the damage to the sunroom.
RSA reiterated its position that it believed the main cause of the movement was due to 
root induced clay shrinkage  caused by the willow. It explained to Mr and Mrs W the 
policy excluded damage caused by poor workmanship or design, and the policy isnt 
designed to put right any issues that can be contributed to this. It also said that until Mr 
and Mrs W agreed for the willow tree to be removed, it wouldnt take any further action 
and would remove subsidence cover from the property going forward.
The investigator looked at the complaint and let Mr and Mrs W know he didnt think RSA 
had acted unreasonably. The investigator did however ask RSA if it was prepared to make 
a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs W for the cost of the tree removal. RSA agreed to do this 
but said it would only make the payment once the tree had been removed and the cost 
incurred.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on 10 November 2021. In it I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
I want to assure Mr and Mrs W Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points 
they have made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties 
have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by both parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied the damage has been caused by tree root 
induced clay shrinkage (from the willow). So, I dont think RSA has acted incorrectly by 
suggesting the willow tree needs to be removed and movement stabilised, before it will 
carry out repairs to the property.
However, part of the issue here appears to be the construction of the sunrooms 
foundations is inadequate and therefore potentially exacerbating the damage caused. The 
surveyor Mr and Mrs W appointed suggested the only solution to put right the damage is to 
demolish and rebuild the sunroom. However, I think this goes too far in terms of what RSA 
should be liable for. As this action would then also rectify the issue with the foundations  
something which isnt covered by the policy.
Given Mr and Mrs W dont want to remove the willow tree, which is their choice, RSA has 
a liability which it is unable to satisfy at this time. In order that this claim can be brought to 
a conclusion, I think RSA should pay Mr and Mrs W what it would have cost it to instruct a 
contractor to remove the willow tree and repair the cracks in the sunroom.
If the willow tree isnt removed, I dont think it would be reasonable for RSA to be held 
liable for any further damage it may cause or can be attributed to it going forward. RSA 
has tackled this by removing subsidence cover on the whole property until Mr and Mrs W 
agree to remove the tree, but I dont think that is fair. Extensive works have been 
undertaken on the main property previously which were not attributable to the willow so I 
dont think it is reasonable that Mr and Mrs W should lose that cover. I think RSA should 
reinstate subsidence cover for the main property, just not the sunroom.
I need to point out here that as always, RSA will be able to review and decide on what terms
it wants to offer insurance to Mr and Mrs W at the next renewal of the policy. My decision
isnt intended to dictate on what terms insurance can or should be offered going forward.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.
RSA responded saying it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs W what it would have cost it to instruct a 
contractor to remove the willow tree and repair the cracks in the sunroom. 
However, RSA disagreed that it should reinstate subsidence cover on the property, it 
provided commentary from its underwriter about this and stressed that it was its commercial 
decision whether or not to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to alter my provisional decision. Im pleased RSA has 
agreed to settle the claim in the way I have directed.
Ive considered the points it has made about its underwriting discretion, and I acknowledged 
as such in my provisional findings. However, I still think it acted unfairly at the time it 
removed the subsidence cover from the main property, for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional findings. Im also mindful of the industry guidance RSA should follow which sets 
out that it should work with policyholders to manage ongoing subsidence risk and maintain 
cover where possible. I still intend to direct RSA to reinstate subsidence cover on the main property at this point in 
time. Again, I will point out here that as always, RSA will be able to review and decide on 
what terms it wants to offer insurance to Mr and Mrs W at the next renewal of the policy. My 
decision isnt intended to dictate on what terms insurance can or should be offered going 
forward.
Putting things right
To put things right RSA should do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs W what it would have cost it to instruct a contractor to remove the 
willow tree and repair the cracks in the sunroom.
Reinstate subsidence cover for the main property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n. I direct it to put things right as I have set out in the 
section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman