DRN-2921135
The complaint
Ms F complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy with a personal loan.
What happened
Ms F took out a personal loan with Lloyds in 2005 during a meeting. At the same time she 
took out a single premium PPI policy to protect the repayments. The cost of the policy was 
added to the loan. This meant that interest was charged on this.
Initially, Lloyds said that it was unable to consider Ms Fs complaint that the policy was mis-
sold because she had raised it out of time. It has since dropped this objection.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms F disagreed with the
adjudicators view. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Ms F, but Ive decided not to uphold the
complaint. I set out my reasons below.
Ms F says that she didnt know that she had the policy. But I think that she knew that PPI 
was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen Ms Fs signed loan 
agreement. This has a separate section in which had to be ticked and signed if she wanted 
the insurance. I can see that it has been both ticked and signed by her. The agreement also 
sets out the additional loan she took to pay for the policy, and the monthly payments for it. 
This is shown separate from the amount of and monthly payments for the cash loan. 
Because of the time that has passed, I can understand why Ms F no longer remembers this.
Although I find it is likely that Lloyds advised Ms F to take the PPI, because it was several 
years ago, I can no longer be certain. But to be fair to her I have made my decision on the 
basis that it did. This means that Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the 
policy was suitable for her needs. As I dont know what happened during the meeting, I dont 
know what steps Lloyds actually took. However, by reference to terms and conditions of her 
policy and what I know about her circumstances at the time, I find that the policy was 
suitable for Ms F. I say this because:
Ms F was eligible for all the policy;
Ms F wasnt adversely affected by any of the main limitations and restrictions of the 
policy  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
At the time of the sale Ms O was studying and receiving a bursary, as well as being 
employed part time. She doesnt remember whether she was entitled to sick pay from 
her employment. And she doesnt appear to have had any other insurance or savings to 
help meet her loan repayments had she not been working. But, following a successful 
claim, the policy would have paid Ms Fs monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months, 
in the case of her having become involuntarily unemployed. In the case of her being off 
work because of accident or illness, the payments would have been made until the 
earlier of her return to work or the loan being repaid. These payments would have been 
made in addition to any sick pay and her bursary, leaving those available to meet her 
other expenses why she was unable to work. So, I think that the policy could have been 
of use to Ms F;
If Ms F had repaid her loan early, she wouldnt have been given a proportional refund of 
the premium shed paid for the policy. So, this made it relatively inflexible. I dont know 
whether Lloyds considered this or explained the situation clearly to Ms F. But I havent 
found any reason to think that, at the time she took the policy, Ms F thought it likely she 
would be paying off the loan before the end of its term. So, I dont think the policys lack 
of flexibility made it unsuitable for her. And I dont think she would have been put off 
buying it if Lloyds had clearly explained this;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies available in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that it was unaffordable for Ms F.
In addition to checking the suitability of the PPI, Lloyds also needed to give Ms F enough 
information for her to decide if she wanted to buy it. I can see that the loan agreement set 
out the cost of the PPI, the total interest charged on that part of the amount she borrowed 
and its monthly repayment. But I don t know what else Lloyds told Ms F about the policy 
terms. Its possible the other information Lloyds gave her wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. 
So having concluded that it was suitable for her, I dont think better information would have 
changed Ms Fs mind about buying it. I still think she would have thought it gave her valuable 
cover at an affordable price.
So, from my above conclusions, I dont find that Ms F has lost out because of anything
Lloyds may have done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully considered everything that Ms F said. Including that her 
parents would have helped her out had she not been earning. As we explain on our website, 
we dont usually take this into account because circumstances change  and such 
assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Ms Fs case to make me think its 
reasonable to take a different approach here. She has also told us that she received 
settlement in different claim for PPI mis-sale. But I must make my decision on the facts and 
surrounding circumstances of this particular complaint. And how another complaint was 
determined or settled has no bearing on that. So these and Ms Fs other points dont change 
my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman