DRN-2545062
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has declined his claim for a stolen
mobile phone.
What happened
Mr F has a mobile and gadget insurance policy with Amtrust which he took out in November
2019.
In July 2020, while Mr F was walking, the mobile phone (iPhone 11 Pro Max) was stolen by
someone who passed by on a bicycle. He submitted a claim for the stolen phone to Amtrust.
Amtrust requested information so that it could assess the claim. It said it needed the
following information:
Proof of purchase/ownership;
Theft / Loss Report: Loss certificate;
Proof of Blacklisting (mobiles / SIM devices only); and
Proof of Usage (mobiles / SIM devices only.
Mr F provided a lot of documentation for Amtrust to assess and after it considered everything
he sent, it declined the claim because he hadnt provided proof of purchase for the mobile
phone.
Unhappy with Amtrusts response, Mr F brought the complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint. He thought Mr F had provided enough
information to show he owned the phone and it wasnt fair that the claim was declined for the
fact that Mr F no longer had the proof of purchase information. Our investigator 
recommended Amtrust to pay the claim.
Amtrust didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a
decision. So, the complaint was referred to me.
I reviewed the information and issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2021. I reached 
a different outcome to our investigator and said I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. I 
invited both parties to comment before I made a provisional decision.
I said the crux of the complaint was that Amtrust needed to see proof of purchase of the 
phone to assess and accept the claim. Mr F agreed to the terms of the policy when he took 
the policy out in that he had the proof of purchase  amongst other things  and on that 
basis agreed to take the policy out. The policy was put on risk based on the information Mr F 
provided.
When the phone was stolen, Mr F submitted a claim, Amtrust couldnt assess the claim as 
Mr F couldnt provide the proof of purchase as he no longer had this information. 
I looked at the policy document and the relevant terms and conditions. They stated the
following on page 8:
Criteria: We can only insure gadget(s) that are:
1. purchased new or refurbished from a UK VAT registered (or the equivalent tax if
purchased overseas) company and supplied with a proof of purchase.
2. purchased second hand or gifted to you, provided that you have the proof of
purchase (which corresponds to notes 1 above) or a signed letter from the
original owner confirming that you own the gadget(s). The proof of purchase or
letter must include the following details of your gadget(s): a. either the IMEI or
serial number (whichever is applicable);
b. the make and model;
c. the sale price;
d. confirmation that the gadget(s) were in full working order at the time of sale.
3. registered and appear on your Schedule of Insurance.
Based on the above, I said Mr F took out the policy on the understanding that he had the 
proof of purchase.
Page 14 of the policy document listed a number of general exclusions that applied to the 
policy and where the claim wouldnt be paid. One of the exclusions stated the following:
General exclusions
We will not pay for:
.
14. any claim for a gadget that does not meet the Criteria as listed within the definition of
gadget.
.
Mr F provided all the relevant documents to show that he owned the phone. But even with all 
this information, the issue was that he couldnt provide evidence to show he bought the 
phone and had no coinciding information to support this. 
Overall, I considered that when Mr F signed up for the policy, he did so in good faith and 
confirmed he had the proof of purchase. At the same time, Mr F also accepted in the event 
of a claim, he would have to provide proof of purchase for the claim to be assessed. This 
was a key requirement and while I acknowledged he had provided everything else requested 
from him, not having this precluded him from making a claim and having it assessed. 
Providing all of this also didnt necessarily make up for the fact that he didnt have the proof 
of purchase of the stolen phone. 
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. I thought Amtrust 
had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and had treated Mr F fairly and 
reasonably. I thought Amtrust didnt need to do anything further. 
Amtrust responded and said it accepts the provisional decision.
Mr F responded and said he didnt accept. In summary he said when he bought the phone 
from Facebook marketplace, he had all the communication between him and the seller and 
that was accepted as part of the terms and conditions at the time. Mr F said hed, however, 
deleted all his messages and communication more recently, not realising he might need this 
to make any future claims. He did contact Facebook to see if the messages could be 
retrieved but this wasnt possible. He said he is aware now that he should have kept the proof of purchase, but he 
nevertheless provided more than enough information to prove the stolen phone belonged to 
him. He feels Amtrust shouldnt decline the claim based on small print included in the terms 
and conditions and if providing proof of purchase was that important, it should ask for this 
information upfront. 
Mr F said hed like a refund of the premiums hes paid since he took the policy out in 
November 2019 to July 2020  totalling £105.40.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr F said Amtrust ought to ask for the proof of purchase information when the policy is taken 
out. I acknowledge this but this isnt something Im considering here. Its also a commercial 
decision made by Amtrust which I cant comment on. 
In response to Mr F requesting a refund of the premiums paid, Amtrust has agreed to 
provide this on this occasion. Amtrust and Mr F should arrange for this and deal with this 
directly. 
The additional comments Mr F has provided have already been considered by me when 
issuing the provisional decision. As such, in all the circumstances of this complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from the provisional decision I issued. 
I understand Mr F will be disappointed with the outcome. But overall, Im satisfied Amtrust 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and in doing so, it acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman