DRN-3554336
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2017, Mrs F was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mrs F decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In May 2021 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Fs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs F to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding over the term of the loan largely through the Feed-
In Tariff (FIT).
Mrs F would only have to contribute about £30 per month towards the panels and this 
amount would reduce each year until they would be making a profit. 
Mrs Fs electricity bills would reduce. 
Mrs F moved out of the property in April 2018. She still owns the property, but it is rented 
out. She did not plan to do this at the time of sale and was aware when renting it out that she 
would no longer benefit from electricity savings. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs F or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mrs F and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
The salesman showed Mrs F information on a tablet and Mrs F signed the 
documents electronically. In cases where the client is not left to read any sales 
material independently it is the salesperson who controls what the customer sees. 
Mrs F was later emailed documentation after the sales visit has ended, but the solar 
Quotation is a very lengthy document containing lots of figures, tables and graphs, 
which is not easily understandable by all consumers, especially not in the face of 
having received verbal representations that the solar panels would produce sufficient 
benefits so that she only had to pay £30 per month towards the finance, and not 
having been shown the entire document during the meeting. 
The salesperson in this case made no effort to explain the documentation to Mrs F or 
ensure that she understood the contracts she was entering into.
We note you have also placed reliance on the fact that Mrs Fs signature is on the 
documentation and so they must have seen it on the day of the sales meeting. There 
is no evidence to support that the salesperson responsible for the sale took Mrs F 
through the documentation in any detail. In fact, Mrs Fs evidence is to the contrary, 
that there was no detailed discussion about the content of the documentation. It 
should also be borne in mind that the salesperson responsible for the sale is very 
likely to have been working on commission, and therefore had an incentive to 
encourage Mrs F to purchase the solar panels. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs F could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs F and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs F says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these , along with Mrs Fs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mrs Fs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs F was told that the cost of the system was £9,711.45. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,711.45. The monthly payment was £103.02. The total 
amount of credit is £9,711.45 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£18,543.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mrs Fs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,711.45, it would 
cost Mrs F more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the Mrs Fs recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs F could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs F could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £178.91, which results in an average monthly income of £14.90. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £103.02. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment 
less about £30 which she would have to contribute herself.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs F could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £317.28 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs F the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £862.91. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. So, I think the quote is clear that the 
majority of the benefit that could be expected was through energy savings rather than FIT 
payments. 
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs F entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £103.77. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £103.77, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs F could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. It appears that this table was discussed during the meeting, 
given Mrs Fs understanding that there would be about a £30 monthly shortfall between the 
benefits and the loan repayment. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting. I find that the salesperson went through 
the quote at the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the 
expected income and benefits and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs F was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 15 the overall benefits that Mrs F could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs F that the system would pay for itself by 
year 15, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs F. I have looked at Mrs Fs FIT statements and Im satisfied that 
the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
The CMC argues the benefits have not matched what Mrs F was told and so there was a 
misrepresentation. But the CMC seems to ignore the effect of inflation  with the 
assumptions shown in the quote being that the FIT payment and electricity savings will 
increase over time. Mrs F also moved out of the property, choosing to forego the savings 
part of the expected benefit. So, I am not persuaded by the CMCs argument on this point.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2017 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
this explains why Mrs F hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs F 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs F entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs F to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman