DRN-3189724
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Experian Limited suggesting his address to debt collectors when 
they were tracing someone.
What happened
Both parties are most familiar with what happened, so I will summarise things in brief.
This complaint revolves around a utility bill which two debt collection agencies wrote to Mr K 
about  one in 2020, and one in 2021. 
The bill was registered to someone with the same name as Mr K, at a former address of his. 
Mr K says that when he spoke to the debt collectors, it emerged this was a different persons 
bill and he just happened to share some of the same details with this other person.
The debt collectors had found Mr Ks current address when they ran traces with Experian. 
Mr K feels Experian were wrong to give out his address. He would like an apology, £5,000 in 
compensation, and for Experian to never pass on his details again unless theyre 100% sure 
the account relates to him.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that as part of the trace process, Experian just suggested potential matches and it 
was up to the debt collectors to check they were chasing the right person. They explained 
how Mr K could complain about the debt collectors if hed like.
Mr K didnt agree. He felt this was Experians responsibility. He also raised concerns about 
how this worked more generally in relation to data protection, and raised new issues around 
how Experian were still holding his previous address details. The complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that it would have been frustrating for Mr K if he had to deal with an account 
that wasnt his  not just the once, but twice. And so I understand why hes complained.
The thing is, this complaint has been directed against Experian, rather than the debt 
collectors who may have mis-traced him.
Experian only provided the trace service here, which suggested possible matches for the 
person the debt collection agencies were trying to chase. This is a normal function for a 
credit reference agency. It helps businesses in situations where, for example, theyve lost 
touch with a customer who owed a debt, or where a customer had a savings account that 
went dormant and theyre trying to give them their money. I dont find that Experian were 
doing anything wrong in offering this rather standard function to the debt collectors.
Given that Mr K apparently shared the same name and former address with the person in 
question, its unsurprising that he came up as a possible match. And Experian only put 
forward possible matches  they didnt tell the debt collectors who they should or shouldnt 
contact. Broadly speaking, it was up to the debt collectors to review the information and do 
their own checks to make sure they then chased the right person.
So I dont see that Experian did anything substantially wrong here. They were just carrying 
out a proper function as normal. It follows that I dont award compensation here. As our 
investigator suggested, Mr Ks complaint might be better directed towards the debt collectors 
instead. Theyd be the ones who chose which contact details to use and then chased him.
I understand that Mr K may be unhappy with the way this tracing service works more 
generally, and that he has general concerns about data protection. But were only here to 
look at individual complaints, as an informal alternative to the courts. We are not the 
regulators  I dont set how the financial systems work in general. So Im not based placed to 
address those concerns. Its the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who regulate financial 
businesses, and the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who look after data protection 
issues more widely.
Similarly, Mr K has now raised further concerns about the way Experian are holding his 
former address data. This was not part of his original complaint, so he would normally need 
to raise this as a separate case. But I also note that his points mostly revolve around data 
protection regulation. So it seems this would also be better directed to the ICO in any case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman