DRN-1849126
 
The complaint
Mr S says East Lancashire Moneyline (IPS) Limited (trading as Moneyline) irresponsibly lent 
to him. 
What happened         
This complaint is about one six-month instalment loan Moneyline provided to Mr S in 
January 2018. The loan was for £350 and still has an outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagreed saying Moneyline should 
have asked many more questions as he wasnt managing his money well at the time, and it 
should have seen that from the bank statements he provided. So the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyline needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyline should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyline was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Moneyline says it agreed to Mr Ss application after asking for income and expenditure data 
and after completing credit checks. And this information suggested that Mr S would be able 
to make the repayments he was committing to. So, in these circumstances it wasnt 
irresponsible to provide the loan.
Ive looked carefully at the checks it carried out and I think they were proportionate. And it 
verified the information he provided with wage slips and Mr Ss bank statements. I havent 
found anything in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a 
different lending decision.  
It was the start of a lending relationship, and I dont think it was at the stage where there 
were any indicators that the borrowing might be unsustainable for Mr S. Mr S has pointed 
out that he already had another short term loan, but I can see Moneyline considered this in 
its checks, and the loan had a small outstanding balance of £25. So I dont think that in itself 
should have stopped Moneyline from giving Mr S the loan. 
Mr S also points out that his bank statements show he was often overdrawn, but typically 
this was at the end of each month and for generally less than £50, never more than £100. So 
again, given the early stage in the lending relationship, I dont think Moneyline ought to have 
decided from this information that Mr S might not be able to sustainably repay his loan. I 
note from Moneylines contact record that it seems it was a change in his employment 
circumstances that started his repayment difficulties. I cant fairly expect the lender to have 
foreseen this. I note that when Mr S did explain that hed lost his job, Moneyline acted 
appropriately by suspending interest and agreeing to a reduced repayment plan.
Mr S also says Moneyline didnt ask anything about his health and wellbeing at the time of 
his application. But as this was his first loan, and its checks showed it was affordable I dont 
think it would have been proportionate for it to ask the breadth questions it wouldve needed 
to in order to get the level of information Mr S refers to. And I have found no evidence that 
he raised his issues with the lender. 
Overall, I think that Moneyline carried out proportionate checks and I havent seen anything 
in the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a different lending 
decision.It follows I dont think Moneyline was wrong to give this loan to Mr S. 
Demands for payment during this complaint
Mr S is also unhappy that Moneyline failed to suspend collections activity whilst this service 
was reviewing his complaint, as it had agreed to. Moneyline has accepted emails were sent 
to Mr S in error. To put this right it offered to remove the interest from Mr Ss loan account, 
using all payments Mr S has made since the loan was taken out to reduce the capital 
balance. It states this reduces his outstanding balance to £154.52. I think this is fair and 
reasonable, and I would urge Mr S to contact Moneyline to agree a repayment plan for this 
debt. I would remind Moneyline of its obligation to continue to work positively and 
sympathetically with Mr S in the discussions about how to settle this outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint, but it should now reduce his 
outstanding balance as it has offered to. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman