DRN-3504600
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) recorded markers about him on fraud 
prevention databases in connection with a mortgage application in his name.
Mr T is represented by a solicitor.
What happened
In July 2020 a mortgage application was made to Santander for £310,250 over a term of 25 
years. The application was in Mr Ts name. Santander declined the mortgage application.
Mr T says the broker hed used to get a mortgage decision in principle (DIP) made the 
application fraudulently using information (a copy of Mr Ts credit report) hed provided to get 
the DIP. 
Mr T has told us that he was introduced to the broker by people he thought he could trust. 
However, he never met the broker face to face  their communications were by WhatsApp 
only. He says he paid the broker £1,500. However, Mr T didnt get a receipt and he found it 
hard to contact the broker after a while. Mr T accepts he signed a letter he got from 
Santander that asked him to verify his address. That letter referred to a mortgage 
application. However he says he didnt see the application that was made and didnt verify 
the information in it  much of which was incorrect. Mr T says he was surprised to find out 
that a mortgage application had been made.
Santander have provided us with various phone calls including a recording of a phone call 
between it and someone saying they were Mr T, applying for the mortgage in Mr Ts name. 
Mr T says he didnt make that phone call. The person making the phone call said Mr T 
worked for a specific business. But Mr T has confirmed that he has never worked for a 
business of that name. Mr T told us that he works for another company in a different role to 
the one declared in the mortgage application. 
In November 2020 Mr T tried to apply for a mortgage with another provider and found out 
that Santander had recorded a marker about him on two fraud prevention databases (CIFAS 
and National Hunter) in connection with the mortgage application. 
Mr T complained to Santander about the markers, but it refused to remove them. So Mr T 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She didnt recommend that Santander remove 
the markers. She said shed considered the relevant documentation and listened to the 
phone conversation referred to above. However, she couldnt say that Santander had made 
a mistake when it recorded the markers.
Mr T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. His 
representative has said that Santander didnt carry out the rigorous investigation it was 
required to do before putting the marker on the databases. So Mr Ts complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that fraud prevention databases such as CIFAS and National Hunter play 
an important role in the financial services landscape, allowing sharing of information and 
assisting in the prevention of fraud. However, its important that a marker is only entered 
where it can be justified. 
Both the National Hunter and CIFAS databases require businesses to have clear, relevant 
and rigorous evidence of fraud before recording a marker. There are various fraud offences, 
but a common feature is acting dishonestly for financial gain.
Theres no dispute that much of the information given in the mortgage application (including 
the information about Mr Ts income) was false. So the question I must consider is whether I 
think Santander made a mistake when it concluded that there was enough evidence to 
support it putting markers about Mr T on the fraud prevention databases. As set out above, 
the nub of Mr Ts complaint is that he says he wasnt complicit in providing false information 
in the mortgage application.
Mr T has told us that he paid £1,500 to the broker and sent him a copy of his credit file to an 
email address he was provided with on WhatsApp. He hasnt been able to provide the 
Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the WhatsApp messages although he told 
Santander he had them when he spoke to it on the phone to complain about the markers.
Mr T says he found it hard to contact the broker after the first few conversations and that he 
was surprised to get a letter from Santander in July 2020. Thats because Mr T hadnt seen 
the application documentation and because he thought the broker would have needed more 
information from him to proceed with an application. 
Santanders letter began by thanking Mr T for contacting it to discuss his mortgage. It went 
on to ask Mr T to sign and date the letter to confirm his address and upload the signed letter 
to its Mortgage Application Tracking System.
I think Mr T should have known from the letter that Santander thought it had been in contact 
with him directly, and that hed made a mortgage application. The letter was clear that it 
wanted Mr T  not the broker - to upload the signed letter to its Mortgage Application 
Tracking System.
Mr T signed and dated the letter to confirm his address. He says he spoke to the broker 
about the letter and forwarded it to him as the broker had requested. Mr T didnt upload the 
signed and dated letter to Santanders Mortgage Application Tracking System himself. But 
as hed signed it I think its fair to say that he expected the broker to do that. Mr T didnt get 
in touch with Santander about the application until hed been declined for another mortgage 
application in November 2020.
Mr Ts representative has suggested that Mr T wasnt wrong to sign and date the letter 
Santander sent. He says Santander didnt ask Mr T to confirm that contents of the mortgage 
application were correct, and he has suggested that Santander should have sent Mr T a full 
copy of the mortgage application at that time.
Im not persuaded Santander was required to do that. I dont think Santander had any reason to suspect that the application hadnt been made by Mr T at that point. Mr T didnt 
ask to see the mortgage application before signing and dating the form, and he hasnt told us 
he asked the broker to see it despite thinking that he hadnt given the broker enough 
information to complete it. I think Santander could reasonably have expected Mr T to say 
something if he thought that an application had been made in his name in circumstances 
where he hadnt seen the application form or given his broker relevant information. Im 
persuaded that by signing and dating Santanders letter and sending it to his broker Mr T did 
what he could to ensure that the application progressed.
I can see that Mr Ts correct bank details (account number and sort code) were set out in the 
mortgage application. In a statement Mr T says the broker got this information from his credit 
report. But I cant see all that information on the credit report he has sent us. Im conscious 
that in an earlier part of the statement Mr T said:
[The broker] told me I could help me to apply for a mortgage and I provided him with my 
Experian credit report but no ID or bank statements - he told me to fill in the bank details and 
he would complete the rest.
Its not clear whether this is actually what happened. But I think its likely, on the balance of 
probabilities, that Mr T did fill in his bank details on the mortgage application form or told the 
broker his bank details so that they could be used in the mortgage application.
Finally I will cover Mr Ts representatives point that Santander would have realised that Mr T 
hadnt made the phone call in which the mortgage application was made if it had carried out 
the rigorous investigation it was required to do before putting the marker on the fraud 
databases. 
Im not persuaded that it would have realised this. Santander didnt have a relationship with 
Mr T before the mortgage application was made, so Im not persuaded it should have known 
that the person on the phone who made the application and said he was Mr T wasnt who he 
said he was. I can see that Santander acted after this to confirm Mr Ts identity. It sent Mr T 
the letter asking Mr T to confirm his address. As set out above, we know that Mr T signed 
and dated that even though he has told us he hadnt seen the mortgage application and 
didnt think hed given the broker all the information he needed to complete it.
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments very carefully, I dont think Santander 
acted unreasonably when it decided to record the entries it did on the fraud databases. I say 
that because I think Santander had a reasonable suspicion that Mr T was involved in the 
application. Theres no dispute that false information was given to Santander in the 
mortgage application, and Im persuaded that the markers were put on the databases 
because of that false information. 
It follows that I cant reasonably ask Santander to remove those entries now.
I appreciate that Mr T is unlikely to be happy with my decision, but for the reasons set out 
above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 Laura Forster
Ombudsman