DRN-2439647
The complaint
Y (a limited company) complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has 
unfairly avoided its motor trade insurance policy  so isnt covering a claim for the theft of 
vehicle.
What happened
In June 2019 Y took out a motor trade insurance policy with Haven, through a broker, and 
declared two years No Claims Discount (NDC) as well as no claims in the last three years. In 
July 2019 one of the vehicles Y had intended to cover under policy was stolen, so Y put in a 
claim with Haven. 
Ys broker asked for proof of the two years NDC, and Y initially provided information relating 
to a private car policy from 2017  which wasnt deemed acceptable by the insurer. Y then 
said that it didnt have any NCD proof, so told the broker that the insurer could increase the 
premium accordingly. Ys broker asked whether the policyholder had been uninsured since 
the 2017 proof it had provided, or if there had been any claims in the two-year gap. Y said in 
response it hadnt been insured for the past two years and hadnt had any claims reported.
On learning that the policyholder hadnt been insured for two years  which suggested it 
didnt have prior motor trade experience  Haven issued a seven-day cancellation notice (as 
it didnt cover that risk). But before the policy was cancelled Y provided evidence that it had 
held a motor trade policy for the last two years. The NCD proof from Ys previous insurer 
showed there were two open claims and that cover hadnt been offered at renewal.
In August 2019 Haven wrote to Y to say there hadnt been a fair presentation of the risk at 
inception, as the two open claims hadnt been disclosed. Havens letter said that had Y 
made it aware of the claims it wouldnt have offered cover. So the insurer avoided the policy 
from inception and retained what had already been paid towards it. 
Y complained to Haven that the two claims, while recorded under its previous motor trade 
policy, had been made by people it had sold cars to  and were still ongoing. So Y hadnt 
realised they needed to be disclosed. Haven didnt uphold the complaint and said Y hadnt 
fulfilled its duty under the Insurance Act 2015, so it was entitled to take the action it had. 
Y referred its complaint to our service for review. An investigator initially thought Haven was 
entitled to avoid the policy from inception but didnt think the misrepresentation had been 
reckless. So the investigator recommended that the insurer refunded the premiums paid. 
Following the view, Haven provided evidence from Ys broker that showed Y had said it 
hadnt been insured for the previous two years, but once cancellation was threatened had 
changed its stance. Havens position was this showed Y had tried to hide the open claims  
and the investigator agreed it was fair that Haven retained the payments made already.
Y didnt accept the investigators revised view, and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whether Havens decision to avoid Ys motor trade policy was fair and 
reasonable, I need to take account of any relevant law and regulations. Y took out a 
commercial insurance policy, so the relevant law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015 
(referred to as the Act for the remainder of this decision). It says that Y had a duty to make 
a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the cover. Which means it was Ys 
responsibility to tell Haven about anything that might affect the insurers decision on whether 
to offer Y a policy and on what terms. 
Y took out the insurance through a broker. While we dont have the initial recording of that 
call, Haven has sent the Statement of Fact it received  and the later email exchange 
between Ys representative and the broker. The Statement of Fact says Y had two years 
NCD, hadnt been refused insurance and had no claims in the last three years. Those 
declarations turned out to be incorrect, and Haven says that by submitting that information at 
inception Y breached its duty of fair presentation. 
Y has said it didnt realise it needed to declare the open claims. But Y had a duty to tell the 
insurer/broker about any material circumstances  so anything that might influence the 
insurers decision to accept the risk. The testimony Ive seen suggests Y knew about the 
claims at inception, and its last motor trade insurer declined to offer cover at renewal  
presumably because of the two claims reported towards the end of the cover period. So I 
think Y ought to have realised those circumstances might affect the risk rating of its next 
policy, and declared them to the broker when subsequently applying for cover. Im satisfied 
Y didnt do that  and the insurer has shown us that it wouldnt have offered cover at all if the 
two open claims had been declared. Therefore I consider there to have been a qualifying 
breach of Ys duty, and that Haven was entitled to seek a remedy against Y for that breach.
The Act says, where theres been a qualifying breach, the insurer can avoid the policy  and 
if the breach was deliberate or reckless it can retain the premiums paid. Haven has said that 
Y telling the broker it hadnt been insured for two years (after being asked for proof of the 
NCD declared), then admitting it had been insured when threatened with cancellation, shows 
Y was trying to avoid providing its NCD proof  as it knew the two claims would be shown. 
Haven has argued that amounted to a deliberate breach, as attempting to hide the claims 
shows Y knew they were something it ought to tell Haven about, but didnt  and I agree. 
Having considered everything, I find Havens stance on Ys failure to disclose the open 
claims reasonable in the circumstances. So I deem the insurer to have acted fairly, and in 
line with the relevant legislation, by avoiding the policy from inception and retaining the 
premiums paid. As Haven has effectively rendered it so the policy never existed, it follows 
that there was no cover in place when the vehicle was stolen in July 2019. Therefore Haven 
isnt required to cover any claim made by Y.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ys complaint about 
Haven Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021. 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman