DRN-2390433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out PPI to protect their mortgage repayments. The policy gave them
accident, sickness and unemployment protection. They paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr and
Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator but I looked in more detail at areas of the 
sale that remained in dispute. So I issued a provisional decision (an extract of which follows 
and forms part of this final decision) to give both parties a chance to comment. I asked for 
their responses by 27 November 2020.
extract from my provisional decision
There are a number of areas where the parties are in dispute about the details of the 
sale. I will address these first before looking at the merits of the complaint.
Date of sale  initially Nationwide said it was September 1991, but then said this was the
date its PPI policies transferred onto a new system. It then agreed it had to be earlier 
than this as a claim was paid out in August 1991. Mr and Mrs B said it was sometime 
between 1985 when their mortgage started and 1990. However Nationwide told us the 
policy Mr and Mrs B had wasnt available until October 1990 so it couldnt be before 
then. And it was likely to be then, as at that time they took out a further advance.
I know Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that this is incorrect saying they cancelled their policy 
in early 1990 after problems making a claim. But having reviewed all the available 
evidence I think its most likely the policy was sold around October 1990 and cancelled 
in 1994. I have reconfirmed with Nationwide that it has carried out exhaustive searches 
to confirm that Mr and Mrs B did not hold another PPI policy prior to this one. And it says 
that is the case.
The cost of the policy  Mr B says it was about £40. He has provided no paperwork to
support this. Nationwide has supplied systems records showing it was £24.51 at 
inception. I have found no reason to think these records are not accurate.
The benefit split  Mr B says the policy only covered him. At no time has his wife had
sickness and accident insurance. But again Nationwide has supplied systems records
showing the PPI cover was split between Mr and Mrs B 50:50. I have found no reason to
think these records are not accurate.
I do understand this will be frustrating for Mr and Mrs B as these details do not match 
their recollections. I have thought about their comments carefully, but I also have to 
consider they may be honestly mistaken given how long ago the sale was. And the fact 
they have, understandably, been unable to supply any documents to support what they 
remember. I know Mr and Mrs B also dispute that they made successful claims in 1991 
and 1992 but the balance of the available evidence shows its most likely they did as 
there are claims credits onto their account. Nationwide cant give any further information 
about these claims. The screenshots showing the cost, benefit split and claims history 
have been sent to Mr and Mrs Bs representative in advance of this provisional decision.
Im currently planning not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say the insurance was never wanted. I cant know how the PPI was 
presented to Mr and Mrs B. Unfortunately Nationwide no longer has copies of the 
paperwork from the sale, but this isnt surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it 
was. It says Mr and Mrs B would have been given a leaflet on PPI so they could decide 
if it was right for them. They were under no obligation to take it out.
Overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly conclude Nationwide failed to make Mr 
and Mrs B aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they didnt agree to 
take it. Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for Mr and Mrs B. But it did have to make sure they got all the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think they
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say 
this because:
-Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and
the policys terms and conditions. And it seems they werent affected by the main
exclusions and limitations, so I dont think they needed better information on them.
-Mr and Mrs B say had they been aware of the 90-day deferral period on claims they
would not have wanted the cover. But they had had good work benefits that would
have covered them in the short term and the policy offered up to 24 months
protection, so Im not persuaded they would have made a different decision with
better information on this term.
-At the likely time of the sale Mr and Mrs B were both entitled to at six months full pay
and six months half pay if they were sick and had savings worth around £1000. But
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any work benefits and for up to 24 months.
It would have allowed them to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst
not working, or to protect them for their future needs. The PPI would have paid out up
to 24 months redundancy cover in addition to any work benefits, allowing Mr and Mrs
B to protect any lump sum redundancy payments giving increased financial stability
at a difficult time. Given the consequences for Mr and Mrs B of defaulting on a large
and long-term debt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been
useful for them if they were sick or lost their job(s).
-I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Mr and Mrs B, but the PPI was
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And they could cancel it without
further cost if at any stage they no longer wanted it.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further information to add. 
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor their representative replied.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this one where there is limited information and where the evidence is
incomplete or contradictory, I reach my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In
other words, based on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and the wider
circumstances. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
As neither party provided any new information or comments, it follows I have no reason to 
change the findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. So I am not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman