DRN-2676646
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (Very) unfairly 
increased her debt after shed told it about her financial difficulties.
What happened
Miss C has a running credit account with Very which allows her to get items on credit.
Miss C had items on her account that accrued interest every month. Miss C also had items 
on buy now pay later (BNPL). 
Miss C contacted Very and explained she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Very agreed to set up a payment plan and gave Miss C the balance of her account, and 
Miss C says Very told her the balance would not increase.
Miss C then saw Very had charged further interest. When Miss C rang Very to ask why, it 
said this was interest from the BNPL items.
Miss C felt this was unfair as shed told Very about her financial difficulties and yet it was 
now increasing her debt. Miss C also felt this call could have gone better.
Very said it told Miss C that further interest may be added for any BNPL items and that it had 
supported Miss C by suspending interest on her account. Very also said that the phone call 
Miss C complained about was handled professionally.
Unhappy with this response Miss C brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and initially felt Very should do more to resolve Miss Cs complaint.
The investigator felt it would be unfair for Very to charge the full amount of interest on the 
BNPL items. Instead, the investigator said Very should only charge interest up until it 
suspended interest on the rest of Miss Cs account.
The investigator listened to the calls Miss C had with Very and felt that, although there was 
disagreement on the calls, the complaint handler at Very wasnt rude.
Very responded to the investigator to say it had already adjusted the interest, so the 
investigator thought Very had now done enough to resolve things. Miss C was unhappy with 
this response and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I wont be upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Very has an obligation to treat Miss C fairly when she tells it about her financial difficulties. 
Miss C says shed been struggling for a while with the interest, but once she told Very about 
her financial difficulties it suspended the interest on her account. I think Very has acted fairly.
Miss C says Very has acted unfairly because it charged more interest after it agreed a 
payment plan. But I dont think Very has charged more interest than Miss C had already 
accrued, and Ill explain why.
When Miss C added her items to BNPL they effectively began accruing interest straight 
away. This interest wouldnt be applied if the amount of the BNPL was paid off in full before 
the end of the agreement.
Verys terms state With BNPL, interest is calculated from the date of order and You can 
avoid paying any interest on your BNPL transaction by paying off the full cost of the 
transaction. But Miss C didnt pay the item off in full.
If Very didnt charge this interest then Miss C would have had the BNPL items entirely 
interest free, and that doesnt seem fair. Miss C was paying interest on the other items that 
werent on BNPL.
And Very stopped interest continuing to accrue on the BNPL items once Miss C told it about 
her financial difficulties. I think the interest was fairly charged, so I dont think Very needs to 
refund it.
Very didnt add the accrued BNPL interest until after Miss C had agreed a payment plan. I 
realise this was frustrating for Miss C, who wanted to know exactly what she owed, but this 
doesnt make the interest unfair.
Ive listened to the calls Miss C had with Very, where she set up the payment plan and when 
she rang to query the interest.
In the first call the adviser confirms Miss Cs balance with her and Miss C asks if further 
interest will be applied. The adviser says the only interest that would be applied was if you 
had outstanding buy now pay laters, that would go onto your balance at the end. The 
adviser doesnt say how much extra interest will be applied.
Miss C was aware she had items on BNPL. So Miss C should have been aware more 
interest was due. I accept Miss Cs point that she wanted to know the exact amount she 
owed, but it seems that information wasnt available to the adviser at the time.
Miss C spoke to Very after the BNPL interest had been applied to her account. Ive listened 
to the call, and there was clearly some disagreement between Miss C and the adviser. But I 
dont think the call was unprofessional or rude, I think it was just a difference of opinion.
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont think Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Very needs to do anything else to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman