DRN-4489522
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr D bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2016. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations of the installer (who Ill refer to as P) under the relevant legislation. In this 
case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr D into believing that the panels would be self-
funding, which they werent.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
15-year loan term. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Mr D agreed with our investigators view of the complaint, but Shawbrook didnt agree. 
Shawbrook disagreed for the following reasons:
Shawbrook initially wanted electricity bills to enable it to fully assess the complaint 
and while this has been sent to Shawbrook, it has since made no comments. 
It also added that P was unable to install an optional extra called a boiler doctor  but 
he was refunded £600 for this, and an additional £418.33 for the first 4 years of 
estimated benefit. It says Mr D accepted this payment in full and final settlement of 
his complaint. 
Our investigator replied explaining that without the boiler doctor benefit, the system was also 
still not self-funding so felt the complaint should still be upheld. Shawbrook still did not agree 
to our investigators view of the complaint. As the case couldnt be resolved, the case was 
passed to an ombudsman.
In my provisional decision of 6 November 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook agreed with my provisional decision and 
agreed to put things right. Neither Mr D nor his representative made any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. 
Mr D says he was led to believe the system would be self-funding and that the benefit 
received from the system would cover the cost of the finance. The quote provided by the 
supplier formed the basis of the sale, including the meeting where this was discussed.
Theres a section headed Repayment options with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows that Mr D is 
expected to pay £71.59 per month towards the loan. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £71.59, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
The table does appear to suggest that the system will provide a monthly profit of £12.11 from 
the first year  with the profit increasing year on year. This corroborates Mr Ds testimony. 
He says he was told the system benefits would outweigh the cost, which is also reflected in 
the paperwork. 
The credit agreement shows the total loan repayments over 15-years would amount to
£15,086.20. The quote included a table showing the annual cumulative benefits of the
system. By the end of year 12, (i.e. well within the loan term) the table shows the benefits 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
In light of this, it seems Mr D was told the system would be self-funding from the
start and would pay for itself within the loan term. I think Mr D, who isnt an expert in 
understanding solar panel generation and benefit, would be dependent on the sales advisor 
taking him through the sales documents  and he was entitled to rely on what he was being 
told and what he saw on the paperwork. And both his testimony and the paperwork suggest 
the system was represented as being self-funding. 
Based on the statements Mr D has provided, I think its clear that the system is not self-
funding. As explained by our investigator, the annual benefit for the first year shows the 
system benefit is significantly less than the cost of the system. Therefore, overall, I think the 
evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr D was not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and 
would equate to an additional cost for him. So, I think it should put things right. 
Boiler doctor 
Shawbrook has informed this service that at the time of installation, Mr D paid for an optional 
extra a boiler doctor to be installed. Unfortunately, this was not installed. P therefore 
refunded £600 for the cost of the boiler doctor and an additional £418.33 for the first 4 years 
of estimated benefit Mr D was expecting. It says Mr D accepted this in full and final 
settlement of his complaint in 2019.
Ive reviewed this case in light of the above, but it does not change my view of Mr Ds self-
funding complaint and Ill explain why. Mr D has not complained about not receiving the 
boiler doctor and appears to be happy with a resolution offered at the time which he 
accepted. This matter appears to have been dealt with several years after the sale and does 
not change what happened during the sale. I still think the system overall was 
misrepresented to him, and this needs to be put right. 
For completeness, I would however add the following. I understand that, as Mr D is aware 
that he never received a boiler doctor, its also reasonable to conclude that it ought to have 
been apparent to him that, he also wouldnt get the benefit associated with this item. 
However, even without this, the benefit Mr D was led to believe he would receive, still 
outweighs the cost, so I think its still reasonable for Mr D to have continued to believe the 
system would be self-funding. 
The first years estimated benefit is £1,001.62 but without the boiler doctor benefit, his 
annual benefit is only £905.62. But Mr Ds annual loan cost is £859.08 which is less than the 
benefit (without the boiler doctor element of the benefit). Similarly, in the second year, the 
total estimated benefit in the quote is £1,059.07 and, without the boiler doctor benefit, it is 
£957.49  which is still significantly more than the annual cost of the loan. 
As our investigator outlined, Mr Ds benefit for the first year included £241.40 in FIT 
payments and £129.50 in reduction of bills. If we assume the benefit associated with the 
remaining optional extras was achieved  this is an additional £230.40 giving a total first year 
benefit of £601.30. So, with or without the boiler doctor, the system was represented as 
being self-funding, and it isnt. 
So, I dont think the removal of the boiler doctor should have altered Mr Ds belief and 
reliance on the misrepresentation that the system would be self-funding. So, I still think the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Underperformance 
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 4413.92 kWh a year. And the benefits shown in the quote were 
calculated based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Mr Ds FIT statements and meter readings, and can see that the system, on 
average, has generated 3034.63 kWh. This is based on the most recent meter reading 
available of 19,953.78 kWh from September 2022.  This is significantly less than estimated 
by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system isnt performing as expected.
It is unclear why the system has underperformed. I can see the self-funding complaint was 
raised in 2020 and the FIT statements from 2019, similarly show the system had significantly 
underperformed. But no investigation appears to have taken place as to why the system 
hasnt generated the power it was estimated to produce although it doesnt look like Mr D 
realised this or raised concerns over power generation at the time. Usually, I would advise 
both Shawbrook and Mr D to investigate the issues now, however, Mr D has informed this 
service he moved out of the property in September 2022, so the system can no longer be 
inspected or repaired. 
So, in order to bring this matter to a resolution, I still think the complaint should be upheld but 
redress should be calculated with a slight adjustment to our usual methodology. So rather 
than using the estimated annual generation in the MCS certificate of 4413.92 kWh, given the 
system isnt achieving the estimated figures in the MCS certificate, Shawbrook should use 
the average annual generation as at September 2022, and assume the system will perform 
at that level going forward.  I think this is a fair way to put matters right bearing in mind the 
specific circumstances of this case. Summary 
I think the system was mis-represented to Mr D on the basis that it would be self-
funding and that hasnt materialised. Im satisfied that this amounts to a 
misrepresentation. So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr D fairly and he lost out 
because of what Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
I think the system significantly underperformed since it was installed when compared 
to the sales estimates and this should also be addressed at this stage. 
Putting things right 
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr D from the solar panels over a 15-year period, so he 
pays no more than that. 
I would add that Shawbrook should use the FIT statements and meter readings available to 
assess what benefit Mr D has received to date. As explained above, usually, we would 
expect Shawbrook to use the estimated annual output in the sales quotation or MCS 
certificate to work out what benefit the system would produce going forward. But given this 
system has never performed in line with the quote, I dont think Shawbrook should use the 
sales documents to guide future performance. I think instead, it should use the most recent 
average annual generation, and assume the system will perform at that level going forward 
and redress should be worked out on that basis. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr D is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr D by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, if the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Ds loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr D have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr D, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr D, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr D accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.If Mr D has since settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I understand Shawbrook has agreed to settle the case in line with my provisional decision 
and an offer has been sent in and forwarded to Mr Ds representative. As explained above, 
Mr D (nor his representative) have made any further comments. So, in the absence of any 
new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out 
in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision (and 
above), I uphold this complaint and Shawbrook should put things right as set out below.
Putting things right 
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for 
Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr D from the solar panels over a 15-year period, so he 
pays no more than that. 
I would add that Shawbrook should use the FIT statements and meter readings available to 
assess what benefit Mr D has received to date. As explained above, usually, we would 
expect Shawbrook to use the estimated annual output in the sales quotation or MCS 
certificate to work out what benefit the system would produce going forward. But given this 
system has never performed in line with the quote, I dont think Shawbrook should use the 
sales documents to guide future performance. I think instead, it should use the most recent 
average annual generation, and assume the system will perform at that level going forward 
and redress should be worked out on that basis. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr D is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr D by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, if the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook to 
restructure Mr Ds loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 15-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr D have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, C. the overpayments are returned to Mr D, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr D, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr D accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr D has since settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman