DRN-2870025
The complaint
Mr C complains about what happened when he asked American Express Services Europe
Limited (AMEX) to help him get a refund for a holiday which was cancelled.
What happened
On 28 January 2020 Mr C purchased a package holiday, for himself and his wife, with a 
travel agent, who l will refer to as T in the decision. The total cost of the holiday was 
£5,188.66 and was paid for using Mr Cs AMEX credit card. Mr C made two payments, which 
consisted of a deposit of £3,000 on 28 January 2020, and the remaining balance of 
£2,188.66 on 14 February 2020. Mr and Mrs C were due to fly on 25 March 2020.
On 19 March 2020, T contacted Mr C and explained that in light of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Offices decision to advice against all but essential travel worldwide, they 
were offering him a credit note to cover his holiday price. They said details for a refund 
would be provided when the credit note was issued.
As Mr C didnt hear back from T, he contacted them on end of March 2020. On 7 April 2020, 
T provided the credit note for the cancelled holiday and provided details for refunds too. On 
21 April 2020 Mr C wrote to T requesting a refund as he didnt want a credit note. On 24 
April 2020 T explained that they couldnt give refunds until theyd reviewed and assessed 
each booking. They said theyd contact Mr C when they were able to but couldnt guarantee 
when, given the unprecedented circumstances they were dealing with.
Mr C was unhappy as he felt T had plenty of time from when they cancelled the trip to 
undertake a review. He thought T's actions were contrary to their own terms of booking and 
said he shouldve been refunded within 14 days by law. As T had failed to provide any 
timescales, Mr C contacted AMEX and raised a chargeback dispute for both transactions.
On 25 April 2020 AMEX referred both transactions for a chargeback under the chargeback 
code goods and services not received. AMEX wrote to Mr C to say a temporary credit was 
being applied but this could be removed if the supplier sent documentation to support the 
transaction. AMEX applied a temporary credit for both transactions onto Mr Cs account on 
26 April 2020.
In May 2020, AMEX received documentation from T disputing the chargeback. T stated they 
were still reviewing Mr Cs booking under their internal procedures, and for customers who 
didnt accept a credit note, their booking would be assessed for refund eligibility in the 
coming weeks. T said that any chargeback attempt, in the meantime, would be considered 
an abuse of process.
On 25 May 2020 AMEX sent a letter to Mr C stating T had challenged the chargeback, so 
the amount of £3,000 would be re-applied to his credit card balance. AMEX didnt mention 
the other amount of £2,188.66 which continued to remain as a credit on his account.
Unhappy that £3,000 was placed back onto his account balance, Mr C complained to AMEX 
on 29 May 2020. AMEX acknowledged this complaint on 1 June 2020 and mentioned if Mr C 
had any additional documentation or information to send, he could send this by post.
AMEX issued their final response letter on 4 June 2020 not upholding Mr Cs complaint. In 
summary they explained the chargeback scheme didnt guarantee a full refund, and the 
chargeback had failed as T had said the use of any chargeback scheme, whilst the case was 
under consideration for a refund, would be considered an abuse of process. They advised 
Mr C to contact T directly to discuss refund options and stated the other transaction, of 
£2,188.66, remained open and under review.
On 5 June 2020, Mr C spoke with AMEX to raise a Section 75 (S75) claim. AMEX said they 
would send a S75 form out for him to complete but Mr C said he never received this. Mr C 
also wrote to AMEX twice in June 2020, in response to their final response letter, and in 
summary explained:
Ts holiday contract said they would refund any money if they cancelled a holiday 
without undue delay, but they didnt, and they also didnt respond to any of his 
communications
T was breaking the Travel Associations Code of Conduct rules by not providing 
a date for when a refund could be expected
the legal position according to the Travel Associations Code of Conduct was 
that refunds should be paid within 14 days, so T were breaking the law by not 
providing him a refund
AMEX acknowledged his complaint on 1 June 2020 giving him the option to send 
further information, but they had concluded their investigations by 4 June 2020, 
so not enough time was allowed for him to provide his supporting documents
AMEX didnt have the facility to receive documents by email, and two days 
wasnt enough time between the complaint acknowledgement letter and the final 
response letter, so AMEX hadnt done a thorough investigation.
the chargeback outcome was wrong, as not all the facts were considered
the suggestion from AMEX to contact the supplier had already been done and 
contradicted instructions from the supplier directly to not be contacted
by accepting what T had said, AMEX were also complicit in not doing what they 
were supposed to do
On 28 June 2020 Mr C said he phoned AMEX to raise a S75 claim but was told that they 
could not do this. On 22 July 2020 Mr C said he wrote to AMEX and made some further 
complaint points. 
On 28 August 2020 Mr C received a refund directly from T for the remaining £3,000.
As Mr C hadnt heard back from AMEX, about his dispute and further complaint points, he 
wrote to them again in November 2020. He also raised a further point and explained that 
AMEX had lied to him during the phone call of 28 June 2020. He said he asked AMEX to 
raise a S75 claim, but they refused and said they couldnt raise a S75 claim for him.
AMEX issued a further final response letter in response to Mr Cs concerns. With regard to 
the documentation Mr C had sent but didnt receive a response to, they apologised for this. 
AMEX said this was attached to the complaint under his old reference, so anything new 
received by AMEX wouldve been placed into a different worklist. As the worklist was 
considered low priority, AMEX said there may be delays responding.Regarding how Mr Cs disputes were handled, AMEX said theyd been investigated 
appropriately. AMEX explained they were bound by the terms and conditions presented by 
the supplier, and the chargeback disputes process was a customer courtesy, not a legal 
process. AMEX said if Mr C wanted to challenge the transactions legally, this wouldve 
needed to have been referred under S75. However, they could see that this had been 
requested by Mr C on several occasions. 
On 29 May 2020 although the option was presented to Mr C, he didnt confirm he wanted to 
raise a S75 claim, and a formal complaint was raised instead. On 5 June 2020 following Mr 
Cs request for a S75 claim, he was advised that his claim would be referred to the relevant 
team, and that a claim form would be supplied, but he didnt receive this form. And finally, on 
28 June 2020 Mr C was advised he couldnt claim under S75, and when this was requested 
in writing Mr C was advised AMEX was unable to issue this.
AMEX agreed Mr C hadnt received the customer care standard they aimed to provide. As a 
partial refund of £3,000.00 had already been refunded by the supplier on 27 August 2020, 
but £2,188.66 remained outstanding, AMEX said theyd refer this balance to their S75 
claims team for review. In terms of the poor service Mr C received, AMEX provided £100.00 
to his AMEX account by way of an apology.
 
When Mr C raised his complaint about AMEX to our service, he was unhappy with how 
AMEX had dealt with his claim. He wanted AMEX to cover the interest he would have been 
charged on his card had he not used his own funds to pay off the balance, wanted interest 
on the money he believed he shouldve been refunded and compensation for the time and 
trouble for having to pursue the complaint with AMEX.
Mr C also told our service that with regard to the call of 29 May 2020, AMEX said that if he 
wanted to go down the S75 route it would take at least two months and a formal complaint 
was a better option and that was why he chose this instead. In terms of the £2,188.66 
remaining outstanding, this was incorrect as the amount had already been credited to his 
account back in April 2020. Finally, with the £100, this credit was removed following his 
request.
When the complaint was passed to an investigator at our service, in summary, he said that 
by T providing a voucher and declining to exchange this for a cash refund, T was not acting 
consistently with their own terms and conditions. The investigator didnt think AMEXs 
acceptance of Ts defence to the chargeback was reasonable, given how long T already had 
to review the claim since cancelling Mr Cs holiday. 
The investigator also thought there were service failings from AMEX. They thought AMEX 
couldve done more with the chargeback by re-presenting the chargeback claim as there 
was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding. They thought the S75 claim 
couldve been raised earlier, that AMEX made a mistake of re-debiting one chargeback but 
not the other, and along with the S75 paperwork not being sent, the investigator thought the 
call in June 2020 couldve been handled better. 
But the investigator also considered that it was T that caused the initial delays and that it 
was also an unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, as the global pandemic 
unfolded, and so the £100 AMEX offered was suitable compensation to remedy what had 
gone wrong considering all the circumstances of Mr Cs case. 
Mr C didnt agree with the view. In summary he said:
Both T and AMEX broke the law as they shouldve refunded him within 14 days
AMEX lied to him on a call and he was prepared to get a signed affidavit to support this claim
AMEX treated him with contempt throughout the complaint process 
AMEX never tried to consider the transactions under S75 and did nothing to solve the 
issue 
£100 was not reasonable as it didnt consider the poor complaint handling procedure 
Mr C had experienced throughout the case.
As no agreement could be reached the case has now been passed to me to make a final 
decision on the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im also very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all 
the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In order to consider if AMEX has treated Mr C fairly here  I need to think about whether they 
should have done more to assist Mr C in getting his money back. That means considering 
whether AMEX did enough in respect of the chargeback process and, if their response to the 
S75 claim was fair and reasonable. 
There are different ways that a bank can assist consumers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case that is the AMEX card scheme. 
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for AMEX to ask for a payment Mr 
C made to be refunded. Those circumstances can include where goods or services arent 
supplied by the company.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is some prospect of success.  
When Mr C first contacted AMEX, they raised a chargeback for the two payments in 
question. In considering whether AMEX did enough in respect of the chargeback process, Id 
usually consider the relevant scheme rules. 
Whilst AMEX has provided the definition of one of the dispute codes, they havent provided a 
complete copy of their relevant rules and chargeback guidance, which AMEX can use on 
their customers behalf to seek refunds from suppliers, or details of things like relevant 
information requirements for the chargeback ground. In the absence of the full chargeback 
rules, Ive considered the chargeback rules used by other card schemes, as I think its likely 
that the AMEX chargeback rules follow a similar approach. 
I can see that when Mr C contacted AMEX initially about the cancelled holiday and not 
receiving a refund, AMEX raised the chargeback under the reason code for goods and 
services not received. Whilst its difficult for me to assess, for example, whether another code might have been more suitable, the key issue for me to decide here is whether AMEX 
acted fairly and reasonably in choosing not to pursue the dispute any further after the 
supplier had defended the chargeback.
When the supplier defended the chargeback, AMEX told Mr C the chargeback was 
unsuccessful and left it to him to contact the supplier directly to get a refund. AMEX then re-
debited the £3,000 transaction payment, but left the other payment of £2,188.66, as a 
permanent credit on his account.
In looking at what the defence to the chargeback was, T said for customers wanting a 
refund, their bookings would be assessed for refund eligibility over the coming weeks, and 
until that process was complete, any use of the chargeback process by the customer would 
be an abuse of process. 
Under term 8 of Ts terms and conditions, changes and cancellations by us, it stated the 
following:
If we have to make a significant change or cancel before departure, we will inform you
without undue delay and if there is time to do so before departure, we will offer you the
choice of the following options: -
i. (for significant changes) agreeing to the changed arrangements,
ii. accepting the cancellation or terminating the contract for the arrangements and receiving a 
refund (without undue delay) of all monies paid;
From the above, you can see Ts terms and conditions stated that for cancellations made by 
them, consumers would be able to receive a refund without undue delay. From looking at 
what happened in Mr Cs case, T cancelled the booking in March 2020 and defended the 
chargeback in May 2020. Mr C had been waiting just over two months for a refund by that 
point, and as T hadnt provided a refund, I think AMEX couldve done more here to help Mr C 
when T defended the chargeback.
I consider AMEX could have gone on to re-present Mr Cs chargeback claim, and had they 
done so, I think there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding. I say this 
because although the chargeback scheme is voluntary, this was a clear case of a consumer 
not receiving a refund when the contractual terms allowed for one. Mr C didnt receive his 
holiday, after the merchant cancelled it, and didnt receive a refund as per the terms of his 
contract, and so by not pursuing this further under its chargeback process, I dont think 
AMEX treated Mr C fairly.
Having declined to pursue the chargeback further, I wouldve however then expected AMEX 
to go on to consider whether a valid claim existed under S75 for the cancelled holiday. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that in certain circumstances the 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
But for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price, which I am satisfied exists here.
In terms of the S75 claim, I can see from what both Mr C and AMEX have said, there was 
initially a conversation that took place on 29 May 2020 about raising a S75 claim, but Mr C 
pursued a formal complaint instead. It appears Mr C then called AMEX twice in June 2020 to start a S75 claim. On 5 June 2020, he requested paperwork, but didnt receive this and then 
on 28 June 2020 he was told by AMEX that they could not raise a S75 claim for him. 
Whilst AMEX havent been able to provide the call recordings in question, in their final 
response in November 2020, they accepted that Mr C may have been given incorrect 
information over the phone about the S75 claim. And from reviewing the information on file, it 
seems clear that AMEX were in a position to raise a S75 claim when Mr C requested this in 
June. Its unfortunate that by the time AMEX reviewed everything and had agreed to 
consider a S75 claim, Mr C had already received a refund from T directly for the amount of 
£3,000 in August 2020. And so, taking everything into consideration I consider AMEX could 
have done more by raising the S75 claim sooner for Mr C.
In terms of other service failings from AMEX, I can see that they werent clear with their 
communications in what they had done with the transaction amount of £2,188.66, they didnt 
give Mr C correct information during phone conversations when he wanted to raise a S75 
claim, and they didnt always respond to Mr Cs correspondence or requests in a timely 
manner.
In terms of how to put things right for Mr C, I can see that he has now received a full refund. I 
can see the transaction amount of £2,188.66 was left in Mr Cs account, from the time AMEX 
initially raised the chargeback, so I dont consider there to have been any financial loss with 
respect to this amount. Mr C then received the other amount of £3,000 directly from T in 
August 2020.
I appreciate Mr C has specifically mentioned he is unhappy that AMEX didnt raise a S75 
claim when he asked, and he believes loss of interest should be provided for this. However, 
its important to note that S75 claims have different considerations to chargeback, and there 
arent any definitive timescales for how long a S75 claim should take to resolve. And given 
the impact of Covid-19 across all areas of businesses (which I have gone on to discuss in 
more detail further down the decision), I think its difficult to say with any certainty that had 
the conditions of the S75 claim been met, Mr C wouldve received the refunded amount 
sooner than he did. AMEX wouldve still been required to gather evidence, assess the claim 
and get in contact with Mr C, all of which wouldve taken some time, and so I cant say with 
any certainty that he wouldve received the refund earlier than he did in August. And for 
these reasons, Im not proposing that any interest be paid on the amount of £3,000. 
When considering what to award Mr C for the service failings, I dont doubt for a moment 
that this whole experience was worrying and stressful for Mr C. He booked and paid a 
considerable sum for a holiday, and from what hes told our service, his experience with the 
travel company initially when they would only offer a credit voucher wouldve understandably 
caused him some anxiety and worry. But in thinking about what if anything AMEX needs to 
do to put things right for the service failings, I have had to take into account that it was the 
travel agent T that caused the initial delay here, and not AMEX, when they didnt give Mr C 
his money back when it seems they shouldve.
And then, there was also the pandemic, and these werent normal circumstances. As the 
investigator mentioned in his view, the last year was an unprecedented and unusual time for 
the banks, dealing with significant numbers of enquires, claims and complaints from 
consumers as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up 
issues which were relatively novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, 
rules and guidance at a very unusual time. So, when assessing what if anything AMEX 
needs to do in this case, I need to consider the operational challenges they faced during this 
period. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration at the time it took to get his refund, and what he has said 
about the pandemic not being an excuse for how AMEX treated him. However, this was 
unfortunately an unusual time for the banks, and I can see AMEX also offered £100 to 
compensate Mr C for the delays and the poor service issues he experienced.
 
Whilst I understand that this might be considerably less than what Mr C was looking for, I 
need to consider whether the offer is fair considering the full circumstances of this complaint. 
All in all, it took Mr C around four months from when the chargeback was initially raised, in 
April 2020 to getting a full refund by August 2020. Given that there was also a pandemic, 
and a part of that refund was already in Mr Cs account from April 2020, I think £100 is fair 
taking into account all the wider circumstances into consideration.
In terms of other concerns Mr C mentioned, I can see that he has mentioned according to 
the Travel Associations Code of Conduct, a refund shouldve been provided to him within 14 
days. However, its important to note that the Travel Associations Code of Conduct is not 
implied into the suppliers contract with Mr C, so AMEX wouldnt be liable for a suppliers 
breach of the Travel Associations Code of Conduct. Whilst I cant hold AMEX responsible 
for the delays caused by T with refunding Mr Cs money, in my view, any delays caused by 
AMEX in respect of the chargeback and S75 claim has already been fairly compensated 
through the £100 offered by AMEX.
Ive also taken note of Mr Cs comments about how AMEX only provided a postal address 
and not email address when dealing with his complaint, didnt give him sufficient time to 
provide information between his initial complaint acknowledgement letter and the final 
response letter being sent, along with comments about AMEXs general complaint handling 
processes. However, taking everything into account, and what I have already said, I consider 
the compensation already offered by AMEX is fair in the circumstances and whilst I know Mr 
C will be disappointed, I wont be commenting on their complaint handling process further.
My final decision
American Express Services Europe Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited should pay £100 if they 
havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman