DRN-2766353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) continued to 
charge them the monthly fee for their Reward Platinum account during the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B hold a joint Reward Platinum account with RBS. The account attracts a 
monthly £21 fee. In return it offers a range of benefits such as car breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance and worldwide travel insurance.
 
Mr and Mrs B say RBS should have suspended the monthly account fee for their Reward 
Platinum account as they havent been able to use the benefits due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to RBS in February 2020. RBS responded saying that it was not 
going to suspend the accounts fees for the Reward Platinum account and if Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to, they could downgrade their account to a fee-free account online. RBS also 
credited Mr and Mrs B with £100 (the equivalent of five months of account fees). 
It said that the Reward Platinum account comes with a range of benefits, not all of which 
were affected by the pandemic and some customers would be relying on benefits which 
could be used. Unhappy with RBS response, Mr and Mrs B referred the complaint to this 
service. One of our adjudicators investigated it but concluded that RBS hadnt acted unfairly. 
So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this outcome and they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. They believe they should be offered further compensation of £5,000 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by this matter. So, the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
I note Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the service that they received when they tried to 
recover an additional premium that they paid under the travel insurance policy. I should 
highlight that this is a matter between the insurer and themselves. So if they still are 
unhappy with the resolution of that issue, they would need to direct their concerns to the 
insurance provider who they paid the premium to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that RBS needs to do anything more than what it has already 
done. Let me explain why. 
The decision by RBS not to freeze the packaged account fees for all customers was a 
commercial decision that it was entitled to make and is not something I can comment on. It 
did though need to explain this clearly to Mr and Mrs B and set out their options going 
forward. I can see in the final response from RBS it explained that the account fees would 
not be frozen and that it was up to Mr and Mrs B to decide whether to continue to pay for the 
account or cancel it if they preferred to do so. It also highlighted that the account could be 
cancelled online.
 
So after this point it was for Mr and Mrs B to downgrade their account if they wished to do 
so. Therefore I think it would be inappropriate to ask RBS to refund account fees when Mr 
and Mrs B actively chose to keep paying them.
I understand that this may have been inconvenient for Mr and Mr B. And I can understand 
how frustrating that it must have been to not be able to use services that they were paying 
for. That said I think the £100 which they were credited with is sufficient for the 
inconvenience of having to downgrade their account if they wished to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman