DRN-4219924
The complaint
Miss W complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) irresponsibly 
lent to her. 
What happened
A summary of her borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date number 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 03/08/2022 24/11/2022 3 £100.26
2 £500.00 20/01/2023 outstanding  12 £120.41
Each loan was structured so that each payment subsequent from the first decreased in value 
through the life of the loan. 
Following Miss Ws complaint Mr Lender wrote to her in April 2023 to explain it wasnt going 
to uphold her complaint about irresponsible lending because it had carried out proportionate 
checks. The final response also said Miss Ws account is currently on hold.  Unhappy with 
this response, Miss W referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint, and she didnt uphold it because she said 
Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks which showed each loan was affordable. 
She also said that Miss W had made a number of other points including the way in which 
Mr Lender contacted her and not being able to log into her online portal. But she couldnt 
consider these points because Mr Lender wanted an opportunity to investigate those matters 
first  so she directed Miss W to contact Mr Lender to take those complaint points forward. 
Miss W didnt agree saying she was only concerned about the second loan because at the 
time she applied for it she wasnt working full time and Mr Lender shouldve asked for up to 
date details of her income. She also said at the same time when was paying Mr Lender she 
had another outstanding loan. Finally, Miss W also provided copy bank statements and a 
copy of her credit file. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Ws complaint because there were only two loans and I agree. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
Firstly, I want to reiterate what the adjudicator said in her assessment and in her emails to 
Miss W after the assessment. Mr Lender has requested, as it is entitled to, time to 
investigate Miss Ws concerns about how she was treated while her complaint was being 
investigated and her not being able to access her account. 
If Miss W hasnt already done so, she may wish to contact Mr Lender to raise these 
concerns directly with it. I will not be commenting on any additional complaint points  this 
decision solely focuses on whether Mr Lender did all it ought to have done before it 
advanced her final loan as this is the one Miss W has concerns about. 
For loan 2, Mr Lender asked Miss W to declare her income and expenditure details and it 
also carried out a credit search. Having thought about these checks Im satisfied they were 
proportionate, and the checks showed the loan to be potentially affordable. Ive explained 
why below. 
Miss W declared her monthly income to be £2,064 when loan 2 was advanced and this was 
checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. Miss W also declared monthly 
outgoings of £1,724. Miss W therefore declared a sufficient amount of disposable income for 
this loan to enable Mr Lender to reasonably believe she could afford the repayments she 
was committed to making. For loan 2, Mr Lenders affordability assessment of the amount of income and expenditure 
differed from the information it gathered at loan 1. This would suggest that different amounts 
were provided by Miss W and / or it made different adjustments to these figures following the 
further checks that I will mention below. 
Miss W has said at the time this loan was granted she was working part time and only 8 
hours per week  her situation had materially changed since loan 1 because at that time 
Miss W said she was working full time. However, that information wasnt reflected in what it 
appears she told Mr Lender when she applied for loan 2, and it also doesnt appear to have 
been reflected in the results of the checks that Mr Lender conducted. 
So, Mr Lender didnt know that she wasnt working full time and importantly, at this point in 
the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for it to have relied on what Miss W 
declared without the need to ask for evidence of her income such as through a payslip or by 
using her copy bank statements. It was reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on the 
income figure I mentioned above. 
Before the loan was approved Mr Lender also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks or to raise any concerns. It knew Miss W wasnt 
insolvent either through an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court 
Judgement within the three years preceding the loan. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest Miss W didnt have any other outstanding 
payday loans when it granted loan 2. Again, Mr Lender could only make its decision based 
on the information provided and it hadnt yet reached the point in the relationship where 
Mr Lender needed to check this any further. 
There were also no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Miss W was in 
financial difficulties, was having problems managing her existing credit commitments or had 
unsustainable levels of debt. 
I appreciate Miss W has provided copy bank statements, but for her second loan where the 
checks carried out were proportionate and showed she could afford the repayments I dont 
think Mr Lender needed to view or check her bank statements. To do so, wouldve been 
disproportionate to the circumstances. 
Overall, proportionate checks were conducted by Mr Lender before loan 2 was approved 
which showed Miss W could potentially afford the repayments and Im satisfied it was 
entitled to rely on the information Miss W declared about her income and expenditure. There 
also wasnt anything else to suggest the loan was either unaffordable or unsustainable for 
her. 
So, I dont think Mr Lender did anything wrong when it approved the loan for Miss W and it 
therefore follows, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman