DRN-3891964
The complaint
Mrs S estate complains about the sale of a lifetime mortgage by Cavendish Property 
Investments Ltd (Cavendish).
What happened
Mrs S got a lifetime mortgage with Cavendish in 2008. She borrowed £21,600 upfront, and 
more money in 2010. 
Mrs S estate is represented by a solicitor that Ill refer to as W. W says the mortgage 
wasnt suitable for the late Mrs S circumstances and needs. It says the mortgage was mis-
sold, so the estate has suffered a financial loss.
Cavendish said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. She didnt think Cavendish had done anything wrong 
either. Mrs S estate remained unhappy. W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. W raised a number of other points Ive 
considered below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld either. Ill explain why.
Its clear from the points W has raised that Mrs S estate thinks Cavendish sold Mrs S an 
unsuitable lifetime mortgage that wasnt in her best interests and eroded the value of her 
estate.
Ill start by saying that this type of mortgage provides that no repayments are made, and 
interest rolls up over the years. As a result, the amount the debt has increased to can 
sometimes come as a shock to family members as it appears to have done in this case. But 
that doesnt mean the consumer that took out the mortgage  Mrs S  didnt understand the 
consequences of the interest roll up and wasnt happy to agree to it at the time. 
This was Mrs S property. If she wanted to use the equity in her home to improve her quality 
of life, it would be highly inappropriate for me to say that she shouldnt have been allowed to 
do so.
Ive considered what Cavendish has told us about what happened around the time of the 
sale and the relevant documentation. Cavendish has provided evidence to show that Mrs S 
first contacted it in November 2007 when she was considering a lifetime mortgage as a way 
to raise money to clear her debts. It says that after some initial discussions with an adviser 
Mrs S said she wanted time to think things over and that shed re-establish contact if she 
decided to move forward. The late Mrs S did that in March 2008. 
W thinks the fact that Mrs S paused the process after she initially contacted Cavendish 
suggests that she was very unsure about releasing equity from her property and would have 
not proceeded if shed been given the information she needed to make an informed decision. 
But Im not persuaded by that. I think its likely that the late Mrs S contacted Cavendish again 
in March 2008 because she remained interested in the product and had taken the time she 
needed to think about whether it was right for her. I also think its likely that she would have 
explored other options for meeting her needs around this time too.
After Mrs S got back in contact with Cavendish in March 2008 it says it spoke to her on the 
phone and the fact find document was prepared for her. The document said that Mrs S was 
60 years old and unemployed. She had secured debts of £1,386 and a personal loan of 
£4,000. The monthly payments on her debts totalled £122.63. Mrs S monthly income was 
recorded as £516. It says she had no disposable income at the end of each month and that 
she was looking to clear her debts. It also records that the late Mrs S wanted to upgrade her 
kitchen and refurbish her home  something she didnt have the money to do at the time. 
The fact find document also said that the late Mrs S said she didnt want to downsize or 
ask her family for help. She said she didnt have any assets and wasnt expecting her 
situation to improve in the future. The document says the late Mrs S also wanted a 
drawdown facility that she could access in future years.
I cant be certain exactly what was discussed around the time of the sale. But I think the fact 
find document sets out a clear picture of Mrs S financial circumstances at the time, and why 
she wanted the mortgage. 
Cavendish has provided evidence to show that it initially recommended a product with a 
lender that required a structural valuation of Mrs S property. However, Mrs S thought that 
was unnecessary and chose another lender.
I can see that the fact find and mortgage illustration was provided to Mrs S before she 
entered into the mortgage. So Im satisfied that the mortgage costs (including the interest 
rate and an illustration of how that would compound over time) were provided to Mrs S 
before she took out the lifetime mortgage in 2008. It follows that I think Mrs S was in a 
position to complain about the mortgage at the time if she didnt think it was right for her. But 
she didnt do that.
W has said that it doesnt think that Cavendish did enough to explore different options for 
funding Mrs S expenses and that the advice provided by Cavendish was limited, generic, 
and lacking in detail. It has said that the personalised recommendation was limited to two 
paragraphs on page 10, and that the report didnt fully explain the risks and possible 
consequences of releasing equity. 
Ive considered the personalised recommendation and Cavendishs notes of its contact with 
Mrs S. I can see that the adviser and Mrs S discussed other ways of raising the money. She 
didnt want to sell her property and she didnt want to make monthly repayments because 
she didnt want to reduce her standard of living. Mrs S was on means tested benefits, wasnt 
working and had debts she wanted to repay. So I think, based on what 
Mrs S told the adviser about her circumstances and what she wanted the money for, the 
adviser made a suitable recommendation. She had a credible need for the money and no 
other way of raising it. The adviser explained how the mortgage worked. So Im persuaded 
Mrs S was able to make an informed decision about whether to proceed. Theres no 
suggestion that she wasnt able to make her own decisions about her affairs at the time.
I can also see that Mrs S got legal advice before they took out the mortgage. W has said that 
the relevant solicitor would have been prohibited from providing financial advice on whether the mortgage was suitable for her. That might well have been the case, but the solicitor 
would have ensured that Mrs S understood the terms of the mortgage before she entered 
into it and checked to make sure that she wanted to enter into it. 
Im conscious that Mrs S estate will be very disappointed by the outcome of this decision. 
However, having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that the advice and 
recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman