DRN-2435195
The complaint
Mrs and Mr K complain that the information registered by Barclays Bank UK PLC with the 
land registry in relation to their mortgage account is incorrect.
What happened
Mrs and Mr K took out a mortgage with Barclays on their home in January 2020. The 
mortgage offer, and terms, set out details of the borrowing. They explain that Barclays is not 
obliged to provide any further borrowing, on top of the agreed mortgage. Any applications for 
additional borrowing, which could still be made, would be subject to underwriting.
A charge was registered against Mrs and Mr Ks property with the land registry by Barclays 
in respect of the borrowing. Mrs and Mr K say the wording of this charge indicates Barclays 
is obliged to provide further borrowing.
Mrs and Mr K complained to Barclays about this. They said that they understood and accept 
that the terms of the original mortgage confirm that there is no obligation on Barclays to 
provide further borrowing. Because of that though, they think the wording recorded with the 
land registry is incorrect and needs to be amended.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said the terms of the mortgage do confirm that it is 
not obliged to provide further lending and that is correct. But it said the wording used when 
recording the charge with the land registry was used correctly as it is intended to cover 
situations where further borrowing was granted, on application. 
Mrs and Mr K asked our service to look into the complaint. An investigator considered 
matters but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong or that the wording needed to be 
changed.
Mrs and Mr K did not agree. They said theyd taken advice from a solicitor that had said they 
felt the wording was not necessary.
The investigator considered matters again, but their opinion remained unchanged. They 
explained that the decision to use the disputed wording in the charge was a matter of 
Barclays discretion. And in any event, although they were unhappy with the wording, he 
couldnt see that it had caused Mrs and Mr K any loss.
Mrs and Mr K remained unhappy with the investigators findings, as a result the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr K have a mortgage with Barclays. That mortgage is secured against their home, 
which is confirmed by way of a charge recorded with the land registry. All the parties agree 
on these points and that Barclays has acted correctly by registering a charge with the land 
registry.
Mrs and Mr Ks mortgage offer, and its terms and conditions, confirm that Barclays is not 
obliged to provide any additional borrowing. It can do so if it chooses but will only consider 
this after assessing any application in line with its lending criteria in force at the time. And 
again, all parties accept this as being correct.
The dispute comes from the wording used by Barclays in the charge recorded with the land 
registry. Specifically, that it mentions that Barclays is under an obligation to make further 
advances. Mrs and Mr K say this is misleading and incorrect. Barclays says that this 
wording is used for all of its customers and it is intended to protect it and the position of its 
charge in the event it does provide further advances  ensuring any additional borrowing it 
provides has priority over any other secured lending.
I can understand Mrs and Mr Ks point of view in respect of this wording, as it does appear to 
be at odds with the terms of their mortgage. But ultimately the wording used by Barclays in 
its documentation and processes is based on its interpretation of the relevant legal position 
and is a matter of its commercial judgement  which I cant reasonably interfere with. And 
the wording used by Barclays in fact appears to be consistent with that in pro-forma 
documents relating to the registration of charges, issued by the land registry (form CH1).
Barclays has told our service that this wording is the same for all of its customers. And as all 
parties accept that a mortgage is in place and that it is right that the charge has been 
registered, I cant see that this wording has caused Mrs and Mr K any form of loss as it does 
not affect how their mortgage is being operated, either by them or Barclays. And they dont 
appear to have been treated unfairly or differently from other customers. 
So, while I know they feel strongly about this, I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably 
by following its standard processes when registering this wording with the land registry. And 
I dont think it has acted unfairly by declining to amend this.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman