DRN-3880060
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G have complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC actions when reviewing and 
blocking their savings account.  
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G held a savings account with Barclays. Around 27 May 2021, Barclays 
blocked the account while they carried out a review. 
Initially, Mrs G and Mr G were told the review would take around five working days  but the 
block wasnt removed until 16 June 2021. Mr G explained this had a significant impact on 
him and his family. He said a trip to Iran was impacted as he needed to access the cash in 
his savings account and had to borrow from family and friends. Mr G was also concerned 
Barclays made a discriminatory decision when reviewing the account, as he says a Barclays 
advisor told him the review was likely due to where he was born. 
Mrs G and Mr G complained. Barclays confirmed they were entitled to carry out a review but 
recognised the inconvenience of being told incorrect timescales  so they paid Mrs G and Mr 
G £100 compensation. They said no discriminatory decision had been made.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our adjudicator thought that Barclays offer of 
£100 compensation was fair in the circumstances. She explained that Barclays were entitled 
to review the account, and as the account in question had been dormant for around 12 
months, she didnt think there had been a detrimental impact by it being blocked for the time 
it was. She also confirmed shed listened to call recordings and couldnt locate any evidence 
of discriminatory or racist remarks.
Mr G remained unhappy. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to note that this decision focuses only on the joint account Mrs G and 
Mr G held with Barclays. I am aware Mr Gs parents accounts were also blocked, but Mr G is 
aware he would need to raise a separate complaint relating to his parents accounts. 
Barclays are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers. In 
Mrs G and Mr Gs case, Barclays confirmed they received a fraud report, so Im pleased to 
see they took the action to block any further activity on the account while they investigated 
things. Barclays havent been able to share the details of the fraud report with our service 
which is disappointing, however Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on this, I find Barclays are 
entitled to review accounts at any time.
The joint account was blocked for just under three weeks in total. However, Mrs G and Mr G 
were informed that it should only be blocked for around five working days. Ive no doubt it 
would have been inconvenient for Mrs G and Mr G to realise they couldnt use their account 
or access the money in it. Ive thought about this alongside what I know of Mrs G and Mr Gs 
circumstances. Im aware the account in question, and the only one Mrs G and Mr G held 
with Barclays, was a savings account which hadnt been used for around 12 months. Ive 
noted Mrs G and Mr G stated they needed to access the money in the savings account for a 
trip to Iran which was due to take place around 17 June 2021, and they had to borrow 
money from friends and family to allow them to travel. I havent seen any evidence of the 
trip, the dates it took place, or the loans Mrs G and Mr G had to take out with friends and 
family. However, Im aware Mrs G and Mr Gs account restriction was lifted on 16 June 2021 
 and while I recognise Barclays didnt inform Mrs G and Mr G the restriction had been lifted, 
I cant agree that they couldnt access their money before the trip.
Mr G has said he believes Barclays decision to review his account was due to where he was 
born  he says a Barclays advisor informed him this was likely the reason during a phone 
call. He thinks Barclays have racially discriminated against him. This is a serious allegation 
for Mr G to make, and one Ive thought about carefully. Ive listened to relevant phone calls 
between Barclays and Mr G around the time of the block and I havent seen any evidence 
that this remark was made. Ive also explained above why I consider Barclays actions to be 
fair in the circumstances of whats happened. Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays made 
their decision to review the account based on Mr Gs place of birth or any other 
characteristic. Therefore, I wont be upholding the complaint on this point.  
Overall, I recognise the overall inconvenience Mrs G and Mr G faced when learning their 
savings account was blocked and were misinformed by Barclays on timescales. Taking 
everything into account, including the fact this was the only account held by Mrs G and Mr G 
with Barclays and hadnt been used for around 12 months, I find £100 compensation to be 
reasonable in the circumstances to recognise the inconvenience to Mrs G and Mr G. As this 
compensation has already been paid to Mrs G and Mr G, I wont be asking Barclays to do 
anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman