DRN-4239251
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P deceased complains that Scottish Widows Limited gave it wrong 
information about the sale value of an ISA. The complaint is brought on behalf of the estate 
by the executor, who Ill refer to as Mr P.
Mr P says he was told the estate would receive the probate value of the ISA, and he wants 
Scottish Widows to honour this.
What happened
I set out what happened in my provisional decision dated 20 June 2023. In brief summary, 
Mrs P passed away in January 2022. She held an ISA with Scottish Widows which contained 
one fund, which Ill refer to as C. The probate value of the ISA was £35,747.69.
When Mr P phoned Scottish Widows on 4 March 2022, Scottish Widows told him that the 
estate wouldnt receive less than the probate value of the ISA. But, when the fund was sold 
on 27 June 2022, the estate received around £3,800 less than the probate value. 
Scottish Widows accepted it had given Mr P the wrong information. It paid him £201 to cover 
the cost of his phone calls, and for the inconvenience. It offered to reinstate the fund as if it 
hadnt been sold, but Mr P didnt agree to that because he thought it would leave the estate 
in a worse position.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr P didnt agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I explained why and what I thought Scottish 
Widows needed to do to put things right. I said:
I find, and Scottish Widows accepts, that it gave Mr P wrong information during his 
phone call on 4 March  he shouldnt have been told that the estate would receive 
the probate value of the ISA when it was sold. The probate valuation of the ISA was 
based on the price of C as at the date of Mrs Ps death and didnt have any bearing 
on the sale proceeds the estate would receive  which would be based on the sale 
price of C.
I can understand why Mr P wants Scottish Widows to honour what it told him and pay 
the estate the probate value of the ISA. But I agree with our investigator  there was 
no guaranteed value of the ISA, and the probate value wouldnt have been the 
amount the estate would ever have received, (unless the price of C when it was sold 
happened to be the same as the probate price).
I dont agree its fair to reinstate the ISA. The price of C has decreased and theres 
no guarantee it will increase to match the sale price the estate received on 27 June 
2022. So reinstating the ISA could unfairly put the estate in a less favourable 
position, and it will delay completion of the administration of the estate.
After careful consideration, I think Mr P would have acted differently if hed not been 
given the wrong information. I cant say for certain what he would have done. But I 
think its more likely than not that he would have kept an eye on the price of C and 
that he would have arranged to complete and submit the sale instruction paperwork 
much more quickly than he did. I say this because he was clearly worried about the 
impact of the war in Ukraine on the price of C and he wanted to obtain the best price 
he could for the estate.
Aside from the fact Mr P had taken a relaxed approach to the timing of completing 
the required paperwork (because of what hed wrongly been told), there was also a 
delay because Scottish Widows told him it needed both his signature and the second 
executors signature on the paperwork. Either that, or Mr P needed to explain that the 
second executor was working abroad and provide his contact number. But its clear 
from the grant of probate that power had been reserved to the second executor. This 
meant that, unless a further application was made to the Probate Registry, the 
second executor played no part in the administration of the estate, and his 
instruction, or agreement, should not have been required to sell C and close the ISA.
This means there was no reason why Mr P couldnt have completed the required 
form relatively quickly after his 4 March phone call and sent it to Scottish Widows. I 
dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Scottish Widows could likely have 
received the completed paperwork by 8 March 2022. Using the same timing for when 
it actually received the paperwork, I think the sale most likely would have taken place 
four working days later. So, on 14 March. I think Scottish Widows should calculate 
what the estate would have received had C been sold on 14 March 2022 and pay the 
estate the difference, plus interest.
Scottish Widows paid Mr P £201 for the inconvenience hed been caused, and for the 
cost of his phone calls. I only have the power to order compensation for distress and 
inconvenience to an eligible complainant who, in this case, is the late Mrs P. That 
doesnt mean Im unsympathetic to Mr Ps situation. The administration of an estate 
can often be a stressful time and I appreciate Mr P felt responsible for what had 
happened as he was acting on behalf of the other executor and beneficiary. But I 
cant increase the compensation payable to him.
Scottish Widows accepted my provisional decision and said it thought it was a fair outcome.
Mr P was pleased I was minded to uphold the complaint. But he didnt agree with my 
conclusion that he would have completed the sale paperwork shortly after his 4 March phone 
call. He said the late Mrs P had two other similar investments with other providers, and for 
these he requested valuations and used the FTSE 100 as a gauge to initiate the sales. If 
hed asked for a valuation on 4 March 2022, it would likely have been quite low and he would 
have delayed giving sale instructions until the price rose, probably towards the end of March.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr P said in response to my provisional decision. As I explained in that decision, I cant say with certainty what Mr P would have done if hed been 
given the right information. I appreciate what he says he did with other, similar investments, 
and I dont doubt he wanted to ensure he achieved the best outcome for the estate. I accept 
its possible he may have delayed giving sale instructions until he thought he would get a 
better price.
He says the FTSE 100 began to recover in the days after 4 March and returned to pre-war 
levels nearer to the end of March. But Ive looked at the price of C and it didnt move that 
much during this period and didnt recover to the probate price of 159.70. Looking at the 
price movements, it would be difficult to pick a particular point which would have been the 
trigger for Mr P to give a sale instruction.
Based on what he told Scottish Widows at the time, he was worried about the impact of the 
war in Ukraine on the price of the fund. For that reason, I still think he would have wanted to 
sell sooner, rather than waiting to see what the impact might be.
Whilst I accept my approach is based on what I think is most likely to have happened, and 
for that reason doesnt necessarily reflect exactly what would have occurred, I still think it is 
the fairest way of calculating the compensation due to the estate. For that reason, I wont be 
departing from my earlier conclusion.
Putting things right
Scottish Widows Limited should calculate how much the estate of Mrs P would have 
received if it had sold C shares on 14 March 2022. It should compare this to the amount the 
estate actually received and pay the estate the difference.
Scottish Widows Limited must also pay interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per 
year from 14 March 2022 to the date it makes the payment. *
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Scottish Widows Limited to take off tax from this interest.
Scottish Widows Limited must give the estate of Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Scottish Widows Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman