DRN-3458801
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account without notice.
What happened
Mr K had a personal current account with Barclays. 
In December 2020, Barclays decided to close Mr Ks account. It did so immediately and 
without notice, following a review, writing to Mr K to let him know about its decision. 
Mr K wasnt happy that Barclays had closed his account, so he complained. He said, in 
summary, that the decision was unfair and had caused him significant inconvenience. 
Moreover, Mr K wanted to know the specific reasons why his account had been closed. 
Barclays sent its final response to Mr K on 24 December 2020. In it, the bank said that it 
regularly reviews customer accounts. And following its review, it had decided to close Mr Ks 
account which was in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with that response, so he approached our service for an independent 
review of the matter. An investigator here looked at what had happened and, having done 
so, didnt think that Barclays had acted unreasonably in deciding to close Mr Ks account. 
In summary, the investigator said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account allowed for Barclays to carry out a 
review. So, it wasnt unreasonable that it had done so here. 
Barclays has several legal and regulatory obligations to adhere to in its provision of 
banking services. And in reviewing Mr Ks account, Barclays had been carrying out 
these obligations. 
Given the outcome of Barclays review, it had decided to close Mr Ks account 
immediately and without notice. That wasnt an unreasonable decision in the 
circumstances and was in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account. 
Barclays had no obligation to share any further information with Mr K. 
Mr K, though, didnt agree. He said Barclays must act reasonably when deciding to close a 
customers account, and he didnt think the bank had done so in his case. Refusing to 
disclose any specific information about why his account had been closed was the key driver 
for Mr Ks belief that Barclays had been unreasonable. So, he asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while recognising that what I say here will be disappointing for Mr K, I dont 
find that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
Broadly speaking, banks are entitled to decide for themselves  as a matter of commercial 
judgement  whether to accept or keep a customer. This service wont generally interfere 
with a banks exercise of its discretion in such matters, as long as that discretion is exercised 
fairly.
Here, Barclays decided to review Mr Ks account. Our investigator has already, quite rightly, 
pointed out that Barclays has a number of legal and regulatory obligations that it has to meet 
 and regularly reviewing customer accounts is one way that it can do so. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Ks account, which he wouldve agreed to when opening it, also allow 
Barclays to take such action. So, with that in mind, I dont find that Barclays acted unfairly 
when it carried out a review of Mr Ks account. 
Following its review, Barclays decided to close Mr Ks account immediately. Thats a 
decision its entitled to take. From what Ive seen, I dont think the banks decision was unfair 
or unreasonable in the circumstances and Im satisfied that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
I know Mr K would like to be told more about the specific reasons why Barclays decided to 
close his account, but the bank is under no obligation to tell him more than it already has. 
And nor can I compel it to do so. Thats in much the same way as if Mr K had decided to 
close his account and leave Barclays, he wouldnt have needed to give a reason. 
Having reviewed matters, I am satisfied that Barclays decision was both fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. So, while I realise this explanation likely wont bring much satisfaction 
to Mr K, I hope he is reassured that someone impartial has reviewed the legitimacy of 
Barclays actions. 
Mr K has said that Barclays actions caused him much inconvenience, and I dont doubt that 
it wouldve been a stressful time for him. But given Ive found no error on Barclays part, it 
follows that I cant fairly require the bank to compensate him in the manner hes requested. 
To sum up then; I dont find that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to 
review  and subsequently close  Mr Ks account. I therefore dont uphold this complaint 
and I dont require Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Simon LouthOmbudsman