DRN-4378880
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc should have declared his account in default 
when he started a debt management plan, and sought a £35 monthly payment, which wasnt 
agreed with his debt plan. 
 
What happened
The debt management plan Mr G agreed has run for three years and during this time hes 
often had to call Capital One to deal with issues, which has caused him a lot of stress and 
anxiety. 
Mr G said the debt plan requires consumers to default accounts, but unlike other businesses 
Capital One declined. Mr G said he fears Capital One may default his account at any time 
giving him another six years of defaults. He said Capital One hasnt responded to offers from 
his debt plan and hes received monthly reminders to make the agreed payment of £35, 
which he never agreed, but is paying outside of his debt plan though he cant afford it. 
Mr G said Capital One claimed his debt plan made a revised offer in November 2022 for a 
monthly payment of £37.17, but wouldnt provide proof. He said the debt plan denied this 
and said the last offer was £20.87, accepted in January 2022. In August 2022 Mr G said he 
Capital One told him his payment was late, warning about late charges and requesting 
immediate payment of £115.53. And then chased the monthly payment of £35. He said that 
due to his fear of default, he topped up the payment from the debt plan. 
Mr G complained to Capital One, but wasnt satisfied with its response that it wasnt 
obligated to default his account. He said his problems stemmed from Capital One seeking 
short term solutions Mr G said he had substantial debts and anticipated being in debt 
management for five years, but Capital One had taken no account of this. Mr G referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said The Information 
Commissioners Office says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their 
payments a default may be registered, but if they enter into a debt plan then a default 
wouldnt normally be registered unless the terms of the plan are broken. 
The investigator said there was never three months arrears on the account. He set out 
reasons why Mr Gs wish for a long-term plan from January 2020 had been frustrated:
 Capital One is under no obligation to suspend interest at any point, but may do so at its 
own discretion. It can agree temporary payment arrangements, but it isn't obliged to put a 
long-term plan in place solely due to the existence of a debt management plan.
 Capital One can only start a debt plan when there are arrears and this ends when they are 
paid off. Otherwise, it can apply breathing space and both options suspend interest.
 When interest is suspended, the minimum monthly payments are greatly reduced. The 
payment offers or proposals from the debt plan have been below the normal minimum 
payments on the account, but not when interest is suspended.
 At various times Mr G made payments over those from the debt plan and this meant that 
three months of arrears did not accrue, and a default was likely avoided.
The investigator said a default wasnt possible on Mr Gs Capital One account when the debt 
plan started, whereas it might have been possible if it hadn't been included in the plan. He 
said the debt plan offers and Mr Gs choices to pay above the offers meant that a default 
hasn't been possible since. He said Capital One hadnt done anything wrong by not 
declaring a default and hadnt managed the account in any way it isn't permitted to do. And 
Capital One wasnt at fault for a £35 payment plan set in place as of November 2022. 
The investigator said the debt plan made an offer for £38.59 after already paying this amount 
as a one off, but didn't tell Capital One this, or that it would resume paying £20.87 the next 
month. He said Mr G chose to pay an additional £35 for several months, rather than contact 
the debt plan, which would have explained what happened and to Capital One and additional 
payments on top of those being made by debt plan may not have been required. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigator and said he hadnt investigated the complaint he was 
making. He said he told Capital One about his debt plan, but it persuaded him a better 
approach was to apply breathing space. He didnt realise this didnt involve a default. Mr G 
said the investigator had made multiple errors and repetitions in payment notation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
About three years ago Mr G was in substantial debt with multiple creditors and sought help 
via a debt management plan. He thinks Capital One treated the offer from the debt plan as a 
temporary, six-month solution, whilst it was intended to be, 'for the foreseeable future'. He 
said the multiple letters, texts and emails he has received from Capital One since then have 
had a huge impact on his mental health.
I am sorry to see the detriment to Mr Gs mental health that his situation and interactions 
around debt have caused him. I have looked closely at Capital Ones handling of his debt to 
see if it acted in accordance with the terms of the contract that binds them and the rules, and 
to see if it has treated him fairly as concerns his debt management plan. This includes Mr 
Gs email of 1 October and phone conversation with an ombudsman here on 19 October 
2023. I havent seen much detail of the errors Mr G said the investigator has made with 
regard to payments and communications, but Ive reviewed his findings in this decision.
Mr G thinks that Capital One ought to have declared his account in default when he entered 
the debt management plan. And that it unilaterally sought a £35 monthly payment, which 
wasnt agreed with his debt plan. I have reviewed Mr Gs account statements, and Capital 
One's records and the debt plan and payment history.
Mr G said, 'The first thing [the debt plan] asks you to do to start the DMP process is to 
default your accounts. I can see that this is what Mr G wanted to happen, but I havent found 
this advice from his debt plan. Its website states, You will probably get default notices if you 
are on a debt management planThis is because you pay less than the minimum monthly 
payment amounts. And the debt plan goes on to warn of the adverse effects of a default, 
such as the debt being passed to a collection agency and the potential refusal of the debt 
plan offer by a creditor.
Mr G said his other creditors put his accounts into default around January 2020, which gave 
the defaults a six-year timescale that he also desired for his Capital One account. I can 
understand Mr Gs wish for certainty about his account status and the end date of the defaults. However, there was nothing to stop a lender from defaulting his account in 2020 
and subsequently if he didnt maintain payments under the plan or an arrangement to pay 
and so there was no guarantee that he would avoid future defaults, though I can see he has 
managed his debt as well as possible. 
Because a default wasnt registered on Mr Gs Capital One account he is aware that it can't 
be managed in the same way as his other accounts that were defaulted by other creditors. 
The nature of an account changes once defaulted as it becomes a repayment account, 
whereas the terms and conditions of the original credit agreement with Capital One still 
applied to both parties. The debt plan Mr G entered into has the effect of not causing a 
default to be registered by Capital One, whereas a default will follow three months of non-
payment in other circumstances. 
From what Ive seen, there hasnt been a reason for Capital One to put a default on Mr Gs 
account from January 2020, other than at his request, not least because he has made 
additional payments to prevent arrears. As to setting up a debt plan, Capital One can only do 
this when theres arrears to the account, and this has only been the case at certain times 
since the plan started. Capital One isn't under any obligation to apply forbearance or 
breathing space at other times in order to suspend interest, and doesnt have to suspend 
interest due to an offer of payment from the debt plan. However, Capital One has applied 
forbearance as it wasnt required to default Mr Gs account, not in error as Mr G states. I can 
see that Capital One offered this course of action to Mr G on his initial contact and he 
agreed. I dont think it was required to treat him differently or with greater forbearance in 
relation to the arrears on his account, when Mr G realised that he wanted long-term 
assistance.
I can see that this different treatment was undesirable to Mr G, and he has said that it 
caused him difficulties. Mr G said he no longer wants to worry about either the account 
defaulting or Capital One inventing offers that werent made, or terminating already accepted 
offers. The investigator has set out to Mr G in detail the debt and payments from January 
2020 onwards, begging with a three-month plan agreed for £37.17 with interest suspended. I 
dont intend to reproduce the investigators list of transactions as this has already been sent 
to Mr G, however I have reviewed these against his account, and I think they are accurate. 
Mr G said he was left with no choice but to make overpayments. The investigator said Mr G 
chose to pay an additional £35 for several months, rather than contact the debt plan, which 
would have explained what happened with regard to the plan payments. Had he done so, I 
dont think the additional payments on top of those being made by the debt plan would have 
been required and a review of the debt plan and the communications bears this out. In that 
respect, I agree with the investigator that Mr G did have a choice. But I dont think an 
inadvertent over-payment sets a new offer within the debt plan or shows that Mr G has 
favoured one creditor over another.
The payment transactions; the suspensions of interest; the communications and the points 
where the arrangement to pay expired all adhere to the pattern of action that we would 
expect Capital One to follow in the circumstances. Mr G fears he has been adversely 
reported by Capital One during the period of his indebtedness. We arent aware of any 
defaults and his credit file is likely to reflect that he has had an arrangement to pay. 
Mr G is seeking reassurance that a long-term agreement can be made that protects him and 
his credit file for the future and respects the agreement in place with his other creditors. 
Those agreements are almost three years old now and I hope Mr G can see from his careful 
approach to debt management that he has every reason to believe that he can continue to 
emerge successfully from his former debt situation. I think the nature of Capital One's treatment of Mr G since entering a debt management plan 
was in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account agreement. I also think 
Capital One treated Mr G fairly in the circumstances of his complaint as although it 
approached his indebtedness with relatively short-term payment arrangements, at times 
these suspended interest and greatly reduced his monthly payments.
Mr G says Capital Ones short-term approach to alleviating his debt problem meant that his 
account did not default, and he fears that Capital Ones actions could be devastating to him. 
If in the future, he finds Capital One has impacted him in this way, it is open to him to bring a 
new complaint in respect of whatever new actions Capital One may take.     
I note that Capital One has recently refunded some of its charges to Mr G, though I havent 
considered this as it is not part of his complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman