DRN-4219874
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund the money he lost to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr B fell victim to a cryptocurrency scam. As part of this, he was persuaded to set up an 
account with Wise in June 2022. He used this to make a payment of £4,980 to his existing 
cryptocurrency wallet. A few days later, he transferred a further £4,500 to the same 
cryptocurrency merchant. From there, I understand the funds were loaded on to a fraudulent 
trading platform. 
Mr B subsequently realised he had been scammed and asked Wise to refund him. It didnt 
agree, saying it had processed the payments as requested. Supported by a professional 
representative, Mr B referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Wise had cause to suspect 
Mr B was being scammed at the time. Nor could it recover the funds through the chargeback 
scheme, which offers some recourse for certain card payment disputes, as the merchant 
paid directly had provided the expected service by loading the funds to the cryptocurrency 
wallet as instructed.
Mr B has appealed the investigators view. He argues that Wise should have intervened with 
the first payment  and that would have uncovered the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Wise is expected to execute authorised 
payment instructions without undue delay. Mr Bs representative has confirmed that he 
authorised these payments. So, although he was duped into making them, the starting 
position is that hes liable for the resulting loss. 
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Wise, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before 
processing a payment. Such as when the payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the account. 
In this case, Mr B had set up a new account. So the first payment did not appear unusual or 
uncharacteristic  as Wise had no prior knowledge of the way Mr B usually transacted. 
The merchant Mr B paid was providing legitimate services, so I dont think the payment 
destination ought to have appeared concerning. I appreciate the payment amount was 
reasonably high. But Im also conscious that Wise is an EMI, not a bank. Its not that 
uncommon for EMI accounts to be opened to make larger payments compared to those 
made via banks. In those circumstances, I dont think the payment looked so unusual that 
Wise ought to identified it as possibly fraudulent. 
Given that I dont think the first payment looked suspicious, I dont think Wise had cause for 
concern about the second payment either. It looked very similar for the first  as it went to 
the same merchant and was for a similar (but slightly lower) amount. Overall, Im satisfied it 
was reasonable that Wise processed the payments as requested without completing further 
checks. I dont think its at fault for not realising Mr B might be at risk of fraud at the time. 
As the payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant, its also reasonable 
that Wise didnt explore raising a chargeback claim. Although the chargeback scheme offers 
some protection for card payment disputes, such a claim would only be considered against 
the merchant paid directly. Mr Bs underlying dispute is about the scammers, not the 
cryptocurrency merchant he paid using his Wise card  who its agreed loaded the wallet(s) 
in line with the requests received. I dont think Wise could have helped Mr B recover his 
funds as I dont think a chargeback claim against the cryptocurrency merchant would have 
succeeded. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, who has clearly lost a lot of money to a cruel 
and sophisticated scam. But I dont think Wise is at fault for this loss. And so I dont consider 
it fair to direct Wise to refund him or otherwise compensate him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman