DRN-1302999
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Free2Move Lease 
(Free2Move).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr D acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. There is clearly a hole in the carpet and the BVRLA 
guidelines say that no holes should be present. So, I think Free2Move were right to 
make a charge.
I understand Mr D has explained that hes not been charged before for similar 
damage, but Ive not seen acceptance that Free2Move were planning to waive 
damage charges for the carpet on this occasion and I dont think any previous 
agreement is relevant. The terms of the finance agreement explain that charges can 
be made, and I think free2Move have made them in line with the relevant industry 
guidance.
Im similarly not persuaded that the use of the car as a teaching vehicle should 
change Mr Ds liability for excess damage. If that were the case I would have 
expected to see this in the agreement.
I dont think theres evidence that carpet wear is a fault with this type of car. If it was I 
would have expected Mr D to have made a claim under warranty and Ive not seen 
that.
Ive also not seen evidence of the missing services being completed. So, I dont think 
Free2Move were wrong to make charges for the three services that were missing in 
the log book.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman