DRN-1876226
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited handled a fire claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs F made a claim to Ageas after a tumble dryer caught fire, causing a 
lot of damage to her property. Ageas accepted the claim and arranged for Mrs F and her 
family to stay elsewhere while repairs were carried out. The repairs were almost finished by 
May 2018.
Mrs F complained to Ageas about delays and problems with the claim. Ageas agreed that its 
supplier had made the contents side of the claim more difficult by not keeping an accurate 
record of items which were beyond repair. There were also various snagging issues. In 
particular the toilet became loose, causing a water leak which set off the smoke alarm. That 
caused Mrs F and another family member a great deal of upset after the previous traumatic 
fire. Ageas appointed another contractor to remedy some of the snagging issues and made 
a cash settlement for the rest.
In December 2018 Mrs F complained to Ageas about problems with condensation in the loft. 
Ageas re-laid the insulation in an attempt to fix this problem and agreed to pay for items 
stored in the loft that had been damaged by mould. 
In August 2019 Ageas offered Mrs F £500 compensation for the trouble and upset it had 
caused her.
As Mrs F still wasnt happy, she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
upheld it. He thought Ageas should pay Mrs F a further £200 compensation and deal with 
the issue with the loft.
Ageas agreed to pay the further compensation but didnt agree that it was liable to do any 
more regarding the loft space. So the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
The way Ageas supplier got rid of Mrs Fs damaged belongings without keeping a proper 
record of them held up the settlement of the contents side of the claim and caused a lot of 
unnecessary work for Mrs F.
Because Ageas contractor didnt come back to put right some of the outstanding snagging 
issues despite being chased, Mrs F felt she had to obtain quotes from her own contractors to 
finish the job. That shouldnt have been necessary. I can understand that it would have been 
upsetting for Mrs F to see the sub-standard work and have the trouble of sorting it out 
herself. I can also appreciate that the fire alarm being set off by the leak caused by poor 
workmanship would have been traumatic.
Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that compensation of £700 in total is 
fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset Ageas caused Mrs F by its poor claim handling. 
The remaining issue is whether Ageas should be responsible for fixing the problem with 
condensation in Mrs Fs loft. At first it was thought it might have been caused by the loft 
insulation not having been laid properly. But re-laying the insulation didnt fix the problem. 
Ageas also thought it might have been linked to the new plasterwork in the rooms 
underneath but discounted this theory after the plasterwork had been given plenty of time to 
dry out. Its surveyor now thinks theres a lack of ventilation in the loft due to the way its been 
built. He said the roof has a very shallow pitch and that reduces the flow of air. He said a lot 
of other properties on Mrs Fs estate have had air bricks installed, which he thinks suggests 
that this is a common problem for similar houses. Ageas says the only work it has done to 
change things in the loft is re-lay the insulation in accordance with current standards.
Mrs Fs surveyor thought moisture vapour was entering the loft through gaps around the 
downlights in the bathroom. He said this could clearly be seen in the area of the loft directly 
above the bathroom. He advised that each downlight should be removed and sealant 
applied before the light fitting was re-fixed to reduce the possibility of steam entering the loft.  
He said there was some ventilation in the loft but he recommended putting in further 
ventilation as the increased insulation in the loft area meant it was colder than it had been 
previously which would make condensation more likely to form.
Mrs F is clear that she didnt have a problem with condensation in the loft before the fire. 
Since she has a large household, she stores quite a lot of items up there and they were 
never previously damaged by mould. Since Ageas contractor installed the downlights in the 
bathroom, I think Ageas should investigate and, if necessary, take action to stop moisture 
from getting into the loft through gaps around the lights since that seems to me likely to be 
contributing to the problem.
If that doesnt fix the problem, both parties seem to agree that more ventilation is needed in 
the loft. Ageas seems to be saying that it isnt liable to install this as its an issue due to the 
way the house was built. I can understand its point of view. But Mrs F didnt have this 
problem previously. She now has more insulation because of current standards and that 
means the loft is colder than it was before the fire, so condensation is more likely. Before the 
fire Mrs F had a loft which didnt suffer from condensation. So thats what she should have 
after the damage too. I think Ageas should put in more ventilation if necessary to ensure this 
even if it means Mrs F could end up in a better position than she was in prior to the fire. 
Thats because in my view this is the only fair solution.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to remedy the problem of 
condensation in Mrs Fs loft as mentioned above and pay her a total of £700 in 
compensation (less any sums already paid in this respect) for the trouble and upset it 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman