DRN-1352480
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC said she was charged too much interest but it's not 
given her a refund.  
What happened
In 2017, Lloyds wrote to Mrs N  it said it hadnt frozen interest on the account after it agreed 
to. As a result, it had credited £2,608.25 to her account. 
Mrs N is unhappy as when she contacted Lloyds to access this money, she said it refused to 
pay it back and it hasnt given her a reason. 
Lloyds replied to her complaint. It said the letter she received concerned a credit adjustment 
on her loan account, following a review of the assistance Lloyds provided to customers when 
they were with the Collections department. It explained that as the refund was less than the 
outstanding balance, it wouldnt be paid to her directly. And that as the loan was part of a 
Debt Relief Order entered into in August 2013, Mrs N wont be pursued for the debt. It added 
that she queried the refund before and Lloyds explained its approach in October 2017 and 
June 2019. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. Mrs N disagreed  so the complaint 
was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Lloyds collection records for Mrs Ns loan, there was originally around 
£10,000 left to pay. Mrs N entered into a debt relief order in 2013, which included this 
amount  as a result, shes no longer being asked to pay it back.
Ive considered the letter Lloyds sent to her in 2017 about the interest charged. Mrs N thinks 
it means she overpaid, so she should get this money back. But instead, it explained that 
interest was added mistakenly  meaning that the amount shed left to pay was £2,608.25 
higher than it shouldve been.  
So, to be clear, the issue with the interest didnt mean that Mrs N paid too much. Instead it 
meant that, at one point, she owed more to Lloyds than she should have. So, when she went 
into the Debt Relief Order, this debt shouldve been £2,608.25 less. But given that the order 
meant she now doesnt need to pay anything, that doesnt matter. 
Mrs N said Lloyds hasnt explained why it wont give her the money back, but I can see that 
its letter in 2017 did explain what happened, and that it answered her questions when she 
raised them. So I dont think its done anything wrong here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman