DRN-2328016
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Well Dunn Limiteds (WDL) - trading as Insurance Revolution 
Broking Services - administration of a commercial motor insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 WDL sold Mr K a policy to insure his companys van, which was paid for in 
instalments by direct debit. It asked him to send it the vans V5 (log book). Mr K had only 
recently bought the van and so couldn't provide the V5 immediately as DVLA hadn't sent it to 
him. WDL sent Mr K notification to say that if he didn't send it the V5 it would cancel the 
policy from 18 July 2019.
On that day (18 July 2019) WDL sent Mr K a text message saying that if he wanted to avoid 
his policy being cancelled he would need to send in the V5. Mr K told us he didn't receive 
that message and thought that WDL had already cancelled his policy. He then cancelled the 
direct debit paying for the insurance. On 7 August 2019 WDL told Mr K that, as the direct 
debit was in default, it would cancel his policy in seven days. On 14 August 2019 WDL 
notified Mr K it had cancelled the policy.
Mr K didnt think WDL had dealt with him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. But he didn't think WDL needed to take any further action. Mr K 
didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he complained to us Mr K said he believed WDL had acted fraudulently. That was 
because it asked him to provide the vans V5 within 21 days. But as hed only recently 
bought the van he didn't think it was possible to do that within 21 days. So he thinks WDL 
knew it would need to cancel the policy when it sold it to him. But I don't think that's the case.
Ive listened to the call during which Mr K paid for the policy. And, at the end of that call, 
WDL told Mr K he would need to provide further information, including the V5, within 21 
days. Mr K didn't object to that request at the time. But he later contacted WDL to say that 
he was still waiting for DVLA to send him the V5. WDL then sent him a notification to say 
that if he didn't send the V5 it would cancel the policy from 16 July 2019. 
On 10 July 2019 WDL sent Mr K another notification saying that if he didn't provide the V5 
his policy was scheduled to be cancelled from 18 July 2019. Mr K contacted WDL again and 
said he was still waiting for the V5. On 18 July 2019 WDL sent Mr K a text message advising 
him that he still needed to provide his V5, if he wanted to avoid his policy being cancelled. 
And it didn't actually cancel his policy on that date. 
Mr Ks told us he didn't receive WDLs text message on 18 July 2019. But it's not clear why 
that was. WDLs shown us that it sent the message to the same number that it sent other 
messages to, which Mr K did receive. So I don't think WDL did anything wrong or which 
caused Mr K not to receive that message. But notably, as I've said above, WDL didn't cancel 
Mr Ks policy on 18 July 2019, and it didn't send him any message or notification which 
indicated it had gone ahead with that cancellation. So I don't think it had always known it 
was going to cancel the policy from the outset, as Mr K alleged. And as it hadn't told him it 
had actually cancelled the policy, I don't think it gave Mr K cause to cancel the direct debit 
payment. Further, if Mr K had been in any doubt about whether or not the policy was 
cancelled he could have asked WDL to clear that up. But he didn't do so.
Instead Mr K chose to cancel the direct debit paying for the premium. And it was on the 
basis that the premium wasn't paid that WDL sent Mr K a further notification that his policy 
would be cancelled in seven days. And, when he didn't pay the outstanding premium WDL 
cancelled the policy. So, the reason for the policy cancellation was because the premium 
wasn't paid, and not because Mr K hadn't sent the V5 in time. And in those circumstances I 
don't think WDL cancelled Mr Ks policy unfairly.
Mr Ks said that, given WDL had already sent him a notification in July 2019 indicating that it 
was going to cancel his policy in seven days, it couldn't go back on that. But I don't think 
thats right. The notification WDL sent to Mr K said that his policy was scheduled to be 
cancelled in seven days. And to avoid that it advised Mr K to call WDL, which he did. And 
scheduling a policy for cancellation and actually cancelling it aren't the same thing. And 
while its clearly unfortunate that Mr K didn't receive WDLs message of 18 July 2019, I don't 
think its the case that the earlier notification meant that the policy cancellation scheduled 
from 18 July 2019 couldn't be avoided. So I don't think WDLs done anything wrong.
Further, I understand that because WDL cancelled the policy Mr K struggled to find a 
replacement. A policy cancellation by an insurer or broker can make finding other policies 
more difficult or expensive as some insurers think that such a cancellation increases the risk 
a potential policyholder presents. But that would be the case regardless of whether WDL 
cancelled the policy because Mr K hadn't provided the V5 or if he hadn't paid his premium. 
And as I've said above, in this case WDL has confirmed that it cancelled the policy because 
Mr K hadn't paid his premium. And it gave Mr K fair warning of that. So I don't think it dealt 
with him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman