DRN-3071688
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
What Mrs H says
Mrs H hadnt invested before. She saw an online article by someone who said hed 
interviewed a celebrity who had told him about making some extra money by investing in 
cryptocurrency. The author of the article said hed done some research and found that it was 
possible to earn a few hundred pounds a month. Mrs H provided her contact details and very 
shortly afterwards received a call from an adviser who told her he was licensed and had 
traded for over 18 years. He also gave her information about company A and investing in 
cryptocurrency. 
Mrs H decided to invest but needed help with the application as she had no experience, so 
the adviser helped her to install an application that gave him access to her computer. The 
adviser then opened a bitcoin account in Mrs Hs name. She has explained that all she did 
was type in a user name and password and the adviser did the rest. Using the same 
application, he then transferred funds from Mrs Hs Lloyds account to another account he 
helped her to open. The adviser then opened a trading account with company A. Again, 
because Mrs H didnt know what to do, the adviser opened the account and Mrs H just 
entered a user name and password. Mrs H says the adviser had full control of her screen 
when the bitcoin account and trading accounts were opened. 
Mrs H says that on 13 November 2019 she made an initial payment by card of £257.50. 
Over the course of the following month or so she saw her investment grow to over £700. The 
adviser told Mrs H it was easy to withdraw funds and helped her to withdraw £69.68 on 21 
November 2019.
The adviser suggested Mrs H invest more to earn more profits. Mrs H explained that she 
didnt have funds to invest. The adviser suggested Mrs H take out a loan for £25,000 and 
explained that she could invest the funds with company A and then cancel the loan in the 14-
day cooling off period. During that period, she would earn enough profit to pay the loan off in 
full and earn a profit she could keep. Company A offered a guarantee which meant she 
wouldnt lose any funds. 
Mrs H took out a loan in December 2019 and, with the help of the adviser, transferred funds 
from her Lloyds account to the new account opened in her name. From there Mrs H, again 
with help, transferred the funds to company A. After this, Mrs H was told the guarantee only 
applied to investments of over £25,000. Mrs H was told to take out a further loan of £25,000 
with a different company. Mrs H took out the second loan and paid £24,950 to the other 
account in her name. The funds were then transferred to company A. 
Not long after Mrs H was unable to contact company A and realised shed been the victim of 
a scam. She reported the scam to Lloyds on 27 December 2019. At this stage Lloyds told 
her to contact the loan companies and took no further action. Mrs H contacted Lloyds again 
on 3 February 2020 and Lloyds contacted the receiving bank, but no funds remained. 
What Lloyds say 
Lloyds assessed Mrs Hs case under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM 
Code) and accepted 50% liability as the sending bank because it didnt take the action it 
should have when Mrs H first notified Lloyds of the scam. But it said Mrs H hadnt met her 
requisite level of care when she made the payments and was grossly negligent. This was 
because she didnt complete any checks in respect of company A or investing in bitcoin and 
allowed remote access to her computer. Lloyds also said the two loan companies involved 
should be held to account. 
Our investigation so far
Our investigator asked Lloyds to refund Mrs H in full. She said the CRM Code doesnt apply 
to the payments Mrs H made, as Mrs Hs funds didnt go directly to the scammer and the 
CRM Code doesnt cover such payments. Instead she looked at Lloyds responsibility to 
protect Mrs H. The investigator felt the two payments of £25,000 and £24,950 were unusual 
and out of character given Mrs Hs usual account history so Lloyds should have asked her 
some questions about them at the time.  Had Lloyds done so, it would have identified a 
number of red flags that indicated a possible investment scam and the scam could have 
been prevented. She asked Lloyds to refund the remaining 50% of these payments. The 
£257.50 card payment seemed to go to a platform offering cryptocurrency that provided the 
service it was paid to. In these circumstances the investigator said a chargeback claim would 
be unlikely to be successful so she didnt recommend this sum should be refunded.
Mrs H accepted what the investigator said, but Lloyds didnt and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary Lloyds said:
- At the time Lloyds assessed the claim and made a payment to Mrs H of £24,976 it 
wasnt aware that the account Mrs Hs funds were sent to before they were 
transferred to the scammer was owned or controlled by Mrs H. It assumed the 
scammer had control of this account. The significance of this is that Lloyds applied 
the CRM Code, but this Code doesnt apply where the fraudulent payment wasnt 
sent directly to the scammer. 
- Although the CRM Code doesnt apply Lloyds pointed out that it didnt think Mrs H 
acted reasonably when she made the payments because she didnt verify that shed 
been called by a genuine company, didnt complete any checks on company A 
before investing and allowed the scammer to have remote access. 
- Lloyds didnt consider it was unusual to receive loan funds and immediately remove 
them from the account; Lloyds also said Mrs H would have received a warning before 
each payment was made. 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 September 2021. In it I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. In this case, 
although the scammer helped Mrs H to make the payments, Im satisfied that Mrs H knew 
they were being made and authorised them.
Ive thought carefully about whether Lloyds are responsible for Mrs Hs loss when she 
transferred the funds. In this case, Mrs H, with help from the scammer, transferred money from her account at Lloyds to another account held at a different firm and from that account 
to the fraudster.
Im satisfied it wasnt the transfer of funds from Mrs Hs account at Lloyds (or Lloyds alleged 
failure to intervene in those transfers) that caused Mrs Hs loss. She wouldnt have suffered 
a loss had it not been for the transfer from the other account at a different firm to the 
fraudster and that, I think, is the actual cause of her loss. This means that the legal chain of 
causation between Lloyds actions and Mrs Hs loss has been broken.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs H, but this means I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for her loss as the loss hasnt been caused by its actions. Given this finding, I 
wont go on to consider whether the payments Mrs H made were unusual or uncharacteristic 
and what I consider Lloyds should have done at the time they were made. 
Lloyds assessed this case under the CRM Code, as at the time it thought the account Mrs 
Hs funds were sent to was controlled by the scammer and refunded £24,976. Lloyds had 
the opportunity to properly investigate what happened in this case when it reviewed Mrs Hs 
case and I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask Mrs H to return these funds 
now. This is particularly so as I believe Mrs H has used the funds to make loan repayments. 
If Lloyds doesnt agree it should set out why in its response to this provisional decision. 
The position is different in respect of card payments, which are covered by the chargeback 
scheme. Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a 
transaction when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased. It is 
organised and run through the overarching card scheme (Visa and Mastercard 
predominantly) but customers wishing to use the service must go through their card issuer 
(Lloyds in this case). The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and banks are not under any 
formal obligation to submit a chargeback claim. But this services view is that it is good 
practice for a bank to make a chargeback claim where the right exists and there is a 
reasonable prospect of success.
In this case Mrs Hs card payment wasnt made directly to the scammer. The payment was 
made to a cryptocurrency exchange. There isnt any evidence this cryptocurrency exchange 
did anything other than provide the service it was meant to. In these circumstances I dont 
consider a chargeback claim would have been successful and Im persuaded Lloyds acted 
reasonably in not attempting one. 
I am aware Mrs H has raised complaints against the loan companies involved which do not 
form part of this complaint and are being considered separately. 
Overall, Mrs H has been the victim of a cruel scam and lost a significant sum of money, but I 
cant reasonably conclude Lloyds is responsible for her loss.
Lloyds responded and said that it has nothing further to add. Lloyds also asked me to note 
that it has no intention of requesting the return of the funds it has already refunded to Mrs H. 
Mrs H let me know that she understands and accepts the outcome I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision and not asked me to consider any 
additional points my final decision is the same as my provisional decision (as reproduced 
above). 
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman