DRN-1579772
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store card 
in September 1997.
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs C disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
It looks like the account was taken out by filling out an application leaflet in the shop. PPI 
was added on to the store card account and Mrs C says she doesnt remember agreeing to 
add the PPI or being told much about it either.
However, these events were 23 years ago and weve seen a number of very similar PPI 
sales with the same retailer, from around that time. And weve spoken at length to the 
companies involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. We 
know, for example, that consumers were asked to fill out a card account application which 
was part of a wider leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in 
what the applicant was given to complete. 
I see Mrs C filled out such an application leaflet, which included a section about the PPI. 
This invited her to tick - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. There were also 
some brief details about the cost and other aspects of the PPI inside this box.  Mrs C ticked 
at this point and therefore agreed to the PPI. I also think the PPI would have prominently 
shown up on her monthly store card account statements.
So I think she consented to the PPI cover. I think shed have been equally free to not have 
asked for the PPI during the card application. I think if she hadnt agreed to the PPI she 
would have wanted to know what the periodic charges were for on her statements. 
This is what we call a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Mrs C to decide for herself whether she wanted the PPI 
cover. I acknowledge it could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall, I do think Mrs C probably had access to enough information to allow 
her to make an informed decision. 
Mrs C told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs C says she enjoyed. 
But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. Mrs C was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The 
cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave 
more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost 
her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month 
until she returned to work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would 
have been in addition to any other means Mrs C had in place at the time. 
For me to uphold Mrs Cs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, I think Mrs C selected the PPI and had access nearby to the 
information she needed about the policy and its rules. I dont think theres evidence that any 
better  or more  information would have changed how Mrs C acted. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman