DRN-2863711
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon declined his critical illness 
insurance claim. 
What happened
On 6 January 2020 Mr A applied for a life and critical illness policy with Aegon. Within the 
application he was asked the following; 
Other than previously stated, in the last five years have you had, been treated for or been 
advised to have follow-up for any of the following, whether or not you have consulted a 
medical practitioner:
Any disorder of the digestive system, liver, stomach, pancreas or bowel, including gastric or 
duodenal ulcer, hepatitis, colitis or Crohns disease?
Are you awaiting the results of any investigations or are you aware of any symptoms or 
complaints that you havent consulted a doctor or received treatment for?
Mr A answered No to the above questions. 
Sadly, after having investigations at a private hospital in January 2020, Mr A was diagnosed 
with bowel cancer and made a claim under his policy in February 2020. 
Aegon reviewed the claim but didnt accept it. It said Mr A failed to answer the above 
questions correctly. It said that Mr A was seen by his GP in August 2018 in relation to the 
frequency of his stools and he was told to have his symptoms investigated. Aegon said Mr A 
was then referred to a gastroenterologist for chronic diarrhoea and was then asked to have 
an urgent two-week referral in April 2019 to exclude cancer after he experienced loose 
stools again. 
Mr A was unhappy with Aegons decision, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt Mr A shouldve answered the 
above questions differently, and if he had, Aegon wouldnt have offered Mr A the policy. So, 
it was entitled to refund the premiums Mr A had paid and cancel the policy. 
Mr A disagreed. He said he was given the all clear by the GP and feeling fit and healthy. He 
said Aegon was unfairly asking him to disclose medical information that wasnt relevant. So, 
he said he didnt answer the questions incorrectly.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr A. I want to assure him that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an 
incredibly difficult time for him. While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say Aegon 
has treated him unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading) provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr A made a misrepresentation when taking 
out this policy, and if so, whether Aegon has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy at all 
or wouldve done so on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?
After considering the above questions, I believe its clear Aegon wanted Mr A to confirm if he 
had ever experienced any of the above symptoms or been asked to follow up on them. He 
answered no. And Ive noted that Aegon sent Mr A the application asking him to check his 
answers which had clear and suitable warnings about the failure to answer these questions 
correctly. So, I believe Aegon sufficiently brought these to Mr As attention. 
Ive seen Mr As GP notes and records. Having done so, Im satisfied he shouldve answered 
the above questions differently. The notes show Mr A making various appointments with his 
GP to discuss diarrhoea, Eosinophilia and issues with his stools which go back to August 
2018. In his appointment in August 2018 he was advised to have a referral which was 
initially refused. 
Mr A then had another appointment a few weeks later where he told the GP he didnt want 
the referral because he felt better. The GP told him to come back if he was concerned, and I 
note Mr A had further appointments in October and December 2018. Then, following another 
appointment in April 2019, Mr A was asked to have another referral to rule out cancer, but he 
refused. Mr A then contacted his GP in November 2019 to ask whether he had ever been 
checked for bowel cancer. 
Im satisfied  on balance - the GP notes show that Mr A must have had some concern for 
his health, which is why he was having regular contact with his GP about his symptoms. And 
it was this information which Aegon wanted to be made aware of when it asked Mr A the 
above questions. As a result, Im satisfied a reasonable person wouldve provided this 
information to Aegon. So, Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation here.
What would Aegon have done differently? It would be unfair to require an insurer to honour a contract when the terms it agreed to were 
influenced by incorrect information. Aegon has said Mr A was careless when he failed to 
answer the above questions correctly. Im not satisfied he deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented his medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise his actions as 
careless here. The questions Aegon asked in its application were clear and Mr A was given 
clear warnings about not providing an accurate medical history. 
So, where there has been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says insurers can re-
underwrite the policy as they wouldve done if theyd received correct answers. 
Aegon has provided us with information from its underwriting department. Ive looked at this 
evidence independently. Aegons normal approach wouldve been to postpone the 
application and await the outcome of any tests which could explain Mr As symptoms. 
Because Mr A went to a private hospital in January 2020, shortly after taking out the policy, 
and was quickly diagnosed with bowel cancer, Im satisfied Aegon wouldnt have accepted 
his application. 
So, Im satisfied Mr A wouldnt have been offered a policy by Aegon if hed disclosed his full 
medical history, and as a result a claim wouldnt have been paid. This means I think it was 
fair for Aegon to cancel Mr As policy and return the premiums paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman