DRN-4076118
The complaint
Mrs A, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs A took out an instalment loan from ELL in July 2019 for £2,000 over 24 months. The 
monthly repayments were £163.75 and the total repayable was £3,930. I understand there 
remains an outstanding balance that is being repaid through a debt management plan.
Mrs A says she was on benefits and this loan caused her a lot of worry trying to keep up with 
the repayments.
Our investigator upheld Mrs As complaint. He said ELLs checks showed the loan would not 
be sustainably affordable for Mrs A, and it had not properly taken into account the cost of 
Mrs A repaying her existing credit card debt sustainably.
Unhappy with this assessment ELL asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in summary, 
Mrs As credit file and bank statements did not suggest the loan would be unaffordable  she 
would be left with £117.74 of monthly disposable income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mrs A required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs A. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mrs A. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs As loan
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mrs A before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of her income and checked this on recent bank statements. It estimated her living 
costs using national statistics and added a buffer to cover unexpected expenses. It also 
checked Mrs As credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and credit 
history. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation and holiday 
costs. From these checks combined ELL concluded Mrs A could afford to take on the loan 
as she would have £117.74 of disposable income left each month.
 
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not satisfied ELL made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. ELL calculated from its checks that Mrs A was 
spending 42% of her income on repaying her debts each month. Whilst this loan was in part 
for debt consolidation, even taking that into account it increased the amount of her income 
Mrs A would need to spend on debt each month to 44%. And this was understated as ELL 
based its assessment on Mrs A making the minimum monthly repayments for her credit card 
debt, rather than allowing for a higher sustainable repayment as it was required to. This 
meant her disposable income was around £65 lower than it had calculated.
So in the round I think it ought to have realised there was a high risk Mrs A would not be 
able to sustainably repay this loan and would most likely need to borrow again to repay, or 
suffer other financial harm  particularly as she had a relatively low income. As indeed went 
on to happen.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to lend to Mrs A.   
I have not seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Mrs A.Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mrs A to repay the capital amount that she borrowed as she had the 
benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have 
been given to her. So she has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mrs A repaid 
and deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mrs As loan account results in her having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs As loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs A via her debt management plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs As credit file in relation to the
loan once the capital balance has been repaid in full.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mrs A
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman