DRN-3135127
The complaint
A company that Ill call E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) granted 
a fraudulent Bounce Back Loan (BBL) which the bank wants it to repay.
The complaint is brought on Es behalf by one of its directors, Mr T. 
What happened
E banks with NatWest. It successfully applied to the bank for a BBL of £8,000 in May 2020, 
and within a few days the loan was drawn down and the funds were paid into Es account. 
Shortly after, the other authorised signatory on Es account  Miss D - made a series of 
transactions transferring all of the loan funds from the account. In October 2020, Mr T 
contacted NatWest and said the BBL had been taken out without his agreement. He said he 
hadnt signed the application form and believed that Miss D had signed this in his name. 
NatWest reviewed Es application and the subsequent payments made from the account and 
said these had been made in line with Es account mandate. It explained that because there 
hadnt been an error, E would still need to make the loan repayments when they fell due 
from June 2021. Mr T didnt think this was fair, so he made a complaint. 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said Miss D had authority to apply on Es 
behalf as she was an authorised signatory and so she could have applied in her own name  
rather than Mr Ts. And as an account signatory, she was also able to authorise payments 
from the account once the loan funds were. Therefore NatWest said the loan was still 
repayable by E.
Mr T didnt agree. He thought it was unfair that E should have to repay the BBL which had 
Miss D had fraudulently applied for - and used the funds from - and asked this service to 
look into Es complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Mr T had received 
emails about the BBL application and could have contacted the bank before it was drawn 
down to report the fraud  rather than waiting until October, five months after the funds were 
released. She also said that NatWest had accepted the application, and executed the 
subsequent payments, in line with the account mandate. So she didnt think the bank had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr T didnt agree. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr T is unhappy as he believes Miss D fraudulently applied for a loan in Es name. He says 
that NatWest should have completed more checks before processing the application to 
ensure the loan was affordable and being used for business purposes. But I dont agree. I 
say that because Ive seen copies of the application completed for E, which  as far as the 
bank was aware  was electronically signed by the director, and had the information relating 
to the business, and the account details for the BBL funds to be paid into, and the 
application confirmation was to be sent to a business email address that was linked to Mr T. 
I think its also worth noting here that we only have Mr Ts version of events about who 
submitted the application on Es behalf, and there is nothing from the other parties to say 
whether his recollection is correct. Mr T has made us aware of the difficult circumstances 
behind the delay in reporting what he says was a fraudulent application to NatWest. 
However, even if I accept that the application wasnt signed by Mr T, I havent seen anything 
that ought reasonably to have given the bank cause to doubt that the application was 
genuine. So I think the process it followed was reasonable.
Im also not persuaded that Mr T didnt know that Miss D had applied for the BBL in Es 
name. I say this because hes told us he received an email about the loan before it was 
drawn down, asked Miss D why shed taken it out and agreed with her that shed pay it back.  
So even if I accept that Mr T didnt sign the application, hes acknowledged that he did 
receive the confirmation email about the loan from the bank. Therefore he could have 
mitigated the impact on E by making the bank aware at that point that he hadnt applied for 
the loan and he didnt want it. Instead he waited until five months later - when the loan funds 
had all been spent. 
Mr T has also questioned why NatWest was allowed to make the payments from Es 
account, which werent business related. However, Miss D was an authorised signatory on 
Es account at the time  and for several years prior to the application - therefore the bank 
released the funds in line with the mandate it held for E. I recognise Mr Ts comments about 
the type of payments that were made, but I wouldnt expect the bank to have queried the 
purpose of each payment. 
I say this because, Ive thought about the payments in the context of the company, and with 
any payments the bank has to strike a balance between the convenience of the payment vs 
the risk of fraud by making the payment. In this case, there didnt appear to be anything 
suspicious about the payments from Es account, so I dont think NatWest had any reason to 
doubt they were genuine and should intercept them. 
Im also persuaded based on the information that Mr T has told us, that if the bank had 
queried the payments with him before releasing them he would have allowed them to go  
as hed agreed with Miss D that she could use the funds and repay them. I think its worth 
noting here that Mr T has also told us theres also a dispute between himself and Miss D as 
to whether or not the BBL funds were actually spent on the business. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think NatWest had any reason to think that Es BBL 
application wasnt genuine, or that there was a dispute between Mr T (as the companys 
director) and Miss D (an account signatory) and therefore that payments shouldnt be 
released from Es account after the BBL funds were credited. So I think its reasonable that E 
is expected to repay the BBL it borrowed. And if E is in financial difficulty and unable to make 
the repayments, it should contact NatWest directly to see what options the bank has 
available to assist it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman