DRN-3797460
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC restricted 
access to its bank account for longer than necessary.
Mr K is one of Ls partners and brings the complaint on the partnerships behalf.
What happened
L banked with Barclays, holding a business current account and a client account (the latter 
being an account designated for the sole purpose of holding funds belonging to Ls clients, 
rather than its own).
One of the services L offers its customers is the procurement of tax rebates from HM 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC). L received eight payments into its client account on 23 
April 2020, which it says were tax rebates due to its clients.
Barclays restricted Ls access to its accounts shortly after these payments were received. 
The bank says this was in response to notification from HMRC that the eight payments were 
potentially fraudulent as a result of a large scale fraudulent attack that was affecting a large 
number of transactions.
Barclays conducted a review of Ls accounts with a view to returning any payments that it 
could recover  but as it concluded that the funds in question had already been spent, no 
action was needed.  The review led the bank to end its relationship with L, and it wrote to the 
partnership on 8 May to advise that it would be closing its accounts on 12 July. The 
restriction on Ls accounts remained in place and L was only able to access its funds when 
they were released on 10 July.
Mr K complained about Barclays actions, particularly unhappy with how long the account 
restrictions had been in place and at misinformation hed received when speaking to the 
bank about the matter.
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. In summary, it said:
It had applied the restriction legitimately, with a view to preventing the funds at issue 
being spent in light of the HMRC notification. 
It should, however, have removed the block sooner  on realising that the funds had 
been spent, there was no need for it to have remained in place.
It had misinformed Mr K when advising that the funds would be returned to HMRC.
Its decision to close Ls accounts was subject to a strict internal review process and 
wouldnt be changed.
In response to Ls intention to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan, it had 
advised Mr K to await a call back  before belatedly confirming that the partnership 
wouldnt be eligible to apply, due to the closure of its accounts.
By way of apology and recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, Barclays paid 
£600 to Ls account. But Mr K remained unhappy, and referred the matter to us. He said that 
Barclays delay in releasing the funds had delayed the onward payment of tax rebates to 
clients, for which L had to write off invoices for its work totalling £2,080 and leading to loss of 
future business from the clients. He also said that the matter had damaged Ls reputation 
and thought that compensation for the time hed spent dealing with the matter was 
insufficient.
One of our investigators reviewed Ls complaint. She didnt recommend that Barclays take 
any further action, as:
It had been reasonable for Barclays to restrict and review Ls accounts in response to 
the information received from HMRC.
Barclays had concluded that the funds had been spent and therefore didnt return 
them to HMRC. But she thought the funds had actually remained in the account. 
Therefore, had things gone as they should have, those funds would have been 
returned to HMRC. And she thought this wouldve meant Ls business wouldve been 
impacted in much the same way as it was  in that the clients wouldnt have received 
their tax rebates, and so L would have suffered the same losses.
There was an undisputed delay in the release of the funds, but the £600 
compensation that Barclays had already paid L for this was fair.
Barclays was entitled to close Ls accounts and had done so in line with the 
applicable terms and conditions.
L was ineligible to apply to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan once its accounts were 
being closed. And the banks actions hadnt prejudiced Ls ability to apply elsewhere.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He said that if Barclays had returned the funds in 
question to HMRC, L could then have obtained payment from HMRC to a different account  
which he thought wouldve been a quicker process than the experience with Barclays. So he 
didnt think it was fair to say L wouldve been in the same position and still thought Barclays 
should compensate the partnership for the consequential losses arising from the delay in 
releasing the funds.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed slightly from those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision on Ls complaint earlier this month and invited both parties to let me have any 
further comments or information that they wanted me to take into account before making my 
final decision. 
I said:
As I understand Mr K accepts, Barclays didnt do anything wrong when initially 
applying a restriction to Ls accounts and conducting a review. The terms and conditions of Ls accounts allowed the bank to take such action and Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable for Barclays to do so in light of the information received from 
HMRC about the eight credits to Ls account and in the fulfilment of its legal and 
regulatory obligations. The bank was also entitled to end its relationship with L, and 
did so in a manner that complied with the terms and conditions.
There has been some confusion as to the action that Barclays took  or, at least, 
shouldve taken  in respect of the eight payments. The bank says that it wouldve 
returned the payments to HMRC had the funds remained in the account, but could 
not do so as they had already been spent. While there were funds available in the 
account, the issue is whether the funds in question had already been utilised. Very 
broadly speaking, this is based on the first in, first out common law principles 
established by what is typically known as Claytons case. 
From what Ive seen of the account activity, I accept that it may not have been 
possible for Barclays to return the funds to HMRC. Ls account balance on 22 April 
was just under £30,000. L then received the £17,000 in question the following day. 
That day, it made payments totalling around £23,000. Approximately £20,500 was 
paid out of the account before the end of April. And a further £21,000 was paid out up 
to and including 5 May. So quite feasibly, by the time Barclays had completed its 
review there were no funds originating from the transactions in question left to return. 
That said, it is unclear why Barclays restriction wouldnt have prevented the funds in 
question from being utilised while its review was in process  and therefore being 
available for return to HMRC. In any event, I dont think the fact that the funds werent 
returned to HMRC has prejudiced Ls position. I accept that it may have then been 
able to obtain the funds more quickly than proved to be the case with Barclays, but it 
may not have been.  
Either way, Barclays ought to have removed the restriction once its review was 
complete. I understand the banks timeframe for such a matter to be 10 working 
days. And that represents a reasonable expectation. So if things had gone as they 
shouldve done, Ls access to its accounts wouldve been fully restored on or around 
8 May 2020. But that didnt happen, and the partnership was only able to access its 
funds on 10 July. 
Mr K says that as a consequence of the banks delay, L was delayed by two months 
in remitting the tax rebates to the affected clients. This, he says, meant that L 
suffered consequential losses in two ways  firstly in having to write off the fees that 
L would otherwise have received for the work it did in obtaining these rebates, and 
secondly in losing future business from these clients. Ive carefully considered 
everything Mr K has said and provided to us on these points but, having done so, I 
dont currently think it would be fair to require Barclays to compensate L for the 
losses being claimed. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr K describes L as having been forced to write off the amounts that it was owed 
for the work carried out in obtaining the rebates in question. I dont think that is a 
reasonable position. L had evidently carried out the work and obtained the rebates as 
it was instructed to do. And the delays were outside of its control. Mr K has advised 
that it would ordinarily deduct its fee from the rebate and forward the remainder on to 
its client, which it could still have done. It chose not to do so. And Mr K hasnt 
demonstrated that any attempts were made to resolve the matter with any of its 
clients beforehand  at least, for example, accepting a partial reduction in the full 
amount billed. So I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for 
these losses, which I think L couldve mitigated.In respect of lost future business, I dont think I can say with any level of certainty that 
the clients in question wouldve returned to L for further work were it not for the 
delays in obtaining their rebates. And even if they wouldve done, what this work 
wouldve been and at what profit to L. Mr K has also been unable to provide any 
contemporaneous evidence of the clients discontent or Ls attempts to resolve the 
situation and so, again, there is little to show that reasonable attempts were made to 
mitigate any losses in this respect.
It is evident, however, that the delay wouldve put L to some avoidable 
inconvenience. Mr K was engaged in a number of phone calls to the bank that he 
would not otherwise have been, in seeking an explanation and chasing things up. 
This was exacerbated by misinformation from the bank as to what was happening, 
prompting Mr K to call HMRC unnecessarily. While there is limited evidence to 
confirm the position, I accept there would also have been some level of additional 
work in liaising with the affected clients. And  while Im not currently intending to 
hold the bank liable for the financial losses suffered as a result of it for the reasons 
given above  I can also see that there would have been some damage to Ls 
reputation.
Barclays has also accepted that it ought to have been clearer with Mr K as to how the 
matter impacted Ls ability to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. I understand 
that Mr K attempted to apply online in early May, after the Loan Scheme was 
launched, but was unable to complete an application or see why. And when he called 
the bank, he was repeatedly told to wait while a technical issue was resolved. It was 
only some time  and several calls  later, in June, that the bank confirmed L would 
be unable to apply due to the pending closure of its accounts. That position ought 
reasonably to have been relayed sometime sooner, without the need for several 
requests from Mr K.
Taking all of this into account, I am currently intending to require Barclays to increase 
the total compensation payable to L to £800  requiring a further payment of £200 on 
top of the £600 thats already been paid.
I understand Mr K doesnt think such compensation is sufficient, primarily as he has 
calculated an alternative amount based on his hourly rate and billable time. We dont 
typically award compensation based on a complainants hourly rate  rather we look 
at the overall impact that the financial businesss mistake had. And while I accept that 
dealing with this matter wouldve taken Mr K away from Ls day-to-day activities, Ive 
not seen that it caused a loss of business such that a separate award for financial 
loss ought to be made.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr K confirmed that L had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no further information for me to take into account, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. So this final decision simply confirms my provisional 
findings, as set out above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay L a further £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman