DRN-4106003
The complaint
Mr M complains Equifax Limited have incorrect information on his credit file, leading to him 
being unfairly turned down for a credit card on two occasions.
What happened
In July 2020, and again in October 2020, Mr M applied for a credit card with a different bank. 
Hes explained the bank told him it was after reviewing the information by the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) that meant they couldnt provide him with a credit card.
Mr M got a copy of his statutory credit report from Equifax and said this incorrectly showed 
he still had an outstanding balance of £4,328 from his bank (who Ill call L)  when hed paid 
that off in August 2020. He said Equifax were the only CRA who showed this outstanding 
balance.
Equifax said theyd raised Mr Ms query with L, who replied and said the balance was correct 
on both occasions. Equifax also explained they can only amend the data they hold with the 
data owners permission. Here that was L, and as L said the data was correct, they couldnt 
do anything to amend the balance showing outstanding.
Unhappy with this Mr M asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, and 
ultimately found Equifax hadnt done anything wrong. She also said even if she thought 
Equifax had done something wrong, its unlikely wed be able to say the sole reason Mr M 
was turned down for the two credit card applications is due to this error  purely because of 
the amount of different things lenders check.
Mr M didnt accept this and said if Equifax didnt do anything wrong then L must have done 
something wrong. As Mr M didnt agree with our Investigator, this complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only addresses Equifaxs actions  Ls actions are addressed in a separate 
decision.
I think its helpful to explain as a starting point CRAs such as Equifax arent the owner of the 
data they display  the companies who supply the data are. This means generally Equifax 
wouldnt be able to amend the information provided unless the data owner agrees it should 
be amended.
Instead, what wed expect to happen is for Equifax to raise disputes to the data owner, L in 
this case, and then see what reply comes back.
Ive seen evidence of Equifax raising disputes when Mr M got in touch to say the outstanding 
balance of £4,328 on his credit card was wrong. But each time when L replied they didnt say 
the balance was incorrect. This meant Equifax didnt have authority from L to amend the 
information they were displaying. So, I dont think they did anything wrong here.
There has though been a dispute between Equifax and L about the data provided. L say on 
20 October 2020 they told all the CRAs including Equifax to update Mr Ms credit card 
balance to £0. Equifax have provided a screenshot to show the update received on 
20 October 2020 said the balance on Mr Ms credit card was £4,328  and its this figure 
they displayed.
Overall then, Equifax disputed the information at Mr Ms request. L said the data was correct, 
and the evidence I have shows the data supplied to Equifax was a balance of £4,328 rather 
than a balance of £0. Under the circumstances, I cant see that Equifax have made any 
errors. And, as Ive found Equifax havent made any errors, that means I cant say theyre 
responsible for Mr Ms credit card applications being turned down.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman