DRN-1676098
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance held 
with UK Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held their home insurance policy for many years. 
The policy was taken out through Bank A in the 1990s. In 2002 the policy was migrated to 
the insurer UKI. As UKI was the insurer from 2002, it was responsible for setting the price 
and is therefore responsible for this complaint.
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs W received their renewal quote. They shopped around and 
found that they were able to obtain cheaper insurance  with the insurer still being UKI.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs W chose not to renew their policy and took out the alternative 
cheaper insurance. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W complained to UKI. They say they were treated 
unfairly by UKI, paying too much over the years. Mr and Mrs W consider UKI should refund 
them the extra they had paid towards the policy over the years.
UKI looked into Mr and Mrs Ws concerns and considered it hadnt done anything wrong.
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs W referred the matter to our service. 
While the complaint was with our service, as a gesture of goodwill, UKI offered to refund 
some of the cost of the insurance to resolve the complaint.
UKI offered to refund to Mr and Mrs W the amount paid above the 2008 premium from 2009 
up until 2019 (when the policy was cancelled). This totalled £2,373.27. It also explained it 
would include additional compensation set at 8% simple interest per year  to compensate 
Mr and Mrs W for being out of pocket of that money. This totalled £1,000.69 (after tax). 
Its offer came to £3,373.96, which it then rounded up to £3,400. It then offered an additional 
£100 as compensation for the trouble Mr and Mrs W had been caused.  
So in total, UKI offered £3,500 to resolve the complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Having looked at UKIs offer, she thought 
it was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr and Mrs W responded saying that UKIs offer of compensation wasnt enough and 
considered they should have been charged around £500 since 2002. So Mr and Mrs W 
estimated the compensation should be around £13,000.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats happened, I agree with our investigator. I think UKIs 
offer of compensation is fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, so 
Id like to explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. 
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently  and will charge different premiums based on 
that assessment of risk. One insurer may decide its taking a significant risk insuring a 
particular property, whereas another insurer might not  and there can differing factors and 
reasons for each insurers decision. Ultimately, its up to an insurer to decide what it charges 
for insurance  and I dont have the power to tell an insurer whether that price is right or 
wrong.
But I can look at whether UKI treated Mr and Mrs W fairly throughout the time they held their 
home insurance policy with it. If I find that UKI hasnt treated Mr and Mrs W fairly, I will look 
to see what compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what UKI has 
offered is fair.
When the policy was migrated to UKI in 2002, it cost £652.05 for the year. By 2013, the 
insurance cost £1,800.94. 
In 2014, Mr and Mrs W switched to Bank As Private Insurance  which was still 
underwritten by UKI. In 2014, the policy cost £1,111.88.
The policys cost increased over the years and in 2018 it had increased to £1,346.03
From 2002 until 2014 the policys cost increased, and while it reduced in 2014, it then started 
to increase in cost again  so Ive looked to see what happened.
Aside from the first year (2002), when Mr and Mrs W called to renew their policy, their policy 
automatically renewed each year. With automatic renewals there is a chance that if a 
consumer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around, they can find they are 
paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly  
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost. 
From looking the contact Mr and Mrs W had with UKI over the years, I can see that in 2002 
Mr and Mrs W called to renew the insurance. So presumably they were aware of the cost 
and found it acceptable at that time.
In 2003, there was contact made with UKI mid-term to increase the contents sum insured. In 
2008, the buildings insurance sum insured was increased mid-term following a loft 
extension.So while the premiums increased in the early years, there were legitimate reasons for the 
increases. Im also satisfied Mr and Mrs W were aware of the cost in 2002. And then in 2003 
and 2008, when they made the amendments to their policy, Im satisfied they were likely 
aware of the impact to their premium. So I cant say UKI had treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly 
or the increases were because Mr and Mrs W werent engaging with the cost.
But after 2008, Mr and Mrs W didnt contact UKI and their policy automatically renewed. The 
premium continued to increase until 2014 when Mr and Mrs W switched to the Private 
Insurance which was also underwritten by UKI. The premium reduced at this time, and 
again presumably Mr and Mrs W were aware of the cost and also found it acceptable. Im 
also mindful that Mr and Mrs W would have been aware at this point that they could switch 
insurance and save money. So they could have, shopped around further at this point  or in 
later years. 
Following the switch in 2014, Mr and Mrs W didnt engage with the cost at renewal and the 
cost increased in price over the years until it was cancelled in 2019.
Having looked at Mr and Mrs Ws journey overall, there was some engagement over the 
years but there were also some periods where Mr and Mrs W didnt engage, the policy 
automatically renewed and the premiums increased.
But in this case, UKI has offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance premiums 
Mr and Mrs W paid from 2009 up until the policy was cancelled in 2019. 
Essentially, its frozen their premium at the 2008 price, which makes sure they havent lost 
out if UKI did increase the premium unfairly from this point on. And its used 2008s price 
across both policies. So at any point from 2009 onwards, if the price was above 2008s 
premium  UKI has offered the difference of what they paid above that. All things considered 
I think this is fair.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W ultimately got alternative insurance for a lot less (by 
obtaining a newer policy  that was also underwritten by UKI) and feel this shows they were 
overcharged by UKI over the years. 
As Mr and Mrs Ws new policy cost around £500 they consider they should get back 
anything they have paid over that amount for every year they held their policy with UKI. 
Mr and Mrs W have worked this out to be around £13,000. I can certainly understand their 
concerns when comparing what they are paying now to what they were paying then  but I 
dont think that approach is quite right. Ill explain why.
Policies taken out now often come with a significant initial discount, with insurers aiming to 
keep the consumer and recoup the discount over the following years. Consumers can also 
choose from various levels of cover and can also choose what limits and excesses they wish 
to have. 
More recently, online practices and comparison websites have meant ever more competitive 
prices. And some consumers can now manage their policies online meaning less 
administrative costs to insurers  with the resulting savings being applied to reduce the cost 
a consumer pays for cover.
Insurers can also have a different perception of the risk a consumer presents  and again 
the cost between insurers can be different based on that perceived risk.These things combined mean that the cost of insurance can be markedly different in price for 
a policy taken out now, compared to one taken out many years ago. The cost of insurance 
taken out now can also vary significantly from policy to policy and insurer to insurer.
So while Mr and Mrs W have obtained a policy for less now, for the reasons explained, I 
dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of that recent policy with the policy taken and 
held for many years with UKI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, UK Insurance Limiteds offer to refund some of the costs of 
Mr and Mrs Ws home insurance policy from 2009 until the policy was cancelled is fair.
UK Insurance Limiteds further additional compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused 
to Mr and Mrs W is also fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman