DRN-3063050
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have declined his claim for 
approximately £50,000 of contents hed reported as stolen, following a burglary at his 
property. Hes also complained that Aviva have unfairly voided his policy. 
What happened
On 8 July 2020, Mr C contacted Aviva to notify them that both of his cars had been stolen 
from his driveway, together with various contents that were covered by an insurance policy 
he held with Aviva. 
On 2 December 2020, Mr C sent Aviva a list of stolen items, including a drone, watch and 
iPad totalling £54,755.33. On the same day Aviva informed Mr C that because he had 
initially told them that no saddles or chainsaws were taken, but had now included them in the 
list of stolen items, together with the high value watch and drone, Aviva would be appointing 
loss adjusters (who Ill refer to as S) to manage the claim on their behalf and confirm that an 
insurable event had taken place. 
On 29 January 2021, S issued a challenge letter to Mr Cs loss assessor explaining why his 
claim was being declined.
S issued their investigation report on 12 March 2021 which detailed a suspicion rating of 
confirmed fraud. They said that while they had no doubt a burglary had happened and the 
cars had been stolen, based on the evidence to hand, it appeared that Mr C had taken the 
opportunity to add items to the claim that werent stolen. They explained theyd put the 
challenge to Mr C, but hed failed to provide any response. In the absence of a response, the 
claim was declined on the basis that Mr C was in breach of the fraud condition. S also 
recommended the policy be voided from the date the drone was added to the loss list, so 
from 10 December 2020.
A letter confirming the claim had been declined was sent by S to Mr C on 13 March 2021.
On 13 April 2021, S again wrote to Mr C to say that their enquiries confirmed that part of the 
claim Mr C had made was dishonest and the fraud condition of the policy had been 
breached. As a result, his claim had been declined in its entirety due to the breach of the 
condition. S also said theyd reported back to Aviva on that basis and had recommended 
they consider taking action as a result of the breach of the fraud condition.
26 April 2021, Mr C complained to Aviva about the policy being voided and that he wasnt 
getting a refund. He also disputed that the claim was fraudulent.
Aviva issued their final response to Mr C on 4 May 2021 explaining why they were not 
upholding his complaint. They said Mr C had claimed for some items that were in the house 
at the time of the incident, but there had been no evidence to suggest the thieves had gained 
access to the house. They explained that the claim had been declined by S, on their behalf, 
who were still awaiting a response from Mr C. Referral rights were given to our service.
Unhappy with Avivas response to his complaint, on 7 May 2021, Mr C referred his complaint 
to our service. 
On 4 August 2021, Mr C contacted our service to advise us that the stolen items had now 
been recovered. He said that as Aviva felt his claim was fraudulent or exaggerated, he felt 
we now need to look at the case and let them know theyve acted incorrectly.
Then on 6 August 2021, Mr C again contacted our service to confirm that hed told us in his 
initial call about the complaint, in May 2021, that he thought his drone had been stolen but 
then found it in his garage. Our investigator confirmed that he had told us that.
In email correspondence with Mr C on 10 August 2021, S explained that the claim appeared 
exaggerated with the introduction of the drone, and it was confirmed by the police that the 
drone was never part of the loss list submitted to them.
Avivas solicitors wrote to Mr C on 10 August 2021 requiring payment of £12,540.08 to be 
made to Aviva, which included the sums paid by Aviva in partial settlement of the claim 
together with the costs they incurred in investigating the claim
After investigating Mr Cs complaint our investigator issued her view, not upholding the 
complaint, on 9 September 2021. She concluded that, on the basis of the evidence 
available, Aviva hadnt unfairly declined the claim.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view and requested a decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to explain that although Ive not addressed each of the points Mr C has made, I 
have carefully considered all of the information hes provided, including his recollection of 
events. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to Mr C, but as we are an informal service, Ive 
focused my decision on the key points relevant to Mr Cs complaint.
I also need to say at the outset that its not my role to determine exactly what happened 
when Mr Cs cars and contents were stolen. Nor is it for me to make any kind of ruling about 
whether or not a fraud has been committed. Ultimately thats a matter for the courts and the 
relevant enforcement agencies to decide.
Mr C brought a complaint to this service about Avivas decision to both decline a claim he 
made under his contents insurance, and to void his policy. My role is to look at how Aviva 
made those decisions and decide whether or not Aviva has treated Mr C fairly and 
reasonably. So, my decision is about whether Avivas done something wrong here.
The policy terms and conditions detailing the cover provided for lost contents under the 
policy are detailed on page 10. In particular, the policy terms confirm that the loss of 
contents in the home (including garages) caused by theft will be covered by the policy. Its 
not disputed that items were stolen from Mr Cs property, so it follows that the stolen items 
would be potentially covered under this section.
However, that cover is subject to certain exclusions which are detailed on page 35 of the 
policy terms and conditions. Under the heading General Conditions paragraph 5 says:
5. FraudIf your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any benefit under 
this policy or return any premium to you and we may cancel your policy immediately 
and backdate the cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take 
legal action against you.
In relying on the exclusion quoted above, the onus falls to Aviva to show that it applies. In 
deciding whether Aviva have fairly declined Mr Cs claim Ive considered all of the available 
evidence and have referred to the key evidence below.  
When appointing S as their loss adjusters for the claim, Aviva said their main concerns were 
that Mr C was claiming his £20,000 drone had been stolen, along with saddles, chainsaws, a 
Breitling watch and an iPad, which hadnt been mentioned when he first notified them of the 
claim. So, there are a number of items Aviva mentioned when explaining why they were 
applying the exclusion to Mr Cs claim. I dont need to be satisfied that each and every item 
Aviva has highlighted, were dishonestly notified to them, as part of the claim. If just one item 
was added to the claim, that wasnt taken during the burglary, that is sufficient to conclude 
that the claim has likely been exaggerated. So, for the purpose of making my decision on 
Mr Cs complaint, Ive focused on whether or not Mr C likely exaggerated his claim by 
including the drone in the list of stolen items provided to Aviva.
On 8 July 2020, when first notifying Aviva of his claim, Mr C said he didnt think anything had 
been taken from the garage, and he listed approximately 15 items that would have been in 
the cars.
In addition, the transcript of that phone call, provided by Aviva records Mr C as saying: 
I do a lot of droning but luckily it was in the house and it has not been touched as it 
was hidden in the staircase, so luckily it was under the stairs. 
On 2 December 2020, Mr C provided Aviva with a list of stolen items which included the 
drone. Then on 10 December 2020, during his interview with S, Mr C confirmed that his 
drone had been stolen.
S said theyd spoken to the police on 27 January 2021, who confirmed the offenders were 
only on the premises for four minutes and there was no evidence that they had broken into 
or entered the house. They also said the police had confirmed that there was no mention of 
the drone having been stolen, and it wasnt included on the loss list. S said they therefore 
failed to see how the drone could have been stolen from the house. They recommended the 
claim be declined in its entirely and the policy be voided from the date the drone was added 
to the loss list. 
In May 2021, when Mr C spoke to one of our investigators he said that he thought his drone 
had been stolen, but then found it in his garage. 
On 26 August 2021, Mr C provided his recollection of events to our investigator. He said that 
for several months he kept his drone in the boot of his car, however, he recalls moving it into 
the hallway of the property and it was there for some time. He explained that he or his 
partner must have moved the drone into the garage, then acting in good faith he notified all 
the parties that the drone had been found. He went on to say that when the property was 
burgled, and they somehow managed to get into the property he assumed the drone had 
been taken, but sometime later he found it under some carpet. 
In response to our investigators view on 16 September 2021, Mr C said in respect of the 
drone, he didnt deny that he subsequently included it in the claim as he reasonably believed 
that it had been taken. He said that when he realised his mistake he rectified it immediately and informed all concerned parties that the drone had been found. 
Mr Cs loss assessors report to S, dated 8 January 2021, also commented on the drone. 
They said that Mr C had advised his drone was located behind the front door. It had been in 
his vehicle that day until he removed it and placed it behind his front door to make room for 
tack / riding equipment. With regard to why Mr C didnt mention the drone when he first 
notified Aviva of his claim, the loss assessor explained that Mr C was told to provide a list in 
due course, and at the time his priority was with the security of the property and potential 
issues relating to his horses.
Where the evidence is incomplete, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think, more likely than not happened.
A number of explanations have been provided for why Mr C later added the drone to his 
claim. However, I dont find those explanations to be persuasive. As peoples recollections 
can fade over time, I find that evidence provided near the date of the event to be more 
persuasive than recollections provided several months later. During the initial call when Mr C 
notified Aviva of his claim, with regard to the drone he said: luckily it was in the house and it 
has not been touched. Five months later he included his drone on the loss list. Subsequent 
to that he provided a number of explanations as to why hed done that. Taking everything 
into account, I think it more likely than not that Mr C exaggerated his claim by including the 
drone on the list of lost items when it had remained in his possession throughout. So, Im 
satisfied that Aviva have provided sufficient evidence to support their decision to both 
decline Mr Cs claim and void his policy. Im also satisfied that applying the policy terms to 
Mr Cs circumstances hasnt produced an unfair outcome for him. I therefore dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman