DRN-4472365
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim for Permanent Total 
Disablement (PTD) under a personal accident policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs S made a claim for PTD under a personal accident policy she benefitted from.
She sustained injuries as a result of being hit by a vehicle whilst abroad in September 
2018.The claim was initially declined by Covea in 2020 on the basis that the policy definition 
of PTD hadnt been met.
Unhappy, Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In April 2022 our 
investigator upheld the complaint on the basis that the policy terms and conditions said the 
benefit would only be paid for PTD when disablement had lasted for 104 consecutive weeks 
and had been certified as permanent by a specialist. 
As the claim was assessed within 104 weeks of the accident, our investigator recommended 
the claim now be reassessed in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Both parties 
accepted the recommendation. 
Covea reassessed the claim and by way of a final response dated September 2022, it 
concluded:
Having reviewed the claim again after the 104-week period as requested by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, it is our decision that the claim remains declined. You 
were permanent totally disabled as defined in the policy prior to the accident in 
September 2018 and therefore no further claim benefit is due.
Unhappy, Mrs S raised a further complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed so 
this complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold this complaint. 
Covea didnt respond. Mrs S replied that she was happy with my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea has a regulatory obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it 
mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
The relevant policy terms
The policy defines PTD as:
Disablementwhich will entirely prevent you from engaging in any occupation of any 
and every type and description, for the remainder of your life without hope of 
recovery.
And the PTD benefit will be paid if:
You suffer accidental injury during the period of insurance which within 12 months of 
occurring directly results inPTD
Has Covea acted fairly and reasonably?
Based on the available medical evidence, Im not persuaded that Covea has fairly and 
reasonably concluded that Mrs S already met the policy definition of PTD at the time of the 
accident. So I uphold this complaint and direct Covea to reassess the claim.
Ive seen an occupational health specialist report dated November 2019. The report 
concludes:
Mrs S has had very severe osteoarthritis with very restricted upper limb movements. 
She had difficulties with activities of daily living and required support with these.
Although the GP states that Mrs S may have been able to work, in an administrative 
role prior to the accident, theres little evidence of this and indeed the evidence we 
have suggests quite the opposite. There were very significant shoulder and elbow 
problems with very limited movements, severe pain and the need for strong pain 
killers as a result of rheumatoid arthritis. There is no evidence that Mrs S was indeed 
potentially able to work in an administrative role.
Upper limb problems, elbow and shoulder pain and deformity were all present in the 
months prior to the accident.
Im satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that the occupational report doesnt provide any 
opinion on whether Mrs S was prevented from working for the remainder of her life without 
hope of recovery, as required by the policy terms. The focus is on whether, in the authors 
opinion, Mrs S was able to work before the accident.
Theres mention in medical records of Mrs S not working for 15 years prior to the accident. 
And Im satisfied from what Ive read that she did have many health issues including 
shortness of breath, joint degeneration, and longstanding rheumatoid arthritis in several 
joints.
However, in July 2018, Mrs Ss consultant orthopaedic surgeon writes that Mrs S had opted 
for a total elbow replacement and had recently started new medication  an 
immunosuppressive drug.And in September 2018, her consultant physician and rheumatologist reported that Mrs S 
had responded both clinically and biochemically to the new medication. And she didnt have 
any tender joints except one of her elbows and four swollen joints which were chronic. Her 
visual analog pain scale had reduced to 2 out of ten.
These two medical records are dated from shortly before the accident and suggest an 
improvement in her condition. She was also having surgery on her elbow to try and alleviate 
the pain and increase flexibility. And the conclusions of both reports havent been referenced 
in the occupational health report referred to above.
So, I dont think Coveas position that Mrs S already met the definition of PTD at the time of 
the accident is medically supported based on the evidence provided to date. And I dont 
think Covea has fairly relied on this reason to decline the claim.
Putting things right
I direct Covea Insurance plc to reassess the PTD claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy on the basis that theres currently insufficient medical evidence to support that Mrs 
S already met the definition of PTD at the time of the accident in September 2018.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman