DRN-2066709
The complaint
 Mr S says Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, was responsible for a delay in 
establishing his annuity. As a result, he believes theres a period of several days each year 
when, if he were to die, his estate would lose a whole years annuity income.
What happened
Mr S took out a personal pension plan with Aegon in 1985. An important feature of his plan 
was a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). This meant when he retired, he was protected from 
falling rates and could rely on a known minimum annuity rate that would be applied to his 
fund depending on when he decided to take the benefits.
Its of note that by 2016 Aegon had taken the commercial decision to sell the bulk of its 
annuity business. However, it recognised it had responsibility for ensuring customers like Mr 
S should still be able to benefit from the guarantees associated with their pension plans. So, 
as part of the deal it arrived at with Legal & General (L&G), which bought the bulk of the 
business, it undertook to meet any resulting costs.
Mr S was entitled to take advantage of the GAR provisions in his pension plan at any point 
from when he turned 60 in 2011 until his 75th birthday. Although attractive in many respects, 
the guarantee also came with certain conditions. 
For example, an annuity under the contract was only available on a single life basis, with no 
guaranteed period and no escalation. The pension was only payable annually in arrears. 
And when Mr S died his final pension income would be the last due annual payment he 
received preceding his death.
Mr S approached Aegon on 25 September 2017 shortly after his 66th birthday. He requested 
a retirement options quote. He was sent information together with a benefits illustration. Mr S 
then requested tailored information based on utilising only a portion of his fund. A furtherr 
illustration was provided showing the tax-free cash (TFC) and annual income this would 
generate.
Aegon says it received a request from L&G to transfer a portion of Mr Ss pension funds on 
18 October 2017. It processed the settlement 4 working days later. By the time funds had 
cleared through bank accounts Mr Ss effective pension date was 27 October with his first 
payment due in 2018.
Mr Ss principle concern is that the arrangement between Aegon and L&G caused a delay in 
the establishment of his annuity. He says his retirement date should be 18 October when the 
paperwork was completed, not 27 October when the firms involved finalised matters.
Mr S says this delay means theres a period of several days each year when his death would 
result in the loss of almost a years annuity income that wouldve been paid if his pension 
had been set up immediately when he returned his application. Mr S has told us he doesnt 
want a monetary award. He simply wants the date his annuity is paid each year to reflect 
what he considers to be his correct retirement date  the 18 October.
Mr S has also raised a number of other concerns about what happened. For example, he 
thinks Aegon underpaid the top-up it provided to L&G to meet in full its obligations to pay 
his annuity. He believes both companies have benefitted by tens of millions of pounds from 
delaying annuities at the expense of potentially thousands of consumers.
Mr S says he had no choice in using L&G to provide his annuity. It was Aegon which had 
taken the decision to withdraw from the market and come to a commercial arrangement with 
another firm and he shouldnt be disadvantaged by that decision. Mr S says our Service 
should consider his complaint as against both companies jointly.
Mr S says that while he cant point to a financial loss at the moment, it shouldnt be for his 
Estate on his passing to have to bring a complaint to have the matter dealt with at that time 
should it be necessary. The issue can and should be resolved now.
Aegon said Mr S hadnt been disadvantaged by the agreement it had with L&G for arranging 
annuities for its personal pension plan customers. It said it received a request to transfer 
funds on 18 October 2017. It set up the claim according to its procedure and the annuity 
couldnt start straight away because it had to carry out certain checks first, for example 
verifying his identity. It processed the payment on 24 October 2017, four working days after 
the request was made.
In its final response to Mr S Aegon also said that while he had suggested there could be a 
loss to his Estate in the future if he died during the same period in the year when his annuity 
was being set up, this was a hypothetical scenario. It said that if in the future his executors 
thought it was responsible for causing such a loss then they would have to raise a complaint 
at that point.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss main complaint about the delay to his annuity being set 
up. But she did recommend Aegon should pay him £150 because she thought it hadnt made 
clear to him what the timescales were likely to be. Both parties disagreed and so his case 
has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I can see from his submissions Mr S has a very strong sense that both Aegon and L&G have 
done wrong. As he now knows, this Service cant join third parties to complaints, so we cant 
do what he wanted us to do which was to consider his case jointly against both parties.
That said, I know Mr S has brought a separate complaint against L&G, and so this decision 
will focus on Aegons role and responsibility for what happened. And Im not blind to the 
arguments hes made, which Ive thought about carefully in arriving at my findings in this 
case.Mr S is concerned not only about the potential financial detriment hes suffered, but also 
about the impact on other consumers. While I recognise the points hes made in that regard, 
this Service was established to resolve cases between individual eligible complainants and 
respondent businesses. Of course, we have a wider responsibility to gather insights from the 
body of complaints we see and share these with sector stakeholders.
Ive arrived at broadly the same conclusions as the investigator for similar reasons. So, I 
wont be upholding Mr Ss main complaint. Ill explain why.
Turning to the matter at the heart of Mr Ss case against Aegon - was it responsible for a 
delay in establishing his annuity? My starting point is the terms and conditions document for 
his personal pension plan. I think the following extracts are important.
The Pension Date is defined in the following terms (bolding is my emphasis):
Pension Date means the Pension Date selected or to be selected by the Member
The Pension Date of a Policy shall be a date selected by the Member of which written 
notice shall be given to the Society, and shall be a date not earlier than the sixtieth 
birthday of the Member (or the Assumed Retirement Date if it is earlier than the sixtieth 
birthday) or later than the seventy fifth birthday of the MemberWhere any of the Allotted 
Units are Units of the Property Fund, the Member shall give one years notice of the date 
selected. In other cases, notice shall be given not less than one month and not more 
than three months before the date selected.
The investigator found that Mr S gave Aegon written notice of his intention to take benefits 
from his pension fund when he sent his application to L&G, on 18 October 2017. Mr S didnt 
dispute this or inform us that hed given earlier notice. Strictly speaking then, if hed wanted 
his annuity paid on 18 October each year, he shouldve informed Aegon at any point 
between 19 July 2017 and 19 September 2017.
The investigator also concluded that the terms didnt specify when an annuity would start, for 
example on the Pension Date, or when the application was completed or received, or at 
some other point. I dont agree with this finding. Mr Ss personal pension plan sets out the 
following terms in this regard (bolding is my emphasis):
On the Pension Date of a Policy the Allotted Units will be cancelled and the Retirement 
Value will be the total value at the Bid Price of all of the Allotted Units
On the Pension Date of a Policy the Retirement Value will be applied to purchase from the 
Society under the Policy a retirement annuity on the life of the Member payable during the 
lifetime of the Member, the first payment falling due one year after the Pension Date and 
the last on the yearly due date immediately preceding his death
So, I think its clear that Mr Ss annuity was due to be paid one year in arrears of his Pension 
Date. But as Ive found, Aegon didnt receive notice of his planned retirement date prior to 
his submitting his application on 18 October 2018.
Next, I thought about Aegons decision to withdraw from the annuities market and to sell 
most of its interest to L&G. While it clearly has the freedom to take the commercial decisions 
it feels appropriate for the benefit of its business and its stakeholders, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for it to do so with the intention or effect as to avoid its obligations to existing 
customers.I think Aegons agreement with L&G recognised and provided for certain obligations it had to 
ensure customers werent disadvantaged. For example, it gave an undertaking to people in 
Mr Ss position who benefitted from GARs associated with their personal pensions, that L&G 
would apply the same annuity rates as set out in their individual policies.
Mr S doesnt dispute there was a GAR protection. Rather, he says hes suffered detriment of 
another kind as a result of Aegons contract with L&G. He says the establishment of his 
pension annuity was delayed because of the arrangement between the firms. 
Mr S believes that once he elected to take some of his pension benefits and had submitted 
the application, his wishes shouldve been given immediate effect  on 18 October 2017. He 
argues this wouldve been the case had Aegon retained its interest.
Im afraid I dont think Mr Ss expectation here was realistic. The terms of his contract that 
Ive already set out indicate to me that Aegon wouldve required, and provided for, some 
time to make arrangements once it knew of his retirement intentions.
To re-cap, he approached Aegon on 25 September 2017 shortly after his 66th birthday. He 
requested a retirement options quote. Two days later he was sent a letter detailing the 
information he needed together with a benefits illustration.
On 2 October 2017 Mr S asked Aegon for further information based on him taking around 30 
percent of his fund. It provided a more tailored illustration on 12 October 2017 showing the 
tax-free cash (TFC) and annual income this would generate.
AGEON says it then received a request from L&G to transfer a portion of Mr Ss pension 
funds on 18 October 2017. It processed the settlement 4 working days later. By the time 
funds had cleared through bank accounts Mr Ss effective pension date was 27 October with 
his first payment due in 2018.
Mr S didnt notify Aegon of a specified retirement date prior to his application. I think the 
purpose of the notice period stipulated in his original policy documentation was to provide 
sufficient time for it to have been confident it could process such a request in good time and 
to meet the customers target date.
I cant see there was a critical time line Mr S was working to. Hed been eligible to apply for 
his annuity for around 6 years before he did so. It isnt the case that he wanted his annuity to 
start on the date he was first able to take it. And his planning wasnt strictly associated with 
his birthday, which was a significant factor given the GAR he could benefit from increased 
each year according to his age.
Instead Mr Ss annuity start date was going to depend on many moving parts. These 
included, when he initiated enquiries; the provision of information to him; his consideration of 
the details and request for refined options; his consideration of those options and decision to 
proceed; the application process; the requirements on firms to ensure adherence to correct 
procedures such as identity checks; and the establishment of the annuity.
On balance, I dont think the time it took to start his pension was unreasonable. Ive not seen 
clear evidence the process wouldve been quicker had Aegon retained control and provided 
the annuity itself.
The nature of Mr Ss policy is that its paid annually in arrears. So, whenever he passes, he 
will have been alive for part of a year and his Estate wont qualify for pro-rata benefits. This 
is an inherent feature of the policy he bought.One of the matters Mr S has raised with this Service was that L&G had confirmed to him that 
Aegon hadnt provided sufficient top-up funds to meet in full its obligations to pay his 
annuity. We asked for him to provide a copy of the correspondence he was referring to. The 
key extract was as follows:
Regulations were followed and your commencement date was not manoeuvred for our own 
gain in any way. You mention the top-up payment received from Aegon which provides your 
[GAR]. This does not cover the cost of bringing your commencement date forward
My interpretation of this note is that L&G refuted that his pension commencement date had 
been the subject of inappropriate adjustment. And it was confirming the top-up payment it 
received from Aegon wouldnt cover the cost of bringing forward that date. It seems to me 
this doesnt support Mr Ss case, its merely a statement of fact and takes us back to the 
central argument about what is a fair and reasonable expectation for the setting of his 
Pension Date.
Mr S also said that while he cant point to a financial loss at the moment, it shouldnt be for 
his Estate on his passing to have to bring a complaint to have the matter dealt with at that 
time should it be necessary. Im mindful that Aegon covered this line of argument in its own 
final response to him. I think in the circumstances of this case this issue is a red-herring  Ill 
explain why.
In relation to the argument about Mr Ss correct Pension Date, theres merit in the principle 
he argues here. Thats to say, if the result of Aegons actions and its agreement with L&G 
had been to expose him to detriment, then Id certainly be considering requiring it to put 
matters right now by making arrangements to effect a change in the date of his annual 
annuity payment.
But Ive concluded that Aegon wasnt responsible for delays in the process of setting up Mr 
Ss annuity. Indeed, it seems to me this was established in a reasonable timeframe. And it 
follows that I dont require it to do anything further in this regard.
Finally, Aegon disagreed with the recommendation made by the investigator that it should 
pay Mr S £150 because of its failure to provide him with clear information about the time 
scales and process for establishing his annuity. It said it didnt offer a service of providing a 
customer with expected timescales of a third party (L&G) carrying out work. It could only 
provide such information where it was in control.
I note the following extracts from its final response to Mr S about his complaint which I think 
strikes a different tone:
As part of our decision to leave the annuity market, we agreed to sell and transfer a 
significant part of our annuity business to Legal and General. We decided to stop providing 
annuities as we believe this will make our company stronger and serve our customers better 
in the long term. We also believe that with Legal and General expertise and long standing 
experience in annuities, theyll provide our customers with an excellent service.
You mentioned you could lose out because the process of starting your payments takes a 
little longer. While I understand your concerns about this issue, were confident that Legal 
and General are able to start payments to our customers in a reasonable timescale. All 
payments are the same through Legal and General as they would be through Aegon.
In arriving at a deal with L&G it wouldve done due diligence to ensure, as it assured Mr S, 
that the service customers received wouldnt suffer. Clearly, it cant be held responsible for 
the subsequent operational performance of a third party. But the point the investigator was making is about Aegon providing their customers with effective and clear information about 
process and timetables.
On balance, I think Aegon shouldve done more when it was in communication with Mr S 
about his pension options to make clear the broad timetable and process that could be 
involved in establishing his annuity. Thats not only because of its legacy responsibilities, but 
also because it still had a key role to play in enabling his pension through the transfer of 
funds. I also think it confused matters when it covered the prospect of a hypothetical loss to 
Mr Ss Estate in its final response letter.
Putting things right
I think its more likely than not in the circumstances of this case, that had Aegons 
communications been more effective this wouldve been successful in managing Mr Ss 
expectations.
So, I require Scottish Equitable Plc to pay Mr S £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him through its failure to provide him with sufficiently clear and 
effective communications.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ss main complaint, but Im 
awarding him £150 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman