DRN-3034318
The complaint
Mrs S, represented by her granddaughter Ms J, has complained about her car insurer 
Soteria Insurance Limited because it handled her theft claim poorly and then declined it. 
What happened
Mrs S held a car insurance policy with Soteria, and her son, Mr S, was a named driver on 
that policy. In July 2019 Mrs S went on holiday and left Mr S with permission to use the car. 
Mr S had the car at his house whilst a friend visited with him. The friend then stole the car 
and most of Mr Ss personal belongings.
Mrs S made a claim to Soteria. It initially had concerns about what it had been told when the 
policy was arranged. But in September 2019 Soteria decided it was satisfied Mrs S hadnt 
misled it and it agreed, in a final response letter, to continue with the claim. Soteria decided it 
wanted to interview Mr S. But Ms J, now representing Mrs S, was concerned and felt this 
was unfair. She said Soteria should have undertaken this interview months before but 
hadnt. She instructed a solicitor as she wanted to protect Mrs Ss interests. The interview 
took place on 19 December 2019.
Around this time it transpired that Mrs Ss car had been found by the police. Soteria was told 
by the garage that was holding the car, that it hadnt sustained any damage. Soteria was 
happy for the car to be returned to Mrs S and told Ms J the claim was closed, but if damage 
was found it could be reopened. 
In May 2020, Ms J, contacted Soteria. She told it damage had been found and repaired, so 
she wanted it to reopen the claim to consider Ms Ss recovery and repair costs. Ms J also 
asked Soteria to cover the cost of Mrs Ss legal representation, and an amount for distress 
and inconvenience. In short Ms S felt the claim had been handled poorly by Soteria, that it 
hadnt followed due process, and where it had followed standard processes, that had been 
to Mrs Ss unfair disadvantage. Soteria said it had actually declined the claim because Mr S 
had failed to take reasonable care to prevent loss as the policy requires him to do. So it said 
it wouldnt be reopening the claim, or making any payment to Mrs S in respect of the costs 
shed incurred. But it did, in part, accept it had provided poor service at times. For that it 
offered £250 compensation. This amount was on top of £60 it had sent to Mrs S by cheque 
because it had corresponded with her when it had been asked to deal with Ms J.
Ms J didnt agree with all of the conclusions Soteria had made. And even where she noted it 
had accepted it had failed Mrs S, she didnt think its compensation, totalling £310, was 
sufficient, given the upset it had caused. Ms J said she disputed the claim outcome but it 
was difficult for her to provide cogent reasoning for this because Soterias own reasoning 
was lacking and she hadnt seen the evidence it had seen. 
Our investigator felt Soteria had failed Mrs S, but that it had done enough to make up for 
that. He felt its decision on the claim was reasonable. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms J and Mrs S remained unhappy. The complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I said:
I think there has been some poor claim handling here, but the main issue really is the 
decline of the claim. I think Soteria didnt act fairly and reasonably in this respect. That unfair 
decline has caused upset for Mrs S, so I do think as well as paying her claim costs, it needs 
to pay more compensation. But I dont intend to make it refund the cost of Mrs S having legal 
representation. Ive set out my views below and both parties will have chance to respond 
before I make a final decision. 
claim decline
From what Ive seen, whilst Soteria told Ms J the claim was closed in December 2019, I dont 
think it, at that time, had declined it. I think, at that time, it had concerns about the claim but 
thought it could close because the car wasnt damaged. It should really have checked the 
car. Later, and its not clear when or why the decision was made, it chose to view it as 
declined by reason of lack of reasonable care. The only explanation Ive seen in this respect 
is in the final response letter of July 2020:
The insurance policy requires that all reasonable precautions are taken to reduce the risk of 
a loss. [Mr S] had brought home a person who was unknown to him, and put the car at risk 
as no steps appear to have been taken to safeguard the keys, especially considering that 
hed previously had a car taken in similar circumstances.
The policy does contain a term requiring reasonable care to be taken. But for Soteria to 
reasonably rely on a breach of that term to decline a claim it has to show that Mr S knew he 
was taking a risk and that, knowing there was a risk, he didnt take reasonable steps to 
prevent a loss. The fact that a theft had occurred recently doesnt mean Mr S was aware of a 
risk when his friend (albeit a new friend) came to visit. Given our decisions are published, 
I dont think its appropriate for me to go into detail here about the two theft situations. 
However, Ive reviewed the accounts and I dont think the circumstances are that similar. 
And I havent seen anything, apart from Soterias assumption as reflected in the quote set 
out above, that Mr S recognised he was taking a risk. In saying that I note its investigator felt 
Mr S, with his trusting nature, had been taken advantage of. I think Soteria acted unfairly and 
unreasonably, so it should settle the claim. 
Soteria told Ms J it would re-open the claim if damage was found, it didnt tell her to speak to 
it before completing repairs. And, given its reply when Ms J did ask it for assistance, I dont 
think it would have agreed to inspect the car before repairs were done even if Ms J had 
given it the opportunity to do so. I see Ms J did give Soteria chance to consider the repair 
invoice, but Soteria chose not to. I see Soteria has suggested that damage might have been 
done after the car was returned to Mrs S. But I havent seen anything from it to show it 
wasnt damaged during the theft. The fact it noted the garage that was holding the car had 
said it wasnt damaged isnt sufficient. And in saying that I note that even Soteria wasnt 
minded to just accept that verbal assurance  its initial plan was to have a motor engineer 
assess the car. As I said above, that is really what it should have done. As it is Ms J has 
shown invoices for £1,685.40 for repairs and £558 for moving and storing the car. I think 
Soteria should pay those bills, plus interest* from the date of the respective invoices until 
settlement is made. That will end the claim and the parties obligations to each other (as 
I understand Mrs S is no longer insured with Soteria).delay and legal costs
I dont think Soteria ever took proper account of Mrs Ss vulnerability  but by the time 
Soteria recommenced its assessment of the claim in September 2019, Ms J was assisting 
Mrs S. And the September 2019 final response letter dealt with the claim issues to that point, 
with Mrs S not complaining to us until August 2020. Thats more than the six-month deadline 
allowed for complaints, so I cant take into account what happened before that letter. I accept 
that it was frustrating to find out that, after the recommencement of the claim Soteria wanted 
to complete further investigations. But I think they were reasonable and that it was also 
reasonable that Soteria didnt make these enquiries earlier. Thats because, earlier, its whole 
liability for the entire policy was in question  only once that was satisfied could it reasonably 
move forwards with assessing the claim. So I dont think Soteria needs to reimburse costs 
incurred for instructing a solicitor, as that was Ms J and Mrs Ss choice to do so. 
 
other claim handling and compensation 
I note Ms J has, at times, asked for her inconvenience be taken into account. Whilst 
I appreciate she has helped Mrs S, its Mrs S who is Soterias policyholder and the 
complainant to this service. So it is the impact on Mrs S of Soterias failures that I have to 
consider. 
Soteria left Mrs S to check the car was roadworthy when it returned it to her. But Mrs S did 
check the car and it was found in need of repair. So whilst I know Ms J is worried about what 
may have happened if the car hadnt been checked, it wouldn't be fair to consider that. 
Instead I think its reasonable to look at what actually happened and what distress and 
inconvenience Mrs S was caused. 
Soteria accepts it made mistakes, such as writing to Mrs S when it had been asked to deal 
with Ms J. Also with the tone and clarity of its communication. It also accepts it should have 
provided a formal letter declining the claim. Its clear to me this caused Mrs S a lot of upset  
but there is then also the fact of the decline having been unfair.
If Soteria hadnt acted unfairly in respect of declining the claim and closing it without proper 
instruction to or offer of support for Mrs S/Ms J then it would have found the damage to 
Mrs Ss car and had it repaired. The car, all things considered, should have been back with 
Mrs S, in a repaired, roadworthy state before the nationwide lockdown began in March 2020. 
As it was Mrs S wasnt able to get her car repaired until May 2020, and then Soteria declined 
to assist her with her costs. 
I think total compensation of £750 is fairly and reasonably due for the impact of Soterias 
mistakes. I understand that Mrs S hasnt cashed any previous sums sent to her by Soteria. 
Assuming that is the case, it will now have to pay Mrs S the total compensation sum.
Ms J said Mrs S was satisfied by the findings and redress. But added that the reason she 
hadnt got back in touch with Soteria before May 2020 was because she was waiting for 
written confirmation from it as to the claim status and what her options were.
Soteria objected to my findings. In summary it said:
The claim circumstances werent that different to those of a previous theft  both thefts 
were perpetrated by someone Mr S had barely known and yet let into his house. 
In its view Mr S must have been aware of the risk when he let the second person into his 
home, given the first theft which had occurred.It had advised Mrs J that the car was being returned but if there was damage it would 
inspect it. So it isnt fair to say, as I had, that if damage had been drawn to its attention 
before repair, it wouldnt have assisted Mrs S.
It wasnt unreasonable for it to close the claim because it wasnt advised of any damage. 
And it told Mrs J on 2 January 2021, when she asked about the car being returned to 
Mrs S, that it wouldnt be dealing with the claim.
But it didnt officially refuse the claim, and therefore, send a letter to Mrs S explaining it 
was being declined, because it had closed it because there was no damage.
It was four months later that Mrs J told it of the damage and repair. This was long after it 
had told her it wouldnt be dealing with the claim, so she had completed repairs knowing 
that they werent covered.
A report on the damage to the car hasnt been provided so it isnt clear if this was related 
to the theft or not. And whilst Mrs J had offered to send it the invoice for consideration, it 
had already told her it wasnt dealing with the claim in January 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Soteria thinks the circumstances of a previous theft involving Mr S were 
similar to this one, such that Mr S must have perceived a risk. But in order for Soteria to 
fairly say that Mr S hadn't taken reasonable care Soteria has to show that Mr S knew what 
he was doing courted a risk (which he didn't take action to mitigate). I havent seen that, from 
Mr Ss perspective, that he thought the two situations were similar. Or that he thought the 
circumstances created during the first visit might be likely to happen again when he invited 
his new friend to stay. And I still think that its relevant when considering this aspect to note 
that Soterias own investigators found Mr S was nave and had been taken advantage of. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Mr S perceived that there was a risk at all. 
Whether he should have been more cautious, and whether he should have seen the risk 
Soteria has perceived he was taking, arent relevant considerations. As Im satisfied that 
Mr S didnt note that a risk was being taken, he didnt fail to take reasonable care. So Soteria 
cant fairly rely on the reasonable care exclusion to decline Mrs Ss claim.
I think its fair to say that the response Soteria has provided to this service about the repairs 
is not very persuasive. Seemingly Soteria would like me to accept that Mrs S should have 
told it about the damage she found, and if she had it would have reopened the claim and 
assessed the damage. But it seems that Soteria would also like me to accept that Mrs S was 
clearly told that it had declined her claim and wouldnt be dealing with the damage  so she 
acted to repair the car, in its view knowing that work wouldnt be covered. Further Soteria 
seems to also want me to accept that it would have reviewed the damage (if it had been told 
about it), whilst again stating that it refused to even consider the repair invoice because 
Mrs S had been told it wouldnt be dealing with the claim. 
Ideally Mrs S should have got back in touch with Soteria before she got the work done. But, 
on this occasion, from what Ive seen, if she had, I really dont think Soteria would have done 
anything differently. I also take into account that Mrs S herself says that she was unsure of 
what the situation was in early 2021, and that she was waiting for Soteria to clarify the 
situation in writing  which it tells me it didnt do. Im not persuaded that, in this instance, 
Mrs S going ahead with repairs was unreasonable or left Soteria in any worse position than 
its own actions did, or would have done if she had told it of the damage.
My view on this complaint hasnt changed. My provisional findings now form part of the 
findings of this, my final decision.  
Putting things right
I require Soteria to pay Mrs S:
£1,685.40 as reimbursement of repair costs, plus interest* from 12 May 2020 until 
settlement is made.
£558 as reimbursement of transport and storage costs, plus interest from 
6 January 2020 until settlement is made.
£750 total compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Soteria considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs S, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Soteria Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman