DRN-3458038
The complaint
Miss C and Mr O complain that IMF LTD displayed incorrect and misleading information on 
its website about their travel insurance policy.
All references to IMF include its appointed representatives. 
What happened
Miss C and Mr O bought an annual travel insurance policy online in June 2018. The policy 
was sold by IMF. 
In July 2018, Miss C underwent an emergency operation. Miss C and Mr O looked at the 
FAQ information available on IMFs website to understand if the operation would be 
considered a pre-existing medical condition. Based on the information displayed online, 
Miss C and Mr O didnt think it would. They subsequently travelled abroad and, unfortunately 
Miss C fell ill. Her claim was declined by her insurer. Another ombudsman made a final 
decision about the decline of Miss Cs claim in March 2020. 
Miss C and Mr O also complained about the information displayed on IMFs website. They 
said the definition of pre-existing medical condition wasnt clear and was subsequently 
amended by IMF (although IMF initially denied this). Miss C and Mr O said they relied on 
IMFs incorrect and misleading information and, as a result, their claim was declined. 
IMF responded to Miss C and Mr Os complaint, outlining the sales process theyd followed 
when they bought the policy. IMF said the FAQ information on its website didnt form part of 
the policy sales process or the policy terms and conditions, and only provided peripheral 
support. IMF also said the FAQs were routinely reviewed. It offered Miss C and Mr O £100 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
As Miss C and Mr O remained unhappy, they brought their complaint about IMF to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened but he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Miss C and Mr O didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint 
has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IMF is a separate and distinct financial business to the insurer who underwrites this policy, 
and IMF is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its own right. When making this 
decision, I can only comment on the regulated activities which IMF is responsible for. Our 
service has already made a final decision about the insurers responsibilities in this case (i.e. 
the decision to decline the claim and the content of the policy wording), and these issues 
cant be revisited.
Ive considered all the detailed submissions which Miss C and Mr O have made, but I dont 
intend to address all the points raised, nor am I obliged to. Instead, Ill focus on what I think 
are the key issues. When making my decision, Ive taken into account relevant industry rules 
and guidance as well as what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Miss C and Mr O are not complaining about the sale of this policy by IMF, so I wont be 
making any findings on this point. Instead, Ive considered what Miss C and Mr O have said 
about the FAQ information set out on IMFs website relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
I can understand why Miss C and Mr O didnt consider that Miss Cs operation would meet 
this definition as it was originally set out. But I dont think it was reasonable for Miss C and 
Mr O to rely exclusively on this generic information in deciding whether their policy would 
provide them with cover. 
It was up to Miss C and Mr O to ensure they had a level of cover in place which met their 
needs and I dont think its unreasonable to expect a policyholder to refer to their contract 
documentation (i.e. the terms and conditions of their policy) to establish if theyre likely to 
have cover for a pre-existing medical condition and/or a significant change in health in the 
first instance. I also dont think its unreasonable to expect a policyholder to contact their 
broker (or insurer) to double-check the position regarding important matters such as cover 
for medical conditions if they have any questions.
So, even if I accept that the FAQ information displayed by IMF could have been clearer, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances to direct IMF to accept liability 
for the value of Miss Cs eventual claim. 
Ive considered what Miss C and Mr O have said about the subsequent change in the 
wording set out in the FAQs, but this doesnt change my decision that its not a foreseeable 
or proportionate response to any error by IMF in this regard to ask it to do anything further. 
Id generally expect a financial business to review its website from time to time  particularly 
in response to customers complaints  so I cant fairly conclude that IMFs changes to the 
wording demonstrate any admission of wrongdoing on its part. 
I understand that Miss C and Mr O are also unhappy with how IMF handled their complaint. 
Its not within my remit to punish or fine a financial business for any failings in its complaint 
handling processes. Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss C and Mr O, Im satisfied that 
the £100 compensation which IMF has already offered to pay fairly compensates them for 
the impact of IMFs actions on them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss C and Mr Os complaint. 
IMF LTD has already offered to pay Miss C and Mr O £100 compensation and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. IMF LTD should pay Miss C and Mr O £100 
compensation, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman