DRN-1844390
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy that their clothes were damaged because British Gas Services 
Limited (BG) delayed attending to a washing machine fault.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S had Homecare Four Kitchen Appliance cover with BG. The policy is jointly 
held but, for ease, I will refer only to Mr S throughout my decision.
Mr S reported a fault with his washing machine on three occasions, with the final two being 
two weeks apart for the same fault. BG attended on each occasion, drained the machine and 
reported that the rinse and spin cycle was working. At the final visit, the engineer drained the 
water out of the machine, cleaned the sump hose and replaced the drain pump. He tested 
the machine was working before he left.
Mr S asked BG to cover the cost of the clothes which had been trapped in the machine and 
ruined while waiting for BG to attend. BG said it had attended within reasonable timescales 
(three to five days) and offered a small goodwill payment. Mr S asked BG again to pay £300 
to cover the cost of his clothes. Because he couldnt provide any evidence of the clothes 
hed lost, BG offered to meet him halfway and pay £150. Mr S rejected the offer.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He thought that Mr S wouldnt have lost the 
clothes if BG had repaired the machine when it first attended. He thought Mr Ss claim for 
the damaged clothes was reasonable and BG should pay the full £300. But he didnt think 
thered been a significant delay in attending to fix the machine and the inconvenience Mr S 
experienced was relatively small. 
BG didnt agree. It remained of the opinion that £10 goodwill and £150 for the clothes was 
enough given that Mr S couldnt provide any evidence of the clothes lost. BG also said the 
second fault couldve been a new fault, so it wasnt responsible for the damaged caused 
between appointments.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
The dispute here is about whether BG should compensate Mr S for the clothes damaged 
because they were trapped in his machine. BG doesnt think its responsible because its 
engineer tested the machine was working at the end of each visit. While the final visit was 
only two weeks after the previous visit, it says its not uncommon for a second and different 
fault to appear soon after a fault is fixed.
While I dont doubt that can happen, I think its unlikely in this case. Mr S reported the same 
problem on each occasion  that his machine wasnt draining. BG replaced the drain pump 
on the final visit, after which the machine remained in working order. So I think its more 
likely than not that if the drain pump had been replaced at the first visit, then further visits 
wouldnt have been needed.
Mr S says his clothes wouldnt have been damaged if BG had repaired the machine on the 
first visit, and Im inclined to agree. The clothes sat in water trapped in the machine while 
waiting for BG to attend. Mr S says he told BG that the clothes were in the machine when he 
reported the fault for a second time. Ive asked BG for the call recording to confirm this, but it 
hasnt been able to provide a copy. So, in the absence of any other evidence I have no 
reason to doubt that Mr S told BG his clothes were trapped. Because of this, I dont think it 
was appropriate for BG to delay attending to the second fault. While I wouldnt ordinarily 
consider a delay of three to five days too long, knowing that clothes were stuck in the 
machine I wouldve expected BG to offer some advice or try to attend sooner than it did. 
In summary, I think BG couldve fixed the machine at the first visit or attended the second 
repair sooner, either of which wouldve prevented damage to the clothes. So I think its fair to 
ask BG to compensate Mr S for the clothes hes lost.
Mr S calculated the cost of the clothes as £300. BG offered half of that because he couldnt 
provide evidence of the clothes. Ive asked BG whether its engineer reported seeing clothes 
in the machine, but it doesnt have a record of that. However, given that the work records 
say the engineer drained the machine, I think its fair to assume clothes were in the drum. Its 
unlikely that Mr S wouldve run an empty cycle. 
Ive looked at the list of clothing items Mr S provided. It doesnt seem excessive for a single 
load in a machine, and the value he placed on each item seems reasonable to me. As Ive 
decided that BG couldve prevented the loss, I think its fair for it to cover the full cost of the 
clothes for which Mr S is claiming.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. British Gas 
Services Limited should:
pay Mr S and Mrs S £300 to compensate them for the loss of clothes trapped in their 
machine while waiting for a second appointment for a repeat fault.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman