DRN-3025098
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his motor insurer Acromas Insurance Company Limited in 
respect of how it handled a non-fault claim he made when a foreign lorry driver collided with 
him on a roundabout.
What happened
Mr C was involved in a crash in August 2019 and Acromas repaired his car within about a 
month. But it was January 2020 before Acromas confirmed to Mr C that it would like to see 
dashcam footage he had available of the accident. By May 2020 the claim hadnt progressed 
and Acromas accepted it had caused delays. It offered Mr C £300 compensation which he 
accepted for upset caused to that point.
Mr C initially was happy with the compensation but he noted to Acromas that his premium for 
his motor bike had increased, as had 2020s renewal with it for his car. Whilst Acromas was 
considering matters it viewed the dashcam footage. This satisfied it that the crash was not 
Mr Cs fault. In March 2021 it decided to mark Mr Cs claim as non-fault, reinstating his no 
claims discount, returning his excess and recalculating his premium. But, it said, the claim 
would have to remain open and it may take a while to pursue the foreign driver. 
When our investigator contacted Acromas it agreed to pay a further £200 compensation. 
And when Mr C asked for his USB stick back (which hed sent it with dashcam footage on) it 
said it would do that, along with paying him the cost hed incurred in sending it. However, 
Acromas didnt return the stick and with matters still ongoing our investigator said it 
appeared the stick had been lost. She felt it should pay Mr C £103 as compensation for 
upset and postage costs. Acromas agreed. 
Mr C said he felt it was time to accept the total compensation offered by Acromas  but he 
was then disappointed when it only sent him £103. Our investigator asked Acromas why it 
had sent only that sum, and it said it had paid the £300 previously agreed in May 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Acromas handled this claim badly. It has accepted that it should have traced the 
foreign drivers details about four months earlier than it did. And if it had this would have 
prompted it to progress its request for the dashcam footage from Mr C sooner too. The fact 
that it didnt, meant the footage was only received about six-weeks before the 2020 
pandemic began to affect the country and prevented Acromas from properly assessing and 
dealing with that evidence. Although, frustratingly for Mr C, I note its still unclear why the 
footage wasnt properly actioned during that six-week period. 
I think that if Acromas had handled things properly it could have come to the decision and 
taken that action it did in March 2021 much earlier. I think it should have accepted and been 
viewing this as a non-fault claim long before Mr Cs policies, beginning and renewing in 
2020, became affected.  
So I accept that Mr Cs premiums increased due to Acromas failings. I appreciate Acromas 
has recalculated the premiums it charged and that Mr C approached his bike insurer for it to 
do the same. I know that Mr C feels his bike insurers recalculation is incorrect by about 
£35.00, but I cant hold Acromas liable for the outcome of that recalculation. Although I do 
accept that its another source of frustration for Mr C and Ive taken that into account.
Acromas has also reinstated Mr Cs no claims discount, refunded his excess and reimbursed 
his postal costs. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I note its also said it 
will return the USB stick to Mr C, although that hasnt happened yet and Acromas has been 
unable to tell us why, where the stick is or if it will eventually be returned to Mr C. As such 
I think I can only fairly view this as being lost. Ive taken this into account when awarding 
compensation. 
In terms of compensation Acromas has agreed to pay Mr C a total of £600 across three 
sums; £300, £200 and £100 (with the further £3 having been paid for postage). Mr C and 
Acromas both seem to agree that £300 and £100 have been paid. That leaves the £200 
Acromas offered in February 2021 outstanding. 
I think £600 total compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Acromas should 
have handled things better  and if it had the further problems caused by the pandemic 
would likely have been avoided. I can see that this has been a very difficult and trying time 
for Mr C  hes had to chase Acromas and it has largely been unable to give him any 
meaningful update, his premiums were affected and it seems Acromas has lost his USB 
stick. I know Mr C would like this service to fine and punish Acromas for what he sees as its 
gross incompetence. But, were not the industry regulator and that is not the role of this 
service. My job is to consider what happened, determine what a business did wrong and 
award compensation that, in my view, fairly and reasonably makes up for the upset caused 
by that. 
Having done that here Im satisfied that Acromas should pay Mr C the £200 previously 
offered which is so far outstanding (and, if it can, return the USB stick to him). In my view, 
that sum, along with its other payments and actions, fairly and reasonably resolves this 
complaint.  
Putting things right
I require Acromas to pay Mr C £200 compensation, where total compensation for this 
complaint is £600, and only £200 of that total sum remains to be paid.  Should any other part 
of the total remain outstanding, Acromas should pay this too. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Fiona RobinsonOmbudsman