DRN-1282060
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim she 
made on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B has held a pet insurance policy with RSA since 2011, to cover her cat, Moonlight.
In 2018 Moonlight was unwell. The vet who treated her suspected she was suffering from 
Haematuria. Miss B made a claim and RSA paid for Moonlights treatment.
In 2019 Miss B took Moonlight to the vet again with similar symptoms to the year before. 
After trying the same treatment, which was unsuccessful, and carrying out tests, the vet 
diagnosed Moonlight with Urolithiasis. A different treatment was carried out and Moonlight 
recovered.
Miss B made a claim for the cost of treating Moonlight for Urolithiasis. The vet said the 
conditions Moonlight had suffered from in 2018 and 2019 were different. RSA thought the 
two conditions were related and declined the claim because they said the limit for similar 
conditions had been reached.
Miss B complained to RSA about the outcome of the claim. She said shed been told by RSA 
that the policy limit refreshed every policy renewal. And she asked RSA to listen to the call in 
which she first took out the policy.
In response RSA said the call from when the policy was taken out in 2011 was no longer 
available. They said the policy documents provided at policy renewal explained how the 
policy limit worked. RSA listened to a recent call theyd had with Miss B and said there was 
no mention of the limit refreshing when the policy renewed. They said the two conditions 
were related and the limit had been reached.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service and our investigator considered it. In her view 
RSA had acted fairly by declining the claim. She thought the two conditions were related and 
that meant the limit had been reached. Miss B said she thought the policy had been mis-
sold. She also questioned whether there was one single condition or two separate ones.
As Miss B didnt agree with our investigator, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think RSA has acted 
fairly, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. Ill explain why.
Miss Bs complaint is essentially about two main points  the sale of the policy and the 
outcome of her claim. Ill look at each point separately.
The sale of the policyRSA says the call recording from the sale of the policy from 2011 isnt available. Given how 
long ago that was, I dont think thats unreasonable and I accept that.
Each yearly renewal of the policy is a sale in itself and I would expect key policy terms, such 
as limits to cover, to be clearly explained to consumers. That allows them to make an 
informed decision about whether the policy offered for the forthcoming year is right for them.
RSA has shown us the renewal documents from 2018  the renewal prior to the claim. On 
the front page it says: cover level: Extra £4,000.
The second page explains what that means. It says RSA will pay up to £4,000 for any illness 
or injury from the first date of treatment until the limit is met. It also says RSA will ask the vet 
if multiple issues are connected. If they are, RSA will pay up to the limit for all the connected 
issues. If theyre not, RSA will pay up to the limit for each illness or injury.
Ive considered what RSA has said in the renewal document. Im satisfied it was clear that 
where more than one condition is connected, the conditions will be treated as one and the 
limit will apply to the combined cost of treating the conditions. Only when the conditions 
arent connected will each condition benefit from the limit separately.
Overall, I think the renewal of the policy in 2018 was clear about how the limit worked. So, I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold to Miss B.
The outcome of the claim
The policy limit was £4,000. RSA has told us they paid just over £1,000 for the first condition. 
The cost of treating the second condition was around £5,000. RSA has paid around £3,000 
for that, making a total of £4,000 it has paid between the two conditions combined. That 
leaves Miss B with around £2,000 outstanding to pay to the vet.
The policy says that if two conditions are connected, theyll be considered as one. That 
means the limit will apply to both conditions combined.
The vet who treated Moonlight initially said Haematuria and Urolithiasis were separate 
conditions. So, I can understand why Miss B would have expected RSA to apply separate 
limits to each.
RSA thought the conditions might be connected. It wrote to the vet to ask them to explain 
why the conditions were separate. A member of staff from the vet spoke to RSA and Ive 
listened to the call recording. In summary they accepted that RSA considered the two 
conditions were connected and said the vet wasnt contesting RSAs position. The vet didnt 
provide further information or expert opinion to challenge what RSA had said or to explain 
why they thought the two conditions were separate.
Moonlight clearly suffered from two different conditions  they have different names and 
different treatments. The vet carried out tests on Moonlight both times. In 2018 she didnt 
have Urolithiasis but in 2019 she did.
I think its possible for two separate conditions to be connected. Based on what Ive seen, I 
think this was the case for Moonlight. The vet diagnosed the same three symptoms in 2018 
and 2019 and the same part of Moonlights body was affected both times. And when RSA 
asked the vet why the conditions were separate, I cant see that anything was provided to 
support that point of view. So, I think it was fair for RSA to see the two conditions as 
connected and apply the limit to the combined cost of treating both.Miss B said shed been told by RSA in a call that the policy limit refreshed when the policy 
renewed. If that were the case, there would have been more money available to cover 
Moonlights treatment in 2019.
Ive checked the policy and its clear this limit doesnt refresh at renewal. Once the limit has 
been reached for a condition or connected conditions, theres no further cover available 
under the extra policy option.
Ive listened to the call Miss B referred to. RSA didnt say the policy limit would refresh or 
restart. So, I dont think RSA misled Miss B or treated her unfairly during the call.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman