DRN-3570640
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has added a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr P says that he opened an account at Tesco Personal Finance in 2018 and allowed this to 
be used by a third party. And that was because he had been threatened. So, he didnt think it 
was fair that the marker had been added.
Tesco Personal Finance said it hadnt made a mistake in adding the CIFAS marker. And it 
had reviewed this in 2020, 2021 and 2022 when Mr P contacted it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Tesco Personal Finance 
had received a report that money paid into the account had been obtained fraudulently. And 
it had been quickly withdrawn including at a cash machine. So, it had added the marker.
Mr P had explained that he had originally agreed to allow his account at a different financial 
business to be used by two men whod approached him when he was at college. He thought 
that this was a legal and easy way of making money. But the other financial business hadnt 
allowed money sent to his account to be paid out. And threats were made of violence to him 
and family as the men said he owed them money. So, Mr P said he opened the account at 
Tesco Personal Finance and other financial businesses and provided his details. He by then 
knew that this wasnt for legitimate purposes. But he says he didnt benefit and that other 
financial businesses hed opened accounts with have removed CIFAS markers added in 
similar circumstances.
Our investigator said that there is a high bar for adding a marker. And she was thinking 
about whether Mr P was deliberately complicit. She said that Mr P knew that the accounts 
were being opened for a fraudulent purpose. And he hadnt thought about the risks involved 
and could have done more to protect himself. She didnt think his testimony was plausible. 
The impact of the marker wasnt something that was a ground in itself for it to be removed. 
And although Tesco Personal Finance hadnt spoken to him in 2018 she didnt think that this 
made any difference.
Mr P didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He said 
that he hadnt left his house for a period after this happened and had mental health issues. 
He had been affected by this marker for four years. By now he wanted to be thinking about 
buying a house and couldnt as a result of the marker. He had made a report to police, but 
they decided not to take this further. He said he didnt get anything from what happened. 
And he didnt think he had any option but to allow this account to be used. Tesco Personal 
Finance hadnt spoken to him at the time and he didnt know why we thought that wouldnt 
have made a difference.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Tesco 
Personal Finance needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
I agree with our investigator that we are only looking here at the marker at Tesco Personal 
Finance and not what other financial businesses may have done and why. Im satisfied 
from the evidence provided that there were fraudulently obtained funds received into Mr Ps 
account and which were paid out.
I note that Mr P first contacted this service about what happened in October 2020. At that 
time Tesco Personal Finance hadnt considered a complaint. Ive seen its case notes about 
discussions with Mr P in November 2020. And in December 2020 it said it wouldnt be 
removing the marker. He contacted it again in September 2021 and then in January and 
February 2022. It issued its final response that latter month.
When he spoke to it in November 2020 he told it that he had reported the matter to Action 
Fraud and gave the reference number. Hes provided his letter from Action Fraud and this 
states that he had reported identity theft. He was asked by Tesco Bank why he hadnt 
reported what happened to police before and it noted hes said he was too scared. When 
he contacted it in 2022 it said that it would need new information to confirm he had been 
threatened into acting by fraudsters and the police details of any investigation. He hasnt 
provided anything further.
Mr P has nothing to verify that he was threatened or that anyone else was involved in what 
happened. He said at one time he had messages on his phone with the fraudsters but that 
he lost these when his phone was stolen. There is no testimony from anyone else about 
him reporting he had been threatened. He has no evidence of any report to police of being 
threatened. And there is nothing to show that anyone other than him withdrew the money. 
So, while his account of what happened has been consistent he has been aware for some 
time of the need to support this with evidence and hes not been able to do so. The history 
of the case also indicates to me that Tesco Personal Finance had considered his account 
of what happened over time, and I think its reasonable to conclude its assessment 
wouldnt have changed if it had spoken to him in 2018. 
The issue here is a narrow one. And this is whether Mr P was threatened into opening this 
account and allowing a third party to use it and couldnt do anything about this and so 
would have had a reasonable excuse for acting in this way. Its self-evident from what he 
says that by then he reasonably knew that this account wasnt for legitimate purposes and 
he was complicit in what happened. I need to think about what is most likely and in the 
absence of any supporting evidence I dont consider that Mr Ps explanation is a reliable 
one. And so, I think he is responsible for what happened on his account.Tesco Personal Finance says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr P received 
fraudulent funds into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ps account of events and the evidence Tesco Personal Finance has 
provided, Im satisfied that Tesco Personal Finance had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS 
marker to be recorded. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr P received fraudulently obtained funds into his account and didnt report what was 
happening at the time.
- He was in control of who had the benefit of this money which would include him 
allowing someone else to access his account.
- Tesco Personal Finance had grounds to believe that Mr P had been involved in a 
fraud or financial crime.
I appreciate that Mr P will be very disappointed with my decision given what hes said about 
the impact that the marker is having on him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman