DRN-2374918
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that Yorkshire Building Society, trading as 
Norwich & Peterborough Building Society, mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs O applied for a mortgage, and at the same time 
Norwich & Peterborough Building Society sold them a PPI policy. The PPI covered Mr O and 
would help Mr and Mrs O make payments towards the mortgage for up to 12 months if Mr O 
lost his job or for up to 24 months if he was off work sick.
Mr and Mrs O think the PPI was mis-sold.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that based on what Id seen, I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. But I noted that Yorkshire 
Building Society had previously made an offer because of the commission and profit share it 
got. I said subject to anything else Mr and Mrs O or Yorkshire Building Society sent me, Id 
tell Yorkshire Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs O if it hadnt already.
Mr and Mrs O have replied to say they have nothing further to add.
Yorkshire Building Society confirmed that its initial cheque to Mr and Mrs O had expired and 
says it could re-issue it.
As Ive now heard from both Mr and Mrs O and Yorkshire Building Society, Ive looked at the 
complaint again, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when looking at Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that:
In Mr and Mrs Os case, the PPI was a condition of the mortgage. According to the 
mortgage offer, the interest rate on Mr and Mrs Os mortgage was capped for 48 
months, and one of the conditions of that cap was accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover being arranged through our agency and maintained for the 
period of the concession. This meant Mr and Mrs O needed to buy the PPI if they 
wanted this capped interest rate. The offer also said that the building society would 
withdraw this concession if Mr and Mrs O failed to make the required payments 
towards the insurance.
I didnt think there was anything wrong with Yorkshire Building Society doing this as 
long as it was made clear the PPI was compulsory and as long as it didnt mislead Mr 
and Mrs O into thinking they had to have the PPI when this wasnt the case. The 
mortgage offer explained PPI was a condition of this particular mortgage. And Mr and 
Mrs O say they remember being told they needed the insurance. So taken together, I 
thought it likely that Mr and Mrs O chose this mortgage knowing the PPI was 
compulsory.
Mr and Mrs O said that Yorkshire Building Society advised them to buy the policy. 
Yorkshire Building Society said the application for the mortgage was submitted by an 
intermediary  so it wouldnt have offered any advice at all. Having thought about all 
this, I said that if the sale had followed advice, as Mr and Mrs O had said, the policy 
appeared to have been right for Mr and Mrs O. Mr O was in full time permanent 
employment. He doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
PPI didnt cover. And though Mr O says he had sick pay and redundancy pay he 
could have relied on, I noted Mr O had recently changed jobs which suggested any 
sick pay and redundancy pay may have been limited. The policy would have paid out 
for up to 12 months if he was made redundant  and 24 months if he was off work 
sick.
For similar reasons, though I couldnt be sure the information Mr and Mrs O were 
given about the policy was as clear as it should have been, I wasnt persuaded better 
information would have changed their decision to buy the policy. As I said, they 
needed to take out the policy to get a preferential rate on the mortgage. And based 
on their circumstances, it appeared the policy would have been useful to them. The 
policy also appeared to be affordable.
This meant I didnt think Yorkshire Building Society needed to pay back all the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
I also said that Yorkshire Building Society had agreed to pay back some of the cost of the 
policy because:
Yorkshire Building Society sometimes got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs O about 
that. Because it didnt tell Mr and Mrs O about that, this was unfair.
To put that right, Yorkshire Building Society had basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I 
thought that offer was fair in that case.
Since I issued my provisional decision, Ive heard back from Mr and Mrs O and Yorkshire 
Building Society. 
Yorkshire Building Society said theyd sent Mr and Mrs O a cheque in 2019, but this had now 
expired. Mr and Mrs O replied to say they had nothing further to add.
As neither Yorkshire Building Society nor Mr and Mrs O have sent me anything further to 
consider, I reach the same findings for the same reasons. Yorkshire Building Society can 
now pay Mr and Mrs O if it hasnt already.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission and 
profit-share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should now pay this to Mr 
and Mrs O if it hasnt already. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman