DRN-3099479
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly 
declined their mortgage application.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L says they applied for a re- mortgage with Halifax, via their broker and were 
initially provided with an approved decision in principle (DIP). Mr L and Mrs L says they were 
then asked to provide supporting evidence of their income including bank statements and 
annual accounts for Mr Ls business, as he is self-employed. After providing this information 
Mr L and Mrs L says their application was declined based on affordability. Mr L and Mrs L 
says Halifax failed to recognise the second income Mr L was earning, as a result of the 
Covid pandemic, or the fact they had previously been paying back more each month on their 
existing mortgage than was being asked of them for this new application. Mr L and Mrs L 
says they had to use their credit card to carry out home improvements and have 
subsequently had a mortgage agreed for a higher amount by another lender, proving Halifax 
treated them unfairly when it declined their mortgage request. 
Mr L and Mrs L want Halifax to compensate them for the extra costs they have incurred and 
the stress and anxiety this has caused them, and for Halifax to review their processes for 
self-employed mortgage applications. 
Halifax says Mr L and Mrs L were only provided with a DIP and that was subject to review 
and could be withdrawn. Halifax says they couldnt take into account Mr Ls secondary 
income as it wasnt viewed as a permanent source. Halifax says the application didnt meet 
their lending criteria and they have done nothing wrong here. Halifax didnt accept Mr L and 
Mrs Ls view that because another lender agreed a mortgage for them it meant they made 
an error.
Mr L and Mrs L werent happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax had carried out a full assessment of the application but had declined 
it as it didnt meet their mortgage lending criteria. The investigator says a DIP doesnt mean 
the mortgage was guaranteed at that point and there was nothing to suggest Halifax had 
discriminated against Mr L and Mrs L, it was simply their application didnt meet its 
affordability assessment. The investigator didnt feel because another lender had 
subsequently agreed to provide a mortgage to Mr L and Mrs L, it meant Halifax had unfairly 
declined their application. 
Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr L and Mrs L having their mortgage 
application declined by Halifax, having previously been given a decision in principle (DIP) by 
them. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted unreasonably, when declining 
Mr L and Mrs Ls application for a re-mortgage with them. 
Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint centres around Halifaxs decision to decline their mortgage 
application based purely on information provided by them from their bank statements, which 
evidenced a second line of income for Mr L. They make the point that due to the Covid 
pandemic, Mr L had taken a second job to supplement their income, but they had still 
maintained their existing monthly mortgage commitments, in fact, at a level higher than the 
new re-mortgage they had applied for.  
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. That said, here I cant say 
this interfered in the process of the application, but it is fair to say given the circumstances 
Covid presented, both have needed to make difficult choices as to what actions and 
decisions they needed to make. Here, Mr L took the decision to take on a second job to 
supplement the household income and it follows, its not unreasonable for Halifax to have 
considered that, as part of their affordability assessment. 
This service would expect businesses, like Halifax to try to assist customers in times like 
these, but I  cant tell or expect them to change its lending criteria as a result of this. I say 
this because Halifax , like all banks, must lend responsibly and despite the unusual 
circumstances the pandemic created, they remain subject to guidance given by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and in particular the Mortgage Code of Business (MCOB). If 
anything, its fair to say, its just as important this guidance is adhered to, during these 
challenging times. 
The guidance informs lenders they should take into account future changes to income and/or 
expenditure, which they are or should reasonably be aware of, from information obtained 
during the application process - I am satisfied this is what happened here. I say this because 
although a DIP was issued, this didnt mean the mortgage was guaranteed or fully approved, 
merely it was an indication of what Halifax might be prepared to lend, subject to further 
assessment - the DIP states :
 The decision in principle has been based on certain assumptions which may change once 
you apply for a mortgage and your needs and circumstances have been fully assessed. This 
may mean the amount available is subject to change.
So here, when Halifax received the information they requested, including bank statements, 
these showed a second source of income for Mr L, but Halifax took the view this income 
couldnt be considered as a permanent source, which didnt meet their affordability 
assessment.  
Mr L and Mrs L have made the point their existing monthly mortgage commitments were higher than the amount of the proposed re-mortgage payments with Halifax. In addition, Mr L 
and Mrs L says another lender has subsequently agreed a mortgage for a higher amount. 
They say this proves Halifax were wrong to decline their application, and supports their view 
they were discriminated against, because of Mr Ls self-employed status.  
While I understand the points Mr L and Mrs L make here, its fair to say just because another 
lender approves a mortgage application, it doesnt necessarily mean Halifax were wrong not 
to. I say this as each lender will have their own lending criteria, which can change from time 
to time depending on various circumstances. As far as their existing monthly payments being 
higher than the proposed re-mortgage they applied for, it is not just the affordability of the 
individual monthly payments as they are that are assessed in an affordability assessment. 
Its the affordability of the whole mortgage amount borrowed over the entire term that the 
lender is required to assess. 
Its worth saying Mr L and Mrs Ls circumstances and income profile had changed and its 
not unreasonable for Halifax to take that into account here. Particularly in light of the 
additional uncertainty created as a result of the pandemic at that time.
I cant see any evidence to suggest Mr L and Mrs L have been discriminated against as a 
result of the self-employed status of Mr L, merely that Halifax have assessed this application 
and felt it didnt meet their affordability criteria. Its not for me to tell Halifax what their criteria 
must consist of or how they should consider applications for self-employed individuals, thats 
a business decision for them to take. While Mr L and Mrs L may not agree, from the 
information I have been provided with, Halifax have made an assessment based on the 
information provided to them, but unfortunately on this occasion, given the concerns they 
had over affordability, declined the mortgage application for the reasons I have already 
mentioned. 
While Mr L and Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman