DRN-4278937
The complaint
Mr M complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) provided him with a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
Had it done so, MoneyBoat wouldve discovered he had defaults and missed payment 
markers on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M was granted one loan on 7 February 2022 for £200. Mr M was due to make three 
instalments of £74.90 followed by a fourth and final payment of £74.88. The loan was repaid 
on 25 August 2022. 
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mr M could 
afford it. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr M could afford the loan and that it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr M didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Later on, he 
provided copies of his bank statements from around the time the loan was advanced.  As no 
agreement has been reached, the case has been passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Ms complaint.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr M for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,000 per month. MoneyBoat says the income figures were checked by 
cross referencing information through a third-party report. As this was the first loan, it wasnt 
unreasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the information Mr M provided.  
Mr M also declared monthly outgoings of £250 for the loan. As part of the application, 
MoneyBoat used information from its credit search (which Ill come onto discuss below) and / 
or used information from the Common Financial Statement. As a result, of this check, 
Mr Ms monthly expenditure was increased by £600 per month.
After carrying out these checks, Mr Ms disposable income was £1,150 per month in which to 
afford the loan repayments of around £75. The loan wouldve looked affordable. 
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do 
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results there isnt anything that wouldve indicated Mr M 
was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were not any insolvency markers, 
defaults recorded within the last year or debt management plans. There also wasnt anything 
within the results that indicated Mr M was reliant on these sorts of loans.
I can see that Mr M had defaulted on a number of accounts in 2018 and 2019 but given 
these occurred around four years before the loan was advanced, I really dont think these 
historic defaults were an indicator that Mr M was likely to have repayment problems moving 
forward. Or wouldve been any concern to MoneyBoat. 
Overall, there was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led 
MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr M had provided. So, while Mr M has provided his bank statements, in this 
complaint, it wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have considered them. 
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Mr M gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. The checks 
carried out were also in my view proportionate. Finally, there wasnt anything else to suggest 
that Mr M was having financial difficulties or that the loan would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman