DRN-4414524
The complaint
Miss F complains she was pressured into purchasing a car which was of unsatisfactory
quality and pressured into taking out finance with Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as
Moneyway (Moneyway) that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 8 November 2021 Miss F entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement) with
Moneyway for a used car costing £7,199. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else
being equal, Miss F undertook to pay a deposit of £200 followed by 56 monthly payments of
£185.48 and 1 monthly payment of £195.48 - making a total repayable of £10,782.36 at an
APR of 20.2%.
On 26 November 2021 Miss F complained to Moneyway about a number of concerns she
had about the car and the agreement.
On 8 December 2021 an inspection of the car was undertaken by a company that I will call
R at Miss Fs request. R said:
suspected throttle position sensor fault
The diagnostics given by [R] requires confirmation by a qualified technician in a workshop
environment prior to any further work or parts replacement is considered.
R also identified a number of current and/or historical diagnostic codes.
On 11 January 2022 an inspection of the car was undertaken by a company that I will call T
at the original supplying dealerships and/or the finance brokers request. T said;
vehicle was brought to us for inspection, we first of all carried out a diagnostic code read
even though there was no engine light illuminated, there was a couple of history codes but
no current/present codes.
We then test drove the vehicle firstly 2-3mile the car drove find, under further instruction the
vehicle had previously cut out we took the car on a long 15 mile test drive on the motorway
to try and replicate issues reported by customer.
Again the car drove faultless and achieved motorway speeds without fault or incident, whilst
the car has been with us and test driven by us we have been unable to find fault and the
vehicle hasnt presented any issues or cause for concern in the 20mile we have done.
On 21 January 2022 Moneyway issued Miss F with a final response letter (FRL). Under
cover of this FRL Moneyway said it didnt believe the car was of unsatisfactory quality when
supplied to Miss F or that the agreement was unaffordable. But as a gesture of goodwill it,
the original supplying dealership and the credit broker were prepared to accept rejection of
the car and unwinding of the agreement, an offer that was available for acceptance until
28 January 2023.
On 24 January 2022 Miss F complained to our service.
Miss Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who ultimately came to the
view that Miss F was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality and that
Moneyway should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss F
refund to Miss F the £200 deposit she had paid together with interest
pay Miss F £200 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused in being
supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality
remove any adverse information it had recorded with credit reference agencies
Miss F agreed with the investigators ultimate view but Moneyway didnt. Moneyway said:
it remained of the view that the car wasnt of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to
Miss F so it, the original supplying dealership and the credit broker were under no
obligation to make an offer to Miss F to settle matters
the offer made to Miss F to settle matters was made as a gesture of goodwill and
only available for acceptance until 28 January 2022
Miss F didnt accept the offer, at least in time, and its no longer available for
acceptance
the time taken by our service to consider Miss Fs compliant makes, now, rejection of
the car and unwinding of the agreement more expensive and disproportionate
The investigator considered Moneyways response to her view but wasnt persuaded to
change her mind. And because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind
Miss Fs complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit.
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects
which impact my decision.Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
As the agreement entered into by Miss F is a regulated one this service is able to consider
complaints relating to it. Moneyway is also the supplier of the goods under this type of
agreement and so are responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss F entered into
and says that goods should be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into
account factors such as the age, the mileage and the price paid.
In support of its view that the car wasnt of unsatisfactory quality when supplied Moneyway is
relying on, amongst other things, the report provided by T and its belief that the evidence
provided by Miss F is neither strong nor persuasive.
In support of her view that the car was of unsatisfactory quality Miss F is relying on, amongst
other things, the report provided by R and a number of photographs and videos taken by
her.
Ive considered both reports and can confirm that I find neither of them particularly
persuasive. But what I do find persuasive are the photographs and videos provided by
Miss F (which for the avoidance of doubt Im satisfied are of her car and were taken shortly
after the car was supplied), Miss Fs consistent testimony about the issues she experienced
with the car and how quickly she contacted the original supplying dealership, the credit
broker and Moneyway to complain about those issues.
Given what I say above I can confirm that on the balance of probabilities Im satisfied that
the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to Miss F. And given how quickly Miss F
brought her concerns in this respect to Moneyways attention rejection, rather than a repair
or replacement, constitutes a fair and reasonable remedy.
Now I accept that directing Moneyway to accept rejection of the car now will cost it
substantially more than if Miss F had agreed to rejection in January 2022, or if our service
concluded this was what should happen shortly after January 2022, rather than in
June 2023. But Miss F was under no obligation to accept Moneyways offer of rejection in
January 2022 and entirely within her rights to refer her complaint to our service. I would also
add that it would be unfair for Miss F to be penalised for the time taken by our service to
consider her complaint.
As well as agreeing with the investigator that Miss F should be able to reject the car I also
agree with her (and for the same reasons) that Moneyway should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss F
refund to Miss F the £200 deposit she paid together with interest
pay Miss F £200 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused in being
supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory qualityremove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference agencies
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Im satisfied that I need to make no finding
on whether Moneyway should have declined Miss Fs application for finance (on the grounds
of affordability). This is because a finding by me that Moneyway shouldnt have approved
Miss Fs finance application wouldnt result in a better compensation outcome for Miss F
than the outcome Ive reached above.
Finally, although I cant say for certain that Miss F wasnt promised a £500 part exchange for
her old car, Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, this was the case. I say this in
part because the agreement clearly shows an allowance in this respect of £100 and not
£500.
Miss F responded to my provisional decision to say she accepted it.
Moneyway responded to my provisional decision to say that it had concerns about the 
current condition of the car given the length of time passed since it made its goodwill offer 
and to ask; what the expectations would be if there are damages to the vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the car may now be worth substantially lees than £7,199 Miss F originally 
paid for it due to, by way of example, it sitting idle for several months. I also accept the car 
may have suffered damage between November 2021 and now. But Ive seen nothing that 
would lead me to conclude that Miss F has been negligent in her care of the car whilst it has 
been in her possession. So I see no good reason to amend my provisional award for the 
fact that the car may now, for various reasons, be worth substantially less than it was worth 
in November 2021.
Given what I say above and given that Miss F has confirmed acceptance of my provisional 
decision I can confirm that I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now 
confirm them as final. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as
Moneyway must:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss F
refund to Miss F the £200 deposit she paid together with interest at 8% simple a
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*
pay Miss F £200 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused in being
supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality
remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference agencies* HMRC requires Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway to take off tax from this
interest. If Miss F asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should
be provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman