DRN-2627211
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy Mrs C took out to cover a hire 
purchase agreement in February 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to let Mrs C know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent before it 
added PPI to her account. AXA says Mrs C completed an application form and chose to take 
PPI  its provided a copy of Mrs Cs application form for me to consider. 
Looking at the application form, there is a section about PROTECTION FOR YOUR 
PAYMENTS with a brief description of the cover provided. There is a box which has been 
selected to say yes to PPI and Mrs C has signed the application form, confirming that she 
agrees with the selections on it. So, I think Mrs C was aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
it did need to give Mrs C enough information about the policy so she could decide whether to 
take it or not. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs C wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I dont think better information 
would have changed her decision to take the policy. I say this because, from the information 
I have, Mrs C was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the likely terms which might have made it harder for her to claim on the policy, such 
as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions, or unusual employment circumstances.
Mrs C says she was entitled to six months full pay if she was off sick from work and that she 
would have received statutory sick pay after this. Ive thought about what Mrs Cs said, but 
her sick pay would only have helped her for a limited time. The PPI would have paid out on 
top of any sick pay Mrs C received and potentially for longer. So, I think the policy could 
have been useful to Mrs C if she fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mrs C at the time it 
was taken. And if her circumstances changed, she was able to cancel it at any time without 
penalty. 
Overall, I dont think Mrs C lost out because of anything AXA did wrong. It follows, I dont 
think Mrs Cs PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman