DRN-4265364
The complaint
Mr S complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money he lost as a 
result of an investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
here.
In summary, Mr S says he was contacted by someone claiming to be a representative of AG 
Partners (a scam broker) and they convinced him to open an account with Wise for the 
purpose of investing, as instructed, in cryptocurrency.
He says he gave the scammer remote access to his laptop and that he was told to set up 
accounts with cryptocurrency exchanges, through which funds would be sent from his Wise 
account to an ICO-project (oilbeam) with the promise that if the ICO-project reached funding 
of over one-hundred million, hed receive more than one-million USD from his investment.
He also says he borrowed money from friends and that a reason he decided to invest was so 
he could pay a capital gains tax bill of about £95,000, following the sale of a property. A 
series of payments, funded by accounts Mr S held with two separate banks, were ultimately 
sent from his newly opened Wise account to his cryptocurrency exchange and to various 
other payees which I understand were likely operating in the Peer-to-Peer market (P2P).
The payments Ive considered as part of this complaint are as follows:
Date Time Payee Method Amount 
1 31-May-22 6.41pm Simplex Card 225 Euros
2 01-Jun-22 12.53pm Binance Card £1,000
3 02-Jun-22 11.53am Binance Card £820
4 06-Jun-22 10.33am Binance Card £5,000
5 06-Jun-22 12.05pm Binance Card £2,000
6 07-Jun-22 10.06am Binance Card £5,000
7 07-Jun-22 10.08am Binance Card £2,000
8 07-Jun-22 2.50pm Binance Card £3,000 
9 07-Jun-22 2.56pm Bryan Calderon De Alday Transfer £3,000
10 08-Jun-22 9.57am Binance Card £4,000
11 08-Jun-22 1.23pm Binance Card £1,000
12 13-Jun-22 2.38pm Binance Card £5,000 
13 13-Jun-22 2.47pm Harol Londono Perez Transfer 9,922 USD (£8,043)
14 13-Jun-22 2.58pm Wong Wei Chun Transfer £10,768 (18,107.38 
SGD)
15 13-Jun-22 3.17pm Aigbedion Andrew Transfer £5,207
16 13-Jun-22 3.29pm Wong Wei Chun Transfer £18,543 (31,257.15 
SGD)
17 13-Jun-22 3.41pm Aigbedion Andrew Transfer £9,571 
18 13-Jun-22 3.45pm Maksym Omeliuk Transfer £2,482 
19 15-Jun-22 2.58pm Volodymyr Tychynskyi Transfer £5,000
20 16-Jun-22 1.24pm Irwan Setiadi Sukmawan Transfer 8,000 USD (£6,484)
21 16-Jun-22 1.27pm Irwan Setiadi Sukmawan Transfer 8,000 USD (£6,484)
22 16-Jun-22 1.29pm Irwan Setiadi Sukmawan Transfer 8,000 USD (£6,484)
23 16-Jun-22 1.31pm Binance Card 391 USD (£316)
Mr S says he realised hed been scammed when he was told he needed to pay commission 
of over £100,000 in order to claim his profits. The scam was reported to Wise in July 2022. A 
complaint was raised and later referred to the Financial Ombudsman in August 2022. 
Our Investigator reviewed Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. In summary, she concluded that 
Wise should have intervened on payment 13 and that, if it had done so effectively, the scam 
would have likely been uncovered. She also concluded Mr S should bear equal responsibility 
for his losses, so Wise should reimburse 50% of the total amount paid from (and including) 
payment 13, with interest. Wise initially accepted the Investigators recommendation but later 
failed to pay the agreed settlement and submitted more evidence for us to consider. As the 
matter couldnt be resolved informally, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision to both parties in October 2023. I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold this complaint as I wasnt persuaded Wise can fairly and reasonably be held liable for 
Mr Ss losses in the circumstances. I provided the following reasons:
Authorisation
Im sorry to hear Mr S was the victim of a scam and of the impact the whole experience 
has had on him. I can understand why he wants to do all he can to recover the money 
hes lost. But its also accepted that he authorised the payments from his Wise account. 
So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for his 
loss in the first instance.
Prevention
There are, however, some situations in which an Electronic Money Institution (such as 
Wise) should, taking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice, have 
reasonably taken a closer look at the circumstances of a payment  if, for example, its 
particularly suspicious.
In this respect, Ive thought carefully about what Wise has said about its obligations 
under Visa and that its product is uniquely designed to allow customers to send large 
and various types of transactions to new recipients, and in different currencies. Ive also 
thought about its comments around the lack of account history and why certain 
payments didnt trigger on Mr Ss newly opened account, as spending patterns evolved. 
But its also necessary to consider that, by the time Mr S started his payments, Wise 
ought to have had a good understanding of how these types of scams take place, 
including the use of cryptocurrency and of different payment methods, and of multiple 
transactions starting at a lower value and increasing over time, or made in quick 
succession.In this case, its not in dispute that some of Mr Ss payments were considered by Wise as 
suspicious enough to have triggered its fraud-prevention system. It says the first alert 
was on transfer 9. I understand a generic scam warning was shown at that point and the 
money was sent after Mr S had selected the transfer reason as sending money to 
friends and family. I also understand the next to have flagged was payment 15. And I 
acknowledge there was unusual activity on the account that would have reasonably 
warranted an intervention or a warning from Wise  such as payment 13 or arguably 
payment 8. But, even accepting that Wise ought reasonably to have intervened at either 
of these points, Im not persuaded any intervention would have ultimately prevented the 
scam in any event.
This is because, as noted by the Investigator, theres evidence on file to show Mr S was 
prepared to give misleading or incomplete information when asked about the reason for 
his transactions by one of the banks from which the money originated. In a call on 8 June 
2022, for example, he told his bank that the money was going to his business account. 
A week later, he said he was buying land [abroad]...and I need to send the money over. 
In a call, on 24 June 2022, he told his bank hed not been contacted by anyone about 
making his investment. During a fraud check later that day, he said he became 
interested in crypto through adverts hed seen on the tubes and added one of my 
friends is into crypto, he told me about it and I did my research. In response to the 
question if hed received help and advice from anyone else he replied no. He said no 
software had been downloaded to his laptop.
At no point did Mr S say anything about an ICO-project or receiving advice from AG 
partners who, according to his testimony, had called him out of the blue. I appreciate Mr 
S may have been coached by the scammer on what to say for his payments to go 
through without issue. I also realise hes particularly concerned his account wasnt 
blocked until later in June 2022, after the above listed payments had been made. But, on 
the evidence, I cant fairly conclude hed have been upfront about what was really 
happening, even if Wise had intervened at any point and asked him probing questions 
about the nature of his transactions.
Its important for me to add here that Wise wouldnt have known for certain that Mr S was 
being scammed  and, crucially, unlike the Investigator, Im not convinced an appropriate 
level of questioning by Wise would have resulted in Mr S being unable to find a way 
around the truth, such that the scam would necessarily have been uncovered. A firm isnt 
expected to subject its customers to an interrogation. Its expected to ask suitable 
questions designed to disturb or unearth a potential scam and establish if the customer 
is at risk of financial harm. If, as the evidence shows, Mr S wasnt going to give honest 
answers to this sort of questioning, then its difficult to see how Wise could reasonably 
have uncovered the scam.
Its also important to note that all payments were sent either to an exchange account 
held by Mr S or to payees seemingly trading in the P2P market. In one of his messages 
to the scammer Mr S refers to paying ten thousand pounds to P2P. Both are legitimate 
ways for customers to buy cryptocurrency if thats what they want to do, and the 
information indicates Mr S wanted to continue to invest in it, despite having been told its 
largely unregulated.
All this means that, even though I consider Wise ought to have done more, I dont think, 
on balance, that its failure to probe further can reasonably be seen as the proximate 
cause of Mr Ss losses, as it seems likely he would have given misleading information 
and continued to make his transactions irrespective of any intervention.
RecoveryIn general, a business should attempt to recover lost funds once a scam has been 
reported. In this case, however, it seems the transfers were made directly to third-party 
payees for the purchase of cryptocurrency in the P2P market  and thats what Mr S 
received in return. Ive seen no evidence to suggest the third-parties were involved in the 
scam and, given that the matter was reported to Wise weeks after the last disputed 
transaction, its unlikely it could have facilitate a recovery. The card payments, on the 
other hand, were sent to an exchange in Mr S name before being forwarded to the 
scammer. This means Wise wouldnt have been able to recover that money either 
through a recall or a chargeback claim.
Complaint handling
In later correspondence to the Financial Ombudsman, Wise said it wanted to 
compensate Mr S for its delays and poor handling of his complaint. It apologised for the 
additional stress Mr S was caused as a result, at an already difficult time. Although 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and I cant comment on any offer relating to 
it, Im pleased that the £1,500 offered has already been paid to Mr S.
Responses to provisional decision
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Wise didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. Mr S replied saying, in summary:
- The provisional decision didnt mention the fact that Wise had initially accepted the 
Investigators view and agreed to settle on that basis. The Investigators outcome and 
agreed settlement were legally binding on Wise.   
- Wise was given enough time to submit its evidence before the Investigator issued their 
outcome. Its unacceptable that Wise was then given more time to submit its findings 
after that. This was frustrating and affected Mr Ss health.
- The provisional decision didnt say whether the Investigator had made a mistake in 
reaching their conclusions and if theyd failed in their task.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it. 
This is because, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and which form part of 
this final decision, Im not persuaded that Wises failure to intervene and question Mr S about 
the nature of his payments, can reasonably be seen as the proximate cause of his losses. I 
explained that, on the evidence, its likely hed have given Wise misleading or incomplete 
information and continued to make his transactions irrespective of any intervention. As no 
new information or comments have been provided on the merits of this case to convince me 
otherwise, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions in my provisional decision.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration that Wise initially accepted the Investigators outcome 
and agreed to settle on that basis before the case was re-opened for further investigation. 
Its true there were delays in Wise providing us with all the evidence it wanted us to consider 
and I did mention in my provisional decision that Wise had acknowledged its poor complaint 
handling and had paid Mr S £1,500 in recognition of what had happened. But the offer wasnt in full and final settlement of the complaint and, as the Investigator 
explained at the time, an Investigators outcome isnt legally binding on a business. And as 
Wise hadnt paid the agreed settlement, it was necessary for the case to be referred to an 
Ombudsman so that a final decision could be made  only an Ombudsmans final decision is 
legally binding on a business (if accepted by the complainant) and can be enforced in court if 
necessary. To manage expectations, it was also explained that an Ombudsman would 
review the whole file afresh and reach their own independent outcome. Both parties were 
then given equal opportunity to make any further representations they wished to make.
I appreciate this case is important to Mr S and hes disappointed at the change in outcome. I 
hope itll help him to know that it can sometimes happen, as part of an independent review, 
for an Ombudsman to reach different conclusions to those of an Investigator. That doesnt 
mean the Investigator necessarily failed in their task and thats not something Im required 
to comment on when setting out the reasons for my decision, which needs to be based on 
the individual facts and circumstances of the complaint Mr S raised against Wise.
Im again sorry Mr S was the victim of a cruel scam and Im mindful of the impact this has 
had on him. But, for the reasons Ive given, Im not persuaded an intervention by Wise would 
have made a difference such that it can fairly and reasonably be held liable for his losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Thomas Cardia
Ombudsman