DRN-3565828
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund gambling transactions he says he 
didnt make.
What happened
Mr H says his ex-partner (who Ill refer to as D) made gambling transactions using his TSB 
debit card without his knowledge. The transactions happened between November 2020 and 
March 2021 and involve four separate gambling companies.
What Mr H has told us:
D has admitted to gambling and using his TSB debit card. All of the gambling 
accounts were set up by D without his knowledge.
Mr H found out D had been gambling after the first set of transactions in November 
2020 and cancelled his debit card. Mr H says he forgave her for this. But after finding 
out shed done it for a second time, he started taking his card to work with him 
although he let D take the card to use at the shops.
He didnt use his online banking and thinks D mustve accessed it. Mr H says he 
didnt share his password with her, but says it was easy to guess and must be how 
she logged in to his online banking. He said that he had quite a bit of cash at home, 
so didnt need to check his account balance and didnt see the gambling 
transactions.
D was given Mr Hs old mobile phone to use, and they both used the same laptop 
which didnt have a passcode.
In January 2021 D moved out of his home.
Mr H disputes making any of the transactions and has asked for £200,000 to fairly address 
the amount of distress he has experienced as a result of TSB not refunding the transactions 
for him. The transactions out of Mr Hs TSB account to the gambling companies total in 
excess of £16,000, however, there have also been withdrawals of winnings from the 
gambling accounts which have been credited to Mr Hs TSB account for just over £9,000.
Mr H initially raised a fraud claim with TSB in December 2020, after the first set of gambling 
transactions. However, TSB refused to refund Mr H saying he needed to report Ds fraud to 
the police. Mr H refused to contact the police, saying in his culture you dont report family to 
the police.
In March 2021, Mr H raised his second fraud claim with TSB following further gambling 
transactions. TSB declined to refund the transactions, saying that while Mr H was disputing 
the payments out of his account, he wasnt disputing the credits hed received into his 
account from the gambling companies  which they thought was unusual. They also couldnt 
understand why a fraudster would register accounts with gambling companies in Mr Hs 
name and register Mr Hs TSB card to those accounts, as any winnings would have to be 
paid back to Mr Hs TSB account so they wouldnt get any benefit from the funds.
As Mr H wasnt happy with TSBs response, he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it for the following reasons:
All four gambling companies provided evidence that the accounts were set up using 
Mr Hs details and linked to his TSB card. 
All accounts followed a verification process, which wouldve included contact either 
via his email address or registered phone number. Also, the parent company (for two 
of the gambling companies) provided a selfie photo submitted as part of the account 
opening process which showed Mr H holding up his drivers licence. 
Winnings made from the gambling transactions were paid back into Mr Hs TSB 
account, so a third party wouldnt have benefitted from carrying out the transactions.
There were regular online banking logins before, during and after the disputed 
transactions being made, and it was likely Mr H wouldve seen the transactions or at 
least the effect on his balance of any pending transactions.
Its unlikely that D accessed Mr Hs online banking as she wouldve needed his login 
ID, password and relevant characters from his memorable word. TSBs evidence 
doesnt show any failed attempts, which suggests the person logging in knew the 
security details  however Mr H says he didnt share this information with anyone.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Based on the evidence, I think its more likely than not, that Mr H opened the 
accounts with the gambling companies involved with the disputed transactions. This 
evidence includes the selfie submitted where the person was holding a photo drivers 
licence in Mr Hs name and the person in the selfie closely matched the photo on the 
licence. Also, that Mr Hs details were used to open the accounts including his email 
address, phone number and home address. I wouldve expected a fraudster to 
provide an email address and/or phone number they had control over to hide their 
tracks as long as possible. Especially as Mr H wouldve received some contact from 
the companies involved to confirm the successful opening of the accounts, as well as 
other contact relating to deposits or withdrawals made on the account.
As Mr Hs debit card was used to make the transactions (deposits to the gambling 
accounts), all winnings were paid out to the same debit card, meaning they were paid 
into Mr Hs account. So, I cant see how a fraudster would benefit from gambling 
these funds. Also, Im not persuaded that Mr H didnt log into his online banking and that it was 
done by D. I say this because there is no plausible explanation for how D couldve 
successfully logged in without any failed attempts without being given all of the 
security credentials. And, as I think its more likely than not that Mr H did the online 
banking logins, I think he wouldve seen the gambling transactions. The logins 
started months prior to the gambling transactions he is disputing, as well as 
happening during the timeframe when the transactions were made. So, I think its 
likely that he wouldve seen the transactions and the impact on his account balance 
of the transactions.
Based on all of the information and evidence Ive been given, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr H made the gambling transactions hes disputing. On that basis, I cant fairly ask 
TSB to refund him.
I think its worth adding that even if I wasnt persuaded that Mr H had made the transactions 
himself, I still wouldnt have recommended that TSB refund him. I say this because Mr H has 
told us that he gave his card to D to use, and after finding out that she had carried out the 
first gambling transactions without his knowledge  forgave her. In effect he authorised the 
first set of transactions after the fact. 
Also, while Mr H cancelled his card after making this first discovery, he gave his replacement 
card to D to use again to go to the shops. By providing his card and PIN to D after she had 
already breached his trust, Mr H has failed to take reasonable steps to keep his security 
credentials safe. As she had completed transactions without Mr Hs authorisation, I wouldve 
expected him to take steps to ensure that she didnt have access to his replacement card. 
By not doing so, Mr H hasnt acted reasonably and has been grossly negligent in giving her 
his card and PIN to her again. On that basis, I couldnt fairly have asked TSB to refund the 
transactions even if I wasnt persuaded that Mr H made them himself.
I understand that Mr H is going to be very upset and Im sorry that Im unable to uphold his 
complaint. Mr H has told us that this has caused him a lot of distress and that hes lost all the 
money hed saved to buy a house. But having considered everything very carefully, I cant 
fairly ask TSB to refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman