DRN-3426607
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc treated him unfairly in relation to a 
secured business loan. He says the loan was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr M took out a business loan with NatWest in 2016 with a five-year term which expired in 
mid-2021. Mr M said he thought the loan had an 18-year term, with the first five years on a 
fixed interest rate. He doesnt think its fair for NatWest to apply further arrangement or 
valuation fees, as he paid these fees when he took out the loan. Mr M is also unhappy with 
the interest rates offered by NatWest for a new loan. Hed like the 2016 loan extended on the 
same terms.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties to set out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I thought the loan agreement was sufficiently clear that the loan had a five-year 
term. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the loan agreement was confusing and misleading. He referred to 
the clause stating that instalment amounts are based on a repayment term of 18 years, and 
said he was told by Barclays that this was the commitment term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive looked at the loan agreement which Mr M signed in 2016. This was a business loan with 
the funds intended to be used for the purchase of a further investment property. NatWest 
had security on two properties.
The loan agreement says the final repayment date is 60 months after the loan is drawn. It 
says the loan was repayable in monthly instalments with a final instalment of an amount 
sufficient to repay the loan and interest in full. The loan agreement says the instalment 
amounts are based on a repayment term of 18 years and therefore the amount of the final 
instalment may be substantial.
Mr M says he was misled about the loan term. In response to my provisional decision, Mr M 
said the clause about the instalments being based on an 18-year repayment term is 
confusing and he was told by Barclays this was the commitment term. Mr M didnt provide 
evidence to support this. He hadnt previously said this was what happened. On balance, I 
think its unlikely Barclays told Mr M the loan had an 18-year term. 
I need to take into account here that this was a business loan for the purposes of a 
commercial investment. It was reasonable for NatWest to expect Mr M to read the 
agreement before signing and ask if he wasnt certain about the terms. I think the loan 
agreement is sufficiently clear that the loan has a five-year term.
Im sorry if Mr M misunderstood the terms of the loan. But based on the available evidence I 
dont think this was due to an error by NatWest. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require NatWest to extend the loan term.
When the loan term was due to expire, NatWest discussed refinancing it with Mr M. NatWest 
said it would consider offering Mr M a new loan. It said Mr M would have to pay an 
arrangement fee and for a valuation as the last valuation was more than five years ago.
NatWest provided information to Mr M about the interest rates on which it was prepared to 
lend. Mr M didnt go ahead with this as he wasnt happy about the fees or the interest rates 
offered. NatWest is entitled to decide the terms on which it will lend. I appreciate that Mr M 
would like to take out a loan without paying fees and at a lower interest rate. But I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require NatWest to offer this.
NatWest paid £250 compensation for the way it dealt with Mr Ms subject access request. 
Mr M hasnt explained how, or provided evidence to show that, this affected him such as to 
make it fair and reasonable to require NatWest to pay further compensation.
Mr M said he would appeal if I didnt uphold his complaint. This final decision is the end of 
our process. If Mr M doesnt accept my decision, he will be free to take the matter to court if 
he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman