DRN-3780453
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the poor performance of her stakeholder pension plan which she 
says is the fault of Standard Life Assurance Limited.
What happened
In late 2006 Mrs R joined a group stakeholder pension (SHP) with Standard Life. At this time 
an application was completed which showed Mrs R was given advice by an independent 
financial adviser (IFA) and that she had chosen to invest 100% of her pension funds in 
Standard Lifes Stakeholder Ethical Fund. 
In February 2007 Standard Life provided Mrs R and her adviser with policy documents. 
These showed that the plan was invested in the Ethical Fund. Also included was information 
about how to access her pension plan online to obtain fund values and make changes to the 
funds in which her payments were invested. 
The information provided also explained, among other things, that Standard Life would
invest your payments in units in the pension in the pension funds chosen by you in 
your application (or at any later time). You can ask us at any time for leaflets which 
describe our range of pension funds and how those funds are performing.
And: 
each year, we will send you a statement showing the payments, including minimum 
contributions that we have received over the past year and the current value of your 
policies.
As well as:
please note that the value of investments can go down as well as up, and may be 
worth less than what was paid in. If you are unsure of which investment option(s) to 
choose you may wish to seek advice from a financial adviser. There is likely to be a 
cost for this.
Mrs R transferred her pension benefits to another provider in August 2022. Subsequently, 
she complained to Standard Life while transferring she noticed a massive investment loss of 
approximately 17%. She believes this was because of Standard Lifes poor investment 
decisions and wanted a least a portion of her lost funds returned to her. 
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said the loss was primarily the result of external 
market forces which impacted the value of the fund in which she was invested.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigators looked into her concerns but didnt think Standard Life 
had done anything wrong. He said Standard Life wasnt regulated to provide financial advice 
and it had explained that investment performance isnt guaranteed and can go up and down.  
In response Mrs R said she had no way of knowing the fund had performed so badly in the 
last year and thought Standard Life had a responsibility to advise investors if a fund is doing 
particularly badly.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Since an agreement could not be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
I appreciate that Mrs R is unhappy that the plan hasnt performed as she had hoped but 
returns on investments arent guaranteed. Just because an investment hasnt performed as 
well as expected doesnt necessarily mean the business has done anything wrong. 
Standard Lifes role here is that of product provider. So it is primarily responsible for 
administering the pension plan in accordance with its terms and conditions; providing Mrs R 
with clear, fair, and not misleading information about her plan; and investing contributions in 
line with her instructions. Critically, Standard Life is not regulated to provide advice, this 
means it cannot legally tell its customers what investments to make. 
Ive carefully reviewed the documents provided to Mrs R when her plan started. Standard 
Lifes paperwork explained, among other things, that the value of investments can fluctuate 
and that she should seek financial advice if she was unsure about where to invest. And it set 
out how the pension contributions would be allocated. It also explained that Mrs R able to 
access her plan online, allowing her to view the value of her plan at any time and to make 
changes to her investments. This was explained in multiple places in the policy documents 
and on her annual statements. 
I consider this information was clear and not misleading. And if Mrs R had any questions or 
concerns, I note that she was receiving advice from an IFA.
Furthermore, I can see that Mrs Rs pension plan was invested in line with her instructions 
as required under the terms of the plan. She was also provided with annual statements and 
access to her plan information online. So I cant see that Standard Life administered her plan 
incorrectly. 
I understand that Mrs R feels that Standard Life should have told her about the performance 
of her investments. But this would not have been appropriate as it could have led her to 
believe Standard Life was giving financial advice. It seems Mrs R wanted financial advice, 
and I appreciate she is disappointed that Standard Life didnt advise her, but as a product provider Standard Life is not authorised to do so. Furthermore, the value of her plan was 
available at any time online. And she could also make changes to her investments online. So 
I cant say that Standard Life are responsible for any financial loss. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman