DRN-1766508
 
The complaint
Mr P says that he was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B). 
What happened
In 1994 Mr P applied for a mortgage with B&B. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
protect his mortgage repayments if Mr P lost his job or was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought there wasnt 
enough evidence to show the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it provided a 
suitable benefit. 
Mr P disagrees. He says he thought he had to take PPI to get the mortgage and didnt need 
it.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
The policy was taken out at the same time Mr P got his mortgage. B&B had to make it clear 
the PPI was optional and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr P says this wasnt done but 
hasnt given us much detail about what was said when he took out the mortgage to make 
him think this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive 
relied more on what the documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to 
have happened.
B&B has given us a copy of the mortgage application Mr P completed at the time the policy 
was sold. On it I can see that there is a separate section that deals with PPI. The sections 
asks whether you wish to take advantage of PPI answering Yes or No. I can see Yes 
has been hand written next to this. I can also see that cover has been selected for 
unemployment, accident and sickness although there was also the option to take cover for 
accident and sickness only. And I can see that a benefit of £250 was requested. 
So overall I think it is likely Mr P wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy 
and that it was separate from the mortgage as that is how it was presented in the paperwork. 
And I think Mr P chose to take full PPI with a benefit of £250 because he wanted that level of cover. 
To be fair to Mr P I am going to treat the sale as if B&B advised him to take the policy  this 
puts him in the best position. What this means is that B&B not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr P could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for Mr Ps needs and circumstances.
I dont know if B&B took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr P says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
an income protection policy he could use to make his mortgage payments if he 
couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer 
covering his mortgage payments for up to 12 months per claim if Mr P was too sick to 
work or lost his job. 
 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr P in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think Mr 
P wouldve been interested in protecting them.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr P at the time and 
if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether B&B gave Mr P information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. I dont know if B&B gave all the information as it shouldve. But for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr P has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given 
all the proper information at the time of sale.
This means Mr P isnt any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by B&B.
 
 
 
 
  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Bradford & Bingley 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman