DRN-2108870
The complaint
Mr L, on behalf of D, a club, complains that the contract it entered into with Personnel 
Hygiene Services Limited trading as PHS Group was unfair
What happened
Mr L brings this complaint as the representative of D, a club. In 2011 D entered into a five 
year contract with PHS for hand dryers, air fresheners and water management flow savers.  
In 2016 the contract was renewed automatically for a further term of 5 years under the same 
terms and conditions. The contract came to an end in June 2019 when a new agreement 
was signed between the club and PHS.
D is unhappy with the terms and conditions for this contract, in particular the amount of the 
annual price increases and the provision for an automatic renewal. It considers that the 
increases have been excessive and not justified by the actual increases incurred by PHS 
during this time. It considers the contract and its operation to have been unfair and would 
like a refund of £2,000 of the charges previously paid and cancellation of a further invoice for 
£1,075.71 for outstanding costs under the 2011 agreement.
D consider the increases in the rent clauses were excessive and says this is supported by 
the fact that the costs of some items were significantly less in the new 2019 agreement than 
the ones applicable in the original contract at that time. 
Its also unhappy that PHS hasnt been able to provide a copy of the actual terms and 
conditions provided in 2011 or a copy of the cancellation rights notice referred to in this 
agreement.
PHS didnt accept the complaint. It says that the increases were in line with the terms and 
conditions set out in the 2011 contract. The terms and conditions also explained the 
mechanism for extending the contract for further term so it didnt agree this was unfair.
Our investigator reviewed the contract but felt the increases were in line with the contract 
and appeared to reflect increasing costs within the industry together with the annual uplift to 
the Retail Price Index and administrative costs. He noted that under clause 11.2 of the 
original contract, D had the right to end the contract in 2016 if it didnt want to continue but it 
hadnt done so and so it had been extended in line with the contract. Taken overall he didnt 
consider the terms of this contract to be out of the ordinary or that PHS had applied them 
unfairly. For that reason, he wouldnt be asking PHS to do anything more.
D disagreed and asked for its complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. It said, in 
summary:
PHS havent been able to provide a notice of cancellation dating back to 2011 and 
without evidence this was provided, the contract remains cancellable and any 
payments under it should be refunded.
the increases in the rent clauses were excessive, going up from £1,234 (plus vat) to 
£2,796 (plus vat) per annum and averaging an increase of 10.5% over the 8 years 
that the contract was in existence. D said this was supported by the fact that the cost 
of some items was significantly less in the 2019 agreement than it was paying for the 
same items under the original contract at that time. 
the automatic renewal clause was unfair and not in accordance with the Competition 
and Marketing Authority 2015 guidelines that say in paragraph 5.19 (1) - (4) that such 
clauses must be transparent and that the consumer should be made aware of the 
terms of such a clause before the agreement is signed and reminded of them at the 
point when the renewal is due to take place. D says that this wasnt the case with this 
contract and, as result, the contract was automatically renewed in 2016, committing 
the club to a further five year term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this isnt the decision D was hoping for but, having done so, I wont be upholding Ds 
complaint as Ill now explain.
Ive read and considered the complete file but Ill concentrate my comments on what I 
consider to be the key points. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I 
havent taken it into account but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what 
I consider to be the right decision. 
I note that in its submissions D has referred to the Competition and Markets Authority 2015 
guidelines on unfair terms provisions but these came into effect in 2015 and the contract 
was agreed in 2011 so I think it would be unfair to apply them retrospectively. For that 
reason, I wont be commenting on them further. While I will take into account all the 
relevant law and regulations in making my decision, Im not bound by them and my focus is 
to consider whats fair and reasonable in all in the circumstances of this case.
Ill look at the issues in turn.
Annual increases
 
Ive seen D considers the annual price increases to have been excessive and unfair. It says 
there was no way of knowing what they would be in advance and PHS hasnt provided 
information to support the level of the increases. For that reason, it considers the increases 
to be in breach of the Unfair Contract terms Act 1999 and should be refunded.
Ive looked at the 2011 agreement and note that clause 4.2 states:
PHS shall be at liberty to vary the payments as follows:
4.2.1. at any time where the performance of its obligations is made more difficult or costly as 
a result of new legislation or regulations or changes to existing legislation or regulations, 
including those which result in increases in National Insurance Contributions;
4.2.2. to take account of an increase in PHSs operating costs, including without limitation 
costs arising from increases in fuel prices;4.2.3. upon each anniversary of the Commencement Date during the Initial Period, by the 
average increase in inflation during the previous 12 month period as measured by an 
appropriate index (such index to be determined by PHS); and
4.2.4 at the beginning of the first Extension Period and upon each anniversary of the start of 
the first Extension Period (including upon all anniversaries during any subsequent extension 
periods) by a percentage increase applied at the discretion of PHS.
Its clear from this that PHS is allowed to raise its charges each year, depending on a 
number of factors including its own internal costs, any regulatory changes and an annual 
lift in line with a relevant price index. Its also the case that PHS has significant discretion 
in the way it applies these increases but thats set out clearly in the terms and conditions 
and would have been known to the club before it signed up to them in 2011. 
The contract also provides a mechanism for cancelling the contract if the client doesnt 
want to continue. In this case that could have happened in 2016 but D didnt take it up at 
the time and although Ive taken into account the reasons for this, nevertheless Im 
satisfied this option was available.
PHS has provided information to show that, during the time of this contract, there were 
significant increases in fuel and operating costs as well as additional costs caused by the 
changes to the environmental regulations. Its also the case that the part of the increase 
depended on the changes each year to the price index, which was outside of PHS control. 
Its clear the annual rental payments increased significantly between 2011 and 2019 but 
looking at the information available, I cant agree the increases were unfair or that they 
werent applied in line with the terms and conditions. 
Automatic extension of the contract
The terms for bringing the contract to an end are set out in clause 11, as follows:
11. Termination of the Contract
11.1. If the payments do not exceed the sum prescribed from time to time by section 
101(7)(a) of the Act (£1500 per annum at the time these terms and Conditions were 
printed), the Customer shall be entitled to terminate the hire of one or more of the 
units or this Agreement in its entirety upon the terms of the statutory notice set out 
on page 1 entitled      important- read this carefully to find out about your rights 
unless the Units are used in a Customers business, were selected  by the 
Customer and acquired at its request by PHS from the supplier for the purposes of 
this Agreement.
11.2 In all other cases, the Customer may only terminate the hire of one or more of 
the Units or this Agreement in its entirety by giving at least 90 days prior notice in 
writing, such notice to expire at the end of the Initial Period or an Extension Period.
The terms and conditions were available to the club in 2011 so I think its fair to say that D 
would have known about this clause at that time. I appreciate that it can be difficult to keep 
an eye on deadlines but this clause only requires that the club gives at least 90 days notice 
of its wish to cancel, ending on the end of the initial term. In other words, notice could have 
been given at any time during the initial term if the club wasnt happy with the contract or 
the way it was being implemented. On that basis I dont consider that this clause was 
unclear or unfair.Ive seen D feels PHS should have contacted it before the automatic extension took effect 
to explain what would happen. That may have been helpful but I havent seen anything to 
suggest D wasnt happy to renew in 2016 so I cant see theres been any detriment from 
the failure to do so.
Its also important to look at whats actually happened in this case rather than viewing the 
terms and conditions in isolation. In 2016 the contract was rolled over to another term of 5 
years because no notice of cancellation was served but when concerns were raised last 
year, it seems PHS agreed to cancel the agreement and to enter into a new one with D on 
new terms. On that basis I cant see that theres been any adverse impact from this term on 
the club.
I note there are some outstanding invoices relating to the original agreement but, 
regardless of when the contract was cancelled, D would have been liable for any charges 
incurred up to the date of cancellation so I cant agree these charges are unreasonable.
In its submissions D has explained very clearly why it feels the 2011 contract was unfair 
and that the increases have been unreasonable. Ive taken that into account but, for the 
reasons set out above, I cant agree that PHS has made a mistake in the way it has applied 
the terms and conditions for this agreement or that the terms were in themselves unfair. 
I realise D will be disappointed by my decision but, in the circumstances, I wont be asking 
PHS to do anything more in regard to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman