DRN-3086389
The complaint
 Mrs H represents her son Mr H in this complaint.  Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building 
Society (Nationwide) delayed the transfer of her sons Junior ISA.
Mrs H says that the delay caused a financial loss and would like Nationwide to compensate 
him for this.
What happened
On 3 April 2020, Mrs H sent a transfer request to move a Junior ISA from Nationwide to his 
new provider who I will call Company A.
Mrs H hadnt heard anything back from Nationwide and called Company A on 20 April 2020 
to ask about progress. Mrs H was told that the transfer request had been sent but they had 
not received anything back from Nationwide. Company A sent a chaser.
On 28 May 2020, Mrs H called Company A to ask about progress.  Company A said that 
they had sent five chaser letters to Nationwide. Mrs H called Nationwide on the same day 
and was told that there were no records.
Mrs H asked Company A to send a new transfer request by recorded delivery and this was 
sent on 1 June 2020.
On 10 June 2020, Mrs H called Nationwide who said that they had received the 1 June 
transfer request and were dealing with it. Nationwide said to Mrs H that they had received 
previous correspondence but not a transfer request. The transfer was completed on 9 June 
2020.
Mrs H complained to Nationwide about the delays and said that they had suffered a financial 
loss as the unit price of the shares had risen by the time they were able to make the 
purchase.
Nationwide investigated the complaint and responded to Mrs H on 30 June 2020. Nationwide 
said that they had provided incorrect information on the initial telephone call and offered £50 
compensation.
Unhappy with Nationwides decision, Mrs H referred the complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint.
The investigator thought that Nationwide had acted unfairly and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator asked Nationwide to calculate compensation as if the transfer took place on 12 
May 2020. The investigator asked Nationwide to calculate interest at 8% due to Mr H being 
deprived of funds.
Nationwide didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and I think the complaint should 
succeed.  
In their submission to the service, Nationwide have said that they dont agree with the 
investigators view as they didnt receive a transfer request until 1 June 2020. They say that 
they cant be held responsible for not having received the original transfer request and cant 
agree with the rationale to treat the transfer as if it had been completed on 12 May 2020.
Nationwide also say in their submission that they received chaser letters on 4 and 5 May and 
1 June 2020. It is acknowledged that a transfer request was received on 1 June 2020 by 
recorded delivery.
In this decision I have considered whether Nationwide received the initial transfer request 
that was sent to them. I say this because there is no way to know for certain if the original 
request that was sent by Company A was received by Nationwide.
I think that on the balance of probability, the original transfer request was sent by Company 
A, but I dont think that it reached Nationwide. I have noted that Company A was using the 
same address that subsequent letters, which were received by Nationwide, were addressed. 
As I dont think that Nationwide received the original transfer, I will look at what they did upon 
receiving the chasers letters. I think that Nationwide had the opportunity to investigate why 
Company A and Mrs H were asking about the progress of a transfer. Nationwide didnt say 
that they hadnt received the transfer.
Nationwides final letter to Mrs H says that they acknowledge that the call made to them 
didnt provide accurate information and they were offering compensation because the agent 
didnt say that they had received the letters but not the transfer form.
In his view, the investigator has said that Nationwide should have communicated with Mrs H 
and Company A following receipt of the second chaser letter which was received 5 May 
2020. 
Nationwide have challenged this view saying that even if they had responded on 5 May 
2020, the contact history suggests that Company A would not have resent the request 
before 12 May 2020 and then Nationwide would have had five days to deal with it.
In his view, the investigator focused on the fact that Nationwide should have been proactive 
in contacting Mrs H or Company A to establish the transfer request. I agree with this.
Nationwide have said that they were experiencing heavy volumes and they had a backlog, 
but I dont think that this is the fault of Mrs H. 
I think that if Nationwide had looked at the second chaser letter that was received on 4 May 
2020, they would have seen that it related to a transfer request. The investigator has said 
that Nationwide should have attempted to contact Company A. I dont think that this is 
unreasonable and would have resulted in a good outcome for Mrs H who was their client.
In their submission, Nationwide have said that they would have needed to send a letter to 
Company A and this would have been sent within five working days. They have said that there is nothing in the contact history to suggest that Company A would have received the 
letter and resent before 12 May 2020. Nationwide said that they would have had five days to 
deal with the letter.
I have noted what Nationwide have said but I think that it wasnt unreasonable for them to 
contact Company A by telephone given they had received two chaser letters but no transfer 
request.
The investigator has suggested that if Nationwide had contacted Company A after they 
received the second chaser letter then they would have been able to process the transfer on 
12 May 2020.
I think that this is reasonable in the circumstances and I will use this as the basis for 
calculating compensation. Nationwide have challenged the investigators view that 8% 
simple interest should be added saying that it would be excessive as this would give Mr H 
the ability to make an investment for the lost units.
The addition of interest is made as Mr H was deprived of these funds.
 
Putting things right
 I require Nationwide Building Society to undertake the following actions:
Calculate the price of the units as at close of business on 12 May 2020 (Calculation A)
Identify the price of the units on 17 June 2020  the day they were purchased 
(Calculation B)
Calculate the difference between Calculation A and Calculation B. Pay the difference 
between A and B if B is greater.
Pay interest on the calculation at 8% simple from 12 May 2020 to 17 June 2020. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman