DRN-3431316
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Strax Capital Legal Limited are charging their success fee for 
a mis-sold timeshare loan claim.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs C and Mr C took out a loan with a lender Ill refer to as B to acquire a 
timeshare property. They said they cancelled the timeshare property agreement. And theyd 
agreed to use the services of Strax a claims management company (CMC) to make a claim 
that the loan was mis-sold.
Mrs C and Mr C said Strax told them theyd made a mis-sold loan claim to B in June 2020, 
but  that B rejected the claim. And so, in September 2020 Strax said theyd made a 
complaint on their behalf to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mrs C and Mr C said they 
hadnt heard anything else about their complaint from Strax. 
In June 2021, following a ruling by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Mrs C and Mr C 
said that B told them that theyd refund the interest and charges that had been applied to 
the loan. And in October 2021 they compensated Mrs C and Mr C for the payments theyd 
made as B accepted that the loan had been mis-sold. The information letter sent by B 
that accompanied the refund breakdown said that the refund was separate from any actions 
taken by a CMC. Mrs C and Mr C complained to Strax as they didnt think their fees would 
be justified.
Strax said theyd sent a letter of complaint to B detailing the detriment caused to Mrs C and 
Mr C. And had told B that there was legal precedent for their claim to be upheld. After B 
rejected the claim theyd brought Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint(s) to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They said Mrs C and Mr C had signed an agreement with them to 
pursue their  claim with B. Their claim was successful, so they said their fee was justified.
Mrs C and Mr C werent happy with Straxs response reiterating that the refund wasnt a 
direct result of the work Strax had done. They referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said Strax had submitted Mrs C and Mr Cs claim to B, and the claim was 
successful, so he said Straxs success fee was justified.
Mr C and  Mrs C didnt agree they said B had rejected the claim submitted by Strax so the 
success of their claim wasnt because of what Strax had done. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I know Mrs C and Mr C will be disappointed 
by my decision. So, Ill explain why.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, its not in dispute that Mrs C and Mr C instructed Strax to pursue a mis-sold loan claim 
with B. 
The agreement Mrs C and Mr C would have had with Strax was on a No win No fee basis. 
This means Strax charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of 
work they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where a claim was successful, Straxs fee maybe more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I can see, in May 2020 Mrs C and Mr C signed a letter of engagement (LoE) with Strax. I can 
see the LoE under the heading Fees  said:
The Company will apply a 30% (inclusive of VAT) Service Charge to all Compensation 
received by the Client from a Third Party.
And provided examples of how the fee is calculated. So, Im satisfied that Mrs C and Mr C 
knew the services provided by Strax would accrue a fee if they received compensation. 
Ive seen Strax submitted the mis-sold loan claim to B in June 2020, explaining the reasons 
why they considered the loan had been mis-sold to Mrs C and Mr C, including an example of 
legal precedent. And in September 2020, Strax referred Mrs C and Mr Cs claim to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service after B rejected the claim. I can also see that B updated 
Strax in December 2020 when they moved the claim Strax had submitted for Mr C and     
Mrs C to their specialist team. I think this shows Strax submitted Mrs C and Mr Cs claim to 
B and that  B saw Strax as Mrs C and Mr Cs representative for their claim. 
Mrs C and Mr C  said that as B had rejected the claim Strax shouldnt charge their fee as 
the claim hadnt succeeded because of the work done by Strax. But the complaint was 
submitted by Strax and B have now reconsidered their position and accepted that Mrs C 
and Mr C were mis-sold the loan  so Id consider this a successful claim. So, I dont think 
that I can say Strax acted unfairly or unreasonably in charging their fee.
I think Mrs C and Mr C had authorised Strax to act on their behalf in making the mis-sold 
loan claim. And that Strax made it reasonably clear to Mrs C and Mr C that there would be a 
fee payable if their claim(s) were successful. Mrs C and Mr C in signing the terms of 
business had agreed to this condition.
So, Im satisfied Strax by submitting the claim led to the successful refund Mrs C and Mr C 
received. So, I think Strax acted reasonably in looking to charge Mrs C and Mr C a success
fee and so I cant say they will have done anything wrong by doing so.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman