DRN-3766293
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) provided 
him with unaffordable loans. He says Everyday Loans failed to check his financial 
circumstances and if it had done it would have seen that he couldnt repay these loans.  
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr C with two loans for £1,000.00 and £2,473.09 in October 2014 
and May 2015. The remaining balance on loan 1 was repaid with some of the proceeds from 
loan 2. Loan 1 had an APR of 97.3% and was due to be repaid in 13 monthly instalments of 
£153.08. And loan 2 had an APR of 84.6% was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments 
of £193.46. Both loans were sold with ancillary insurance.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have provided either of Mr Cs loans. Everyday Loans didnt respond to our adjudicators 
assessment. So the case was passed forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr C was already 
significantly indebted on each occasion. Furthermore, while theres some suggestion the 
purpose loan 1 might have been debt consolidation, given the small amount being 
consolidated and the additional period Mr C was going to be indebted for, its unclear to me 
how this loan was going to improve Mr Cs financial position. 
I say this while especially mindful that a significant portion of Mr Cs income was going to be 
taken up by repayment to credit and so he was likely to have to borrow further to make his 
payments  indeed he only repaid loan 1 as a result of being provided with loan 2 and even 
this was after a number of returned payments on loan 1. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr C has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible Mr Cs indebtedness reflected his choices rather than 
financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, 
in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mr Cs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Cs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided these 
loans to Mr C. As Everyday Loans provided Mr C with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im 
satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr C ended up paying (and is still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on 
loans he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr C lost out because of 
what Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr C by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including the insurance payments) Mr C paid 
on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;
removing all interest, fees and charges (including anything related to the ancillary 
insurance) applied to loan 2 from the outset. The payments Mr C made, whether to 
Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, should be deducted from the new 
starting balance  the £2.473.09 originally lent.
 
oIf an outstanding balance remains on loan 2 once all adjustments have been 
made Everyday Loans can use any compensation due for loan 1 to reduce 
and/or clear this; OR
oIf once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr C has made 
overpayments on loan 2, these overpayments should also be refunded to    
Mr C together with interest at 8% simple a year from the date they were made 
by Mr C to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information recorded about loan 1 from Mr Cs credit file. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made to loan 2 then all 
adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of this loan should also 
be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman