DRN-4125139
The complaint
Mr G and Miss Z are unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to AXA includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr G and Miss Z took out a single trip travel insurance policy in May 2022 which covered 
their trip from 2 June 2022 to 12 June 2022. The policy was underwritten by AXA.
While on their trip, Mr G was admitted to hospital for a medical condition he suffered from. 
On 11 June 2022, he had an operation at the hospital. Mr G and Miss Z say that they 
experienced communication issues and delays in the way AXA handled their claim while 
they were abroad. 
They made a complaint to AXA. It responded and said it agreed there was a lack of updates 
and communication and delays were caused. It also said some of the delays and issues 
were caused due to waiting for the medical information for Mr G. It apologised for its failings 
and offered £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr G and Miss Z brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She partially upheld the complaint. She agreed there were failings 
in AXAs customer service and delays could have been avoided. While AXA identified and 
apologised for these, she recommended AXA award a further £150 compensation in addition 
to the £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G and Miss Z. 
Our investigator also recommended AXA should pay Mr G and Miss Z the hospital benefit 
set out in the policy terms and conditions and add 8% simple interest per annum from 
2 August 2022 (the date AXA could reasonably have paid the benefit) to the date of 
settlement. 
AXA responded and accepted the investigators recommendations. 
Mr G and Miss Z asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. In summary they say AXA failed to help them while abroad in hospital, they 
failed them as their customers and caused abnormal discomfort and stress. They would like 
cover for private medical care arranged for Mr G as if hed been repatriated to the UK and 
was promised by AXA initially. They also say they suffered loss of earnings due to not being 
able to return to the UK as they were expecting to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The key issue thats in dispute now is the £250 compensation AXA has offered. 
Mr G and Miss Z say they suffered significant distress and inconvenience as a result of 
AXAs handling of the claim and the service it provided. They say the £250 compensation 
offered AXA by doesnt reflect the impact that was caused to them and its not fair and 
reasonable for what happened. Mr G and Miss Z also think £400 recommended by the 
investigator isnt fair for the impact caused to them. I will therefore be focusing mainly on this 
issue.
I appreciate and acknowledge that Mr G and Miss Z went through a traumatic experience 
and dealing with everything that followed must have been difficult and challenging, 
particularly as they were abroad. I also understand the difficulties Miss Z faced having to 
deal with arranging treatment with AXA and the hospital and dealing with Mr Gs operation.
Ive considered everything carefully and looked at what happened from the date Mr G 
became unwell in June 2022. Having done so, I think £400 total compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why and have provided my reasons as follows:
Is the compensation amount fair and reasonable?
Miss Z has said that her understanding was that Mr G would be repatriated to the UK 
immediately rather than staying abroad so that he can get the care he needed near 
home. Ive considered and looked at the information provided and can see why 
Miss Z thought AXA was going to repatriate Mr G. Its unusual for an insurer to 
repatriate a policyholder immediately unless they had instructions from a medical 
doctor to do so. The patient would need a fit to fly certificate authorised by a 
qualified medical doctor and the claim would have needed to be accepted. I can see 
in the notes that Mr G wasnt fit to fly when he was taken to the hospital and can see 
that AXA needed to see his medical information before authorising this. While I 
appreciate that Mr G would have had access to the NHS in the UK, Im not 
persuaded this would have been a quicker process had he been flown back to the 
UK. And, in any case, it seems that Mr G wasnt fit to fly in the condition he was in at 
the time. I dont agree therefore that AXA ought to cover Mr G for any private medical 
treatment because even though the communication could have been clearer, there 
was no go ahead given for Mr G to be flown home immediately. Theres also no 
cover for this under their travel policy. 
Having considered carefully everything thats happened, I can see that there clearly 
has been an impact caused to Mr G and Miss Z. And I dont underestimate the 
difficulties they faced while dealing with getting treatment for Mr G as well as having 
to reach the hospital while he was there and having to find suitable accommodation 
near the hospital. I can see numerous calls were made between Miss Z and AXA. I 
understand that there was a delay in obtaining medical records which could have 
been avoided and an agent could also have been appointed to help liaise with the 
hospital earlier on in the claim. AXA also was informed that Mr G and Miss Z were 
due to return by flight to the UK on 23 June 2022. However, I cant see that AXA 
made attempts to contact them or check that they had the correct arrangements 
bearing in mind Mr G had an operation he was recovering from. 
Ive carefully reviewed the claims handling and the service provided by AXA. I do 
think that there were failings along the way. AXA could have handled the claim better 
and it could have communicated better and avoided the delays that occurred. I can 
see that it has gone some way to recognise this, but I agree with the investigator that there has been an impact on Mr G and Miss Z which means that a further £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. So, in total, 
AXA should award £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to them. 
The awards we recommend for such circumstances recognise the impact caused 
and are generally modest. Based on whats happened on this complaint, while I know 
that Mr G and Miss Z will be disappointed, I think £400 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Hospital benefit
Under section C of Mr G and Miss Zs travel policy, I can see that there is cover for 
Hospital Benefit which AXA hasnt considered as part of the claim. If it hasnt already 
done so, it should now pay this benefit in accordance with this section of the policy 
terms and conditions. I can see its already accepted this in the investigators 
findings.
Loss of earnings
I understand AXA has now settled Mr G and Miss Zs claim in line with their policy 
terms and conditions. Miss Z has said she would like to be covered for her loss of 
earnings due to extending her stay. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and 
this is excluded from their travel policy. So, Im satisfied AXA declined this part of the 
claim fairly or reasonably. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr G and Miss Zs complaint, AXA should:
Pay £400 total compensation for the poor service it provided in handling the claim.
Pay the hospital benefit in line with the terms and conditions of their travel policy and 
add 8% simple interest pe annum from 2 August 2022 to the date of settlement.
Pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G and Miss Z 
accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr G and Miss Zs complaint about AXA Insurance 
UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss Z 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman