DRN-2664338
The complaint
The estate of Mr S has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) lapsing 
a life insurance policy in the name of the deceased. The estate believes Aviva incorrectly 
lapsed the policy and therefore should pay out the full death benefit.
The policy was in Mr Ss name who sadly passed away in July 2020. The estate is being 
represented by Mr Ss father. I will refer to Mr S as Mr S1 and his father as Mr S2.
What happened
In January 2020 the regular monthly premium for the policy was rejected by Mr S1s bank. 
As a result, Aviva sent a letter to him dated 13 January 2020. This stated that the payment 
couldnt go through and that Aviva would attempt to collect it again on 27 January. There 
was nothing further for Mr S1 to do at that time.
When Aviva tried to collect the payment again this was rejected for a second time. Following 
this a letter from Aviva dated 29 January informed Mr S1 of this and said it would try to 
collect it for a third time. It also stated that he could contact Aviva if he had changed his 
payment details or if he wanted to cancel the policy.
A letter dated 30 January 2020 explained again that the payment still wasnt able to be 
collected and asked Mr S1 to contact Aviva. It also explained that if he didnt do that within 
30 days the policy would cease.
Payment was taken in February 2020 but as the policy was already in arrears this covered 
the missed payment from January.
As Aviva heard nothing from Mr S1 it sent him a letter dated 2 March 2020 which informed 
him that the policy and premiums had stopped and he had 30 days to make contact if he 
wanted to reinstate the policy.
Again, Mr S1 didnt make contact with Aviva and so the policy lapsed on 3 April 2020.
When Mr S1 passed away and Mr S2 was dealing with his estate, not knowing anything 
about what had previously occurred with the missed premiums Mr S2 tried to claim on the 
policy, but the claim was declined.
After looking into the matter Mr S2 complained to Aviva. He said that he didnt understand 
why the policy lapsed when the February payment had been successful. He also stated that 
his son hadnt received the letter from Aviva dated 30 January 2020 as he couldnt find it in 
the paperwork he had been working through. He also reasoned that as the February 
payment went through its possible his son would have not realised there was any problem 
with the policy.
Mr S2 also felt that 2 March 2020 letter was issued incorrectly due to the February payment 
being taken and also as this was issued eight days before the march premium was due 
Aviva had acted prematurely and started the 30 days too early. And he explained there was 
no reason why his son wouldnt want to reinstate the policy so something must have gone 
wrong in the communications.
 
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. He 
was satisfied the letters concerning the missed payments and the lapsing of the policy were 
sent to the correct address so it was likely Mr S1 had received them. He was also satisfied 
Aviva had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and therefore hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Mr S2 didnt agree with the assessment so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint can be upheld. I know this will be disappointing 
for the estate of Mr S1 and for Mr S2, especially given the difficult circumstances, but I hope 
what I have set out below explains why I have arrived at this outcome. 
It is normal practice for any life insurance provider to make contact with the policyholder if a 
premium cant be collected. It is also normal practice for further attempts to collect the 
premium to be made. However, this cant continue and there will be a point at which if the 
arrears cant be made up the policy will lapse. Following this there will be a period of time 
where the policy holder can reinstate the policy if the arears are paid  usually 30 days. So, 
from looking at everything involved in this complaint I am satisfied that this is the process 
Aviva followed and this was in accordance with the policys terms and conditions.
In relation to the letters I cant know for sure whether they were all received by Mr S1. All 
I can do is check the address on them, which is correct. Therefore, it is unlikely that the 
letters werent sent and received, and if they werent Aviva cant be held responsible for any 
failures in the postal system. And while I appreciate what Mr S2 has said about the letters 
not being in the paperwork I cant know whether this was because they were never received 
or whether Mr S1 had thrown them away. Nevertheless, even if I just look at the letters 
Mr S2 has agreed that his son did receive they clearly explained the situation with the policy 
and the consequences of the missed premiums going unactioned. So even if Mr S1 hadnt 
received the letter of 30 January I am satisfied that he would have known there was a 
problem with the policy from the letters he had received and would have been in a position to 
take the appropriate action had he wanted the policy to remain in place. I am also satisfied 
that he was given enough time and notice to do this.
With regards to the February payment being taken, whilst I understand this could have 
caused some confusion, I also think its reasonable to expect that this would have been seen 
as covering the missed premium from January. When the payment date for February arrived 
Januarys premium was still outstanding. Therefore, it is logical that any next successful 
payment would have covered what hadnt previously been collected. But that still left a 
premium to be collected for February which would continue until the arrears was made up. 
So even if Mr S1 had noticed the February payment being taken I think he would have 
known the policy was still in arrears and therefore further back payments were needed. In 
fact, Aviva has told me that from December 2019 up to April 2020 when the policy lapsed 
only one premium had been made out of four, which is quite a serious situation for a policy 
to be in. And given the letters sent by Aviva, I think its unlikely that Mr S1 would have been 
unaware of that. It also stands to reason that Aviva enacted its policy for missed premium 
despite the payment being taken and before the March premiums was due. And in lieu of 
any contact from Mr S1 I cant see that Aviva could have done anything else.In summary, while I fully appreciate why Mr S2 feels the way he does and how difficult this 
has been for him I am of the view that Aviva did all it should have done in the given 
circumstances. The policy was lapsed correctly, due to the missed premiums, and in line 
with the terms and conditions. I therefore feel Aviva has acted correctly in deciding the death 
benefit of the policy cant be paid out.
My final decision
My final decisions is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman