DRN-2889656
The complaint
Mr N and Ms K complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent them being 
the victims of a scam.
This complaint has been brought with the assistance of representatives, but for ease of 
reading Ill mostly just refer to Mr N. I will also ascribe the comments of the representative to 
Mr N. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
summary of some key events here. Mr N was the victim of an email invoice interception 
scam. He believed he was making an international payment for a family holiday to his travel 
agent. But the details on the email had been changed by a scammer and his payment went 
to the scammers account, rather than to the agent as Mr N intended. The scammers 
account was with Barclays. 
As soon as Mr N realised hed been the victim of a scam, he reported the matter to Barclays. 
Ultimately Barclays were able to recover around EUR 2,000 from the scammers account 
which was later returned to Mr N. This still left Mr N with a considerable loss, so he 
complained. He was concerned Barclays had allowed a scammer to open and operate an 
account and he held them responsible for his loss. 
The matter was referred to our service. In essence, Barclays said theyd followed their due 
diligence when opening the account, and they couldnt have known in advance that it would 
go on to be used fraudulently. They also said theyd acted promptly once made aware of the 
fraud and recovered all they could.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Whilst she sympathised with Mr N being 
the victim of a crime, she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She didnt think 
Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent the fraud or failed when responding to it. Mr N 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Before 31 January 2019, generally a sender could only complain to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about their own bank in Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam cases.
But Mr Ns right to refer, to our service, his complaint about the receiving/beneficiary bank 
comes about following changes made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to our 
jurisdiction rules. These now allow, in limited circumstances, eligible complainants to refer 
complaints about the bank that received their funds. 
In March 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Barclays, are required to 
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) 
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing 
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship).       
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October 
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice) 
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations 
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays correctly followed their 
account opening procedures in relation to the scammers account. And whilst Im unable to 
share the details of the third party involved, Id like to assure Mr N that Ive carefully 
reviewed this and there wasnt anything that I think reasonably could have alerted Barclays 
that the account they were opening would later be used for fraud. They also conducted 
appropriate checks in line with their obligations to do so.
Ive then gone on to consider whether there was anything in the account activity that ought to 
have alerted Barclays to the possibility of fraud, prior to Mr Ns report. Mr Ns payment into 
the scammers account was for around £33,000 and it arrived in that account in June 2019. 
The same day, the vast majority of those funds were withdrawn or transferred out of the 
account. 
This was in line with the expected activity for the type of account that received the funds and 
its normal operation. As such, I dont think Barclays ought reasonably to have had concerns 
where Id have expected them to have intervened.  
Once notified of the scam, I dont think Barclays could reasonably have done anything more 
to limit Mr Ns loss. They promptly took appropriate action in relation to their customers 
account. 
Mr N has suggested that he has been disadvantaged by means of it being an international 
payment. He points out that banks who have signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) such as Barclays, have agreed in principle to refund victims of scams. He 
believes the same should apply to his payment. The CRM is a voluntary scheme that was 
introduced to assist victims of fraud and scams. But the terms of the scheme are clear that it 
only applies to payments made between two UK banks. So, whilst I accept the point Mr N is 
making, his payment isnt subject to the CRM as it came from a bank outside the UK. I therefore dont think Barclays are being unfair or unreasonable when saying the CRM 
doesnt apply here. 
Similarly, the beneficiary account was in a different name to the reference on Mr Ns 
payment instruction to his bank. More recently, some UK banks have now introduced 
confirmation of payee. This means the sender can check the account name matches what 
they are expecting when instructing a payment. But firstly, this wasnt in place at the time of 
the transaction in question and secondly, it also doesnt apply to international payments. So, 
I cant fairly say that Barclays ought to have made further checks at the time. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr N has lost such a significant amount of money to a scammer. But 
ultimately this is the fault of the criminal acts of the scammers. And I dont think there are 
failings by Barclays which caused a missed opportunity to prevent Mr Ns loss or that would 
have resulted in more money being recovered. As such, Im not intending to tell Barclays to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.  
Barclays didnt make any further comments or submit further evidence. Mr N responded to 
the provisional decision and Ill address his comments below. Now both parties have had an 
opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N repeated his point that if the payment had been made from another UK bank that had 
signed up to the CRM, then its likely his money would have been returned under that 
scheme. He feels the fact that it hasnt been is discriminatory. I cant really add to what Ive 
explained above. The CRM is a UK based voluntary scheme and I dont think Barclays 
joining that scheme means they need to apply the same principles to situations that arent 
covered by the CRM.
Mr N also believes that Barclays ought to have reported their accountholder to the police. He 
says that by failing to do so, they are effectively protecting criminal activity. Ive thought 
about this, but I dont agree. It is for Mr N as the victim to make his report to the authorities. 
Barclays will have systems in place to co-operate with any police investigation, but I wouldnt 
expect them to make the initial report on Mr Ns behalf. 
Mr N has also indicated that he wishes to pursue the responsible party through the civil 
courts and would like Barclays or our service to share more information with him. I can 
sympathise with the position Mr N is in here. But there isnt a basis upon which I can tell 
Barclays to share their customers information with him and our service is likewise unable to 
share this either. If Mr N would like to obtain information about the beneficiary accountholder 
from Barclays, he may be able to pursue this through the courts, but this isnt something Im 
able to advise on. 
Im sorry Mr N has been a victim of a scam. But as I dont think Barclays reasonably could 
have prevented his loss or that they failed in their response to notification of the alleged APP 
fraud, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman