DRN-3555463
The complaint
Miss E complains that EUI Limited trading as Admiral unfairly cancelled a contents insurance 
policy and failed to respond properly to her complaint.
What happened
Miss E told Admiral that her property had been damaged by a storm and that the property 
was uninhabitable as a result. Admiral decided to cancel the policy, telling Miss E that it 
would need to do so because the policy was no longer suitable for her needs.
Miss E complained to Admiral, as she didnt think this was fair. Admiral responded to her 
complaint saying that because the property had been rendered uninhabitable due to the 
damage, the contents policy wouldnt be suitable, because of the policy unoccupancy and 
unfurnished exclusions that would apply. Cover wouldnt be available under that policy for 
Miss E, due to the fact that the policy terms required a property to be occupied in order for a 
claim to succeed, which Miss Es home no longer was.
Dissatisfied with Admirals response to her complaint, Miss E referred the matter to this 
service. In addition to complaining about the policy cancellation, Miss E told us Admiral had 
only addressed one of her complaint points when shed written to it with several issues. 
Our investigator considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said Admiral hadnt acted unfairly by cancelling the policy, or by failing to address all of 
Miss Es complaint points.
Miss E didnt agree with the outcome our investigator reached, so the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and wont be upholding this complaint. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Miss E, but Ill explain why Ive made the decision not 
to require Admiral to do anything further.
Firstly, Im so sorry to learn of the storm damage that Miss Es property suffered. I have no 
doubt that the whole situation has been incredibly stressful for her, and it is by no means my 
intention to add to the worry Miss E has already experienced. My role is to look at everything 
thats happened here, what shouldve happened, determine whether or not Admirals actions 
have been fair and reasonable, and if not, what the impact of this was.
Ive considered first Admirals decision to cancel Miss Es policy. Miss E says Admiral 
shouldnt be allowed to apply the unoccupancy exclusion because she was effectively forced 
out of the property due to the damage, and didnt do so voluntarily, for example to go on an 
extended holiday. 
I appreciate Miss Es point, and have thought carefully about it. And as its for Admiral to 
show that the policy was no longer suitable, Ive looked at the policy term its relied on. This 
says under the Contents section that any: Loss or damage while your home is: unfurnished 
or unoccupied is not covered. Theres no requirement for the insured to have left their home 
voluntarily here. It simply states that no cover is available in circumstances where the home 
is unfurnished or unoccupied. So I dont consider Admiral to have cancelled the policy 
unfairly, because such a term would mean Miss E would have no contents cover in the 
circumstances.
Miss E has told us no one else in her block of flats had their contents policy cancelled  and 
whilst its not possible for me to confirm whether or not that is the case, I cant consider the 
decisions made by other insurers. I can only look at whats happened in this case. Insurance 
underwriters can choose to provide cover or not, based on their risk appetite, in the same 
way customers can choose which insurance policy is best for them. So once the policy was 
cancelled, it was for Miss E to choose a policy that best suited her needs, given that her 
home was now unoccupied.
Ive considered the 11-point complaint letter Miss E sent to Admiral. Its clear from this that 
Miss E expected a detailed response to each of her complaint points, which isnt 
unreasonable. Its not my role to respond to what Miss E feels are unanswered complaint 
points  although I agree with her that the service she received from Admiral fell below what 
she reasonably expected. So I have considered what the impact on Miss E has been of 
receiving this level of service from Admiral.
In her letters she explains she was told on 5 January 2022 that her policy would be 
cancelled. She asked for a call back but did not receive one, so she emailed Admiral and 
received a call on 13 January 2022. I appreciate what Miss E says about the poor service, 
but, looking at the situation as a whole, I cant say the time it took for Admiral to get back to 
Miss E in relation to the main part of her complaint was unreasonable. Dealing with financial 
services isnt always going to be hassle-free and when significant damage occurs to a 
property, together with the insurer cancelling a policy, a certain amount of distress and 
inconvenience is expected.
Regarding the other complaint points, I can see these are closely linked to the main 
complaint itself  about the policy cancellation and the circumstances surrounding that. So 
whilst I wouldve expected Admiral to respond to those issues, I dont think it was entirely 
unreasonable for it to focus on the main complaint issue here  the cancellation of the policy.
So overall, although Miss E was very much distressed by the whole experience, Im not 
persuaded the impact of Admirals poor complaint-handling was such that it caused 
significant additional upset that would warrant compensation in this case. I think its more 
likely that the significant distress she experienced was caused by the cancellation of the 
policy itself, the storm damage, the subsequent building claim and Miss E having to leave a 
property that shed only just purchased and had fully decorated. I say this because its clear 
from what Miss E says, that the situation that brought about the complaint itself, caused 
Miss E immense distress. And although its difficult to unpick how much of the overall impact 
is Admirals fault, Im not persuaded that the emotional and other upset Miss E has 
described is because of the way Admiral dealt with her complaint. I really do sympathise with 
Miss Es situation, but I cant attribute all the distress and inconvenience shes experienced 
to Admirals actions.
I know Miss E wont agree with me, and Im genuinely sorry to disappoint her at a time when 
I know things are very difficult. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be requiring 
Admiral to take any further action here.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman