DRN-3799484
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice, by a business since transferred to 
ReAssure Limited, to transfer out of his final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS) into 
a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) and that it has failed to properly compensate him for the loss 
he suffered.
The advice complained about was provided by Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (LG). The assets and liabilities of certain parts of the business of LG, including 
specifically its retail pensions policies, was transferred to ReAssure Limited in August 2020. 
Mr Hs PPP was included in this transfer of business. For ease of reading, I will refer to 
ReAssure throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr H left his employment relating to the OPS in 1992. In 1993 he was advised by a 
representative of ReAssure to transfer his OPS to a PPP with ReAssure. He says the 
adviser told him that he should transfer out of his OPS because he would get a far better 
pension and if he didnt transfer out his OPS would be frozen. He requested a transfer out 
and this was completed on 23 November 1993.
In 2020, as Mr H was thinking about his retirement, he became concerned that as a result of 
the advice hed received, he had given up very valuable benefits. He says his pension with 
ReAssure will only pay him around £6,000 per year. If he hadnt transferred out he says he 
would be receiving a substantially greater sum from his OPS. He thinks the pension under 
the OPS would be around £23,000 per year from age 65 and wouldve included a spouses 
pension in the event of his death. 
As mentioned above, in 2020 LG transferred its pension business to ReAssure. So, Mr H 
contacted it and raised a complaint.
ReAssure investigated his complaint. It said his PPP had fallen within the Review of 
Personal Pensions (the Pension Review) that took place between 1995 and 2003. It said 
that, at that time, Mr H wouldve been issued with a questionnaire, the advice hed received 
wouldve been reviewed and redress offered to him. It noted that as a result of that review an 
augmentation of £15,916.94 had been added to his PPP on 23 April 2001. 
ReAssure said the Pension Review had been carried out in line with the requirements of the 
Regulator at that time (the Securities and Investment Board  SIB) and the redress had been 
calculated using the assumptions and methodology set out by SIB. Mr H had accepted the 
augmentation which ReAssure told him was given in full and final settlement of any claims 
he might have in respect of the advice given to him.
Mr H didnt accept what ReAssure said. He referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. He said Mr H was aware hed been mis-advised by 
2001. In these circumstances, it would often be the case that his complaint could not be 
considered because of the time limit restrictions in the Rules. But those limits wouldnt apply 
if a business consents to us looking at a complaint. The investigator noted that ReAssure 
had provided our service with its Pension Review file and hadnt raised any objection to our 
service considering this complaint. So, he thought consent had been given and we could 
consider the complaint.
Our investigator said that following the Pension Review it was the case that the advice given 
to Mr H was deemed inappropriate. The Regulator had determined how redress was to be 
calculated. And, although Mr Hs pension had not grown in the way that he would have 
wished or in line with the assumptions used at the time, that didnt mean the calculations 
were incorrect or that the redress awarded should be re-visited in the future. The Pension 
Review had effectively drawn a line under the matter. Mr H had accepted the compensation, 
under the guidance of financial advice.
Our investigator said that because ReAssure had put matters right as part of the Pension 
Review, in line with the regulatory guidance, he didnt think it should have to do anything 
more.
Mr H didnt agree. He pointed out that the advice hed been given in 1993 was that by 
transferring his pension he would get better benefits than if hed stayed in the OPS. The 
compensation hed been given had not put him into the position where he wouldve been if 
he hadnt been given incorrect advice. He said the Regulator had made a massive error 
when it had set out how redress should be calculated. 
Because Mr H did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill comment briefly on the issue whether our service is able to consider this complaint. 
Its more than six years since the advice was given to Mr H and its more than three years 
since Mr H became aware that the advice may have been unsuitable. In these 
circumstances we asked ReAssure to confirm that it consented to our Service considering 
this complaint. ReAssure has now provided its consent.
There is no dispute that the advice Mr H was given in 1993 was unsuitable. In 1994, as a 
result of general concerns about the mis-selling of personal pensions the Securities and 
Investment Board (SIB) ordered a review of the sales of personal pension policies taken out 
between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. 
The terms of this review were set by the Regulator and included the methodology and 
assumptions that should be used when calculating how consumers, who had been given 
incorrect advice, should be compensated. Mr Hs transfer fell within the Pension Review and 
so ReAssure was required to review it.
Mr H was sent the outcome of the review in 2001. ReAssure hasnt been able to locate a 
copy of that letter and Mr H hasnt been able to provide a copy of it either. But, it isnt 
disputed that he received it. I can see that there was correspondence between him and 
ReAssure over the next few years. Mr H was working abroad and he asked for several 
extensions of time to consider the offer of redress ReAssure had sent to him. He also 
appears to have appointed financial advisers during this period and they were also in contact 
with ReAssure at the time. ReAssures records indicate that he accepted the offer of 
compensation in June 2005 and the redress was credited to his PPP. The augmentation was 
£15,916.94.Under the terms of the Pension Review (as set out by SIB) and in the updated guidance 
from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out in Finalised Guidance (FG17/9) if a firm 
has carried out a review in line with the guidance and communicated this to the customer, it 
isnt required to look at the matter again.
Mr Hs complaint is that the compensation he was awarded was inadequate. He thinks its 
necessary to look at the current value of his PPP, compare this to what he wouldve received 
had he stayed in his OPS and then compensate him for the difference. But, thats not how 
the SIB said compensation should be calculated. And, although the amount of redress he 
received in 2001 doesnt now appear to have been enough to compensate him, that doesnt 
mean ReAssure did anything wrong or that it should have to carry out a further assessment 
of loss now.
The Pension Review had to be carried out using the methodology and assumptions provided 
by the regulator. The nature of assumptions is that they cannot be exact  they are an 
attempt to predict what is likely to happen in the future. The Pension Review included 
assumptions about things like future returns on investments.
It is the case that the assumptions used in the Pension Review, in hindsight, havent turned 
out as expected. So, for example, investment returns have been much lower than predicted. 
And, in practice many people have ended up with a shortfall in their personal pension 
compared to what they wouldve got in their OPS. But it is the case that the Pension Review 
was designed to be a one-off exercise based on what the regulator at the time thought was a 
fair methodology using assumptions that it considered to be reasonable. The purpose of the 
Pension Review was to bring finality to both parties without the need to revisit the matter 
many years later. The fact that the assumptions used in the Pension Review havent in 
practice turned out as anticipated is not a reason to undertake the Pension Review again.
ReAssure has provided a copy of the spreadsheet it used to carry out the redress 
calculation. And although our service isnt able to actuarially validate the calculation, Ive 
looked at the data used on the spreadsheet. I dont have a copy of the Pension review file, 
so Im not able to check the source of the data. Mr H has provided a copy of his OPS 
statement of benefits dated January 1993. The figures on that document would have 
changed by the date the transfer happened. But, having looked at everything, I havent seen 
anything which suggests any apparent errors in the data that appears on the spreadsheet.  
And, Mr H also hasnt been able to point me to any specific error beyond his concerns about 
the overall approach that the regulator required ReAssure to take. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that the Pension Review was a very tightly regulated 
process. A sample of calculations would have been checked by the regulator, and if there 
were any systemic problems they wouldve been identified and corrected. The regulator also 
carried out regular oversights to ensure that reviews were undertaken correctly, in line with 
its requirements.  So, Ive no evidence to suggest that ReAssure made an error.
Having considered everything here, and although I know it will come as a disappointment to 
Mr H, I dont require ReAssure to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about ReAssure Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman