DRN-4003087
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Nationwide Building Society declined their request for a 
new mortgage when the term of their interest-only mortgage came to an end.
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, also says that Nationwide failed to 
engage with him and Mrs C about other mortgage options such as Retirement Interest Only 
(RIO) mortgages.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs C want to stay in their home, paying the same amount as 
they were on their interest-only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with Nationwide taken out in 2006 over a 14-year term, so 
expiring in 2020. It was originally on a capital repayment basis, but in 2011 Mr and Mrs C 
switched the mortgage onto an interest-only basis.
From 2013 onwards Nationwide regularly reminded Mr and Mrs C about the need to repay 
the mortgage at the end of the term. On 8 January 2016 Mr C spoke to Nationwide about the 
repayment strategy for the mortgage. He said it would be a sale of the property or other land.
After the mortgage term came to an end in 2020 Nationwide agreed a number of short-term 
extensions while repayment options were discussed. Nationwide wasnt able to go ahead 
with a RIO mortgage, because Mr and Mrs C didnt meet affordability criteria. Nationwide 
also looked at an equity release lifetime mortgage, but this didnt met its lending criteria, due 
to the proximity of the property to commercial premises (a nearby public house).
Mr and Mrs C complained about the lack of help from Nationwide. In its final response letter, 
Nationwide acknowledged that it should have made Mr and Mrs C aware at an earlier stage 
of the issue regarding the nearby commercial property. Nationwide paid £150 compensation 
for this. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She noted that, during discussions between Mr C and Nationwide, hed said several 
times that the property wasnt near to commercial premises, but this was because he hadnt 
realised that a pub would be considered commercial premises. So even if Nationwide had 
asked the question sooner, Mr C would still have given the same answer.
The investigator also concluded that a RIO mortgage didnt meet Nationwides lending 
criteria, both in relation to the loan-to-value ratio or affordability. She was therefore satisfied 
that Nationwide had acted reasonably in considering alternatives for Mr and Mrs C.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Mr C reiterated his concerns about failures in communication by Nationwide, and 
said that available products and affordability would have been different if Nationwide had 
looked at refinancing the mortgage three years before it expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs C; Im not upholding 
their complaint. These are my reasons.
Its important to note here that Mr and Mrs C arent looking for a term extension. They want 
Nationwide to offer them a new mortgage that will effectively not have to be repaid during 
their lifetimes.
Mr C says that Nationwide should have looked at refinancing the mortgage in 2017, 
approximately three years before the mortgage term came to an end. However, although 
Nationwide will remind borrowers in the years leading to the end of the mortgage term of the 
need to have a repayment plan in place, it is usually only in the months leading up to the end 
of the term that an application can be considered for interest-only borrowers who do not 
have a repayment strategy in place.
Consequently, Im not persuaded Nationwide was under any obligation to offer the option of 
a RIO mortgage in 2017. As far as Nationwide was concerned, it had been told that the 
repayment strategy for the existing interest-only mortgage was to be the sale of the property 
or other land.
Because of affordability issues, Mr and Mrs C didnt qualify for a RIO mortgage when they 
applied for one. Nationwide is under a regulatory obligation to ensure that the mortgage 
would be affordable, and for a RIO mortgage, this includes the situation where one party has 
passed away. Therefore Nationwide was entitled to conclude that the mortgage wouldnt 
have been affordable in this situation, and so I cant find any basis on which it acted unfairly 
in declining this.
In relation to the equity release option, this was declined due to the proximity of the property 
to a pub. Again, Nationwide is entitled to decide its own lending criteria in relation to this type 
of mortgage. I appreciate Mr C answered no when he was asked if the property was near 
commercial premises, because he didnt consider the pub to be a commercial business. This 
was a genuine error, but it meant that Nationwide didnt identify sooner that an equity 
release mortgage wouldnt be possible. 
I think the £150 Nationwide paid for not identifying the issue sooner is fair and reasonable. I 
agree with the investigator that this was a genuine mistake by Mr C, but I cant hold 
Nationwide responsible for Mr Cs misunderstanding.
Nationwide is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Nationwide makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Nationwides own commercial judgement that I cant interfere with.
Nationwide has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the RIO application. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, 
because it is commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, 
including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr and Mrs Cs specific 
circumstances.In all the circumstances, therefore, Im unable to find that Nationwide has done anything 
wrong. I know this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs C were hoping for. Mr C has explained that 
he and Mrs C want to stay in the property. I know Mr C has applied for planning permission 
to build another property in part of the garden, and so I fully understand why Mr and Mrs C 
might not want to sell and downsize, as this might be a lucrative project for them in 
retirement. But overall, Im unable to find that Nationwide has done anything wrong here. 
As Nationwide is unable to offer Mr and Mrs C a new mortgage, Mr and Mrs C will need to 
think about how they intend to repay this mortgage, as the debt is now overdue for 
repayment. As suggested by the investigator, it might help them to seek advice from an 
independent financial adviser about their options. Mr and Mrs C can find details of financial 
advisers on the Financial Conduct Authority website at https://www.fca.org.uk/.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman