DRN-2650590
The complaint
Mr R complains about the transfer of his ISA by Barclays Bank PLC. 
To put things right hed like an explanation of what happened and compensation for financial 
loss. 
What happened
Mr R wanted to transfer his ISA from a third-party provider, referred to as the transferor  to 
Barclays, referred to as the transferee. 
On 29 April 2020, Mr R submitted a request to transfer £97,108 to the Barclays Smart 
Investor platform. Hed planned to buy some shares that he said had gone down in price.
On 5 May 2020, Barclays sent an electronic transfer request to the transferor, but the 
transferor says that it couldnt open the message and notified Barclays via an email the 
same day. The transferor has provided a screenshot but is unable to locate a copy of the 
actual sent email. 
On 11 May 2020, Mr R called Barclays for an update, but was (incorrectly) told that it takes 
10 working days to complete a transfer. He called back on 14 May 2020 and was told 
Barclays was still waiting to hear back from the transferor. 
On 20 May 2020, Barclays sent the transferor an electronic chaser, to the same email 
address. It also received a signed copy of the paperwork from Mr R which it archived, until it 
heard back from the transferor. 
The next day, on 21 May 2020, Mr R raised a complaint with Barclays and notified the 
transferor of what hed been told by Barclays.
On 26 May 2020, Barclays contacted the transferor, it says it was told that there was a 
backlog and itd be better to send the paperwork as the inbox was significantly delayed. 
Barclays says that there was no explanation from the transferor as to why it didnt respond to 
its initial request to transfer. The same day Barclays notified Mr R that it was working on the 
transfer and his complaint. 
On 2 June 2020, Barclays posted the paperwork along with a chaser letter. On 11 June 
2020, the transferor confirmed that it sent the funds. Mr R called Barclays the next day to 
advise that the transferor had sent the funds. On 15 June 2020, the cash was received by 
Barclays and the transfer completed.  
Barclays partially upheld the complaint. In summary, it says the transfer took 47 days to 
complete and Mr R missed opportunities to invest his cash, so it didnt complete the transfer 
as quickly as it couldve hoped for. However, it doesnt accept that its responsible for the 
delays. 
Whilst its unable to offer any compensation for missed trading opportunities, it offered £200 
compensation for the lack of update, and for Mr R not meeting the 30-calendar day deadline. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she made the following key points:
Delays were caused by the switchover from paper-based forms to electronic forms, 
during remote working by the parties. 
Whilst Mr R feels that the businesses shouldve picked up their phones rather than 
relying on emails, Barclays didnt know that there was an issue until he called. 
Barclays called the transferor as soon as an issue was identified. 
She cant tell Barclays how to run its business. If it decided to communicate via 
email, even after the issue was spotted its not something that she could blame 
Barclays for. 
The transfer shouldve taken 30 calendar days to complete, so should have 
completed by 29 May 2020. Instead it took 47 calendar days  from when the request 
was initiated to when the funds were received  17 days over what it shouldve taken. 
Delays were caused by the change in the way of working. But shes seen no 
evidence to suggest that Barclays received the reply from the transferor, when it 
raised the issue on 5 May 2020. Barclays tried to resolve the issue as soon as it was 
made aware of the issue. 
Mr R planned to buy shares in Barclays, BHP Billiton and Rio Tonto, but by 29 May 
2020 their prices had already recovered from the dip, so it was likely Mr H wouldve 
missed out anyway. 
Barclays have offered £200 compensation for the poor customer service which is 
broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
submitted a copy of his diary entries, and in short made the following points:
Some of what the investigator says ties in with his notes. But the other bits of his 
diary entry suggest that the businesses arent being honest and are just trying to 
preserve their position because they dont want to pay for any of his losses. 
The businesses failed between them to transfer his ISA in a timely and orderly 
manner. Without his intervention it wouldve taken longer. 
Because he was invested in a cash ISA, he had no control over the transfer to stocks 
and shares ISA. He still fails to see why it even takes 30 days. 
He made a note of the share price of the three companies he wanted to invest equal 
shares in, but the inactions of the businesses have caused him a loss.
The transferor says it sent the email on 5 May 2020, but Barclays didnt receive it. 
Surely the situation can be sorted by looking into the sent messages. 
If he doesnt get more compensation, he likely to go to the press with his case.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr R says, Im unable to safely 
say that Barclays has behaved unreasonably in this instance. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Rs 
strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr R and Barclays, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Notwithstanding what Mr R says about the businesses blaming each other, on balance Im 
unable to safely say that Barclays is responsible for the delays in this instance. 
I should make clear that Im only considering the actions of Barclays in this case and not the 
actions of the transferor. Whilst I appreciate that delays can occur  its worth remembering 
that its not always the business fault. I dont think its necessary for me to reiterate the 
chronology, but on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Barclays has 
helped move things along, as far as possible. In my opinion, the time taken to complete the 
transfer was as a result of a series of unfortunate events causing delays. I cant blame 
Barclays for the initial request not being processed or delays that werent the result of it 
doing anything wrong.   
Barclays says that it was told by Mr R when he called that the transferor couldnt accept 
electronic requests, but Barclays didnt know this. Whether or not this is entirely correct, I 
note the transferor now says that it was unable to accept requests that werent in pdf format, 
which I dont think was clear/made clear to Barclays at the time. 
I note Barclays says that it checked the TISA database  as it was in 1 May 2020  to see 
whether the transferor could accept the electronic request and found no issues, and thats 
why it sent the electronic request rather than a request in the post with the customers 
signature. So, in the circumstances, I dont think Barclays was wrong to send the request 
electronically via an email. I note Barclays says that it even obtained the transferors email 
address from the TISA system, which in my opinion would again suggest it was reasonable 
for it to think that this was an acceptable way forward.  
I note the transferor says it received the email from Barclays on 5 May 2020 and replied to it 
the same day to say that it couldnt process the request, because it either didnt or couldnt 
open the document because it wasnt in the correct format. But despite what the transferor 
says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt receive a 
response, and thats why it didnt take any action at the time. 
Despite what the transferor says, its unable to provide a copy of the email (purportedly) 
sent, other than a copy of the screenshot. In the circumstances, I think its unlikely that 
Barclays wouldve received the email and deliberately not taken any action. 
I appreciate the point Mr R makes about the businesses not picking up the phone to each 
other, but I cant blame Barclays for not doing so as it wasnt aware that there was a problem. I note Barclays internal communication suggests that even by 15 May 2020 the 
transferor hadnt updated its process. In other words, it still appeared that it could receive 
applications via email.  
I note on 20 May 2020, Barclays sent another chaser and still received no response. The 
same day, it received Mr Rs signed application to transfer and sensibly archived it, in case it 
was needed later.  
It was only after Mr R complained to Barclays that it called the transferor  on 26 May 2020  
that it was made aware that it would be better the send the application by post, and so it was 
able to utilise the information it had received from Mr R.  
According to Barclays, the transferor never explained why it didnt respond to its request on 
5 May 2020, or even 20 May 2020. Im satisfied that Barclays took appropriate action when it 
was made aware there was an issue  because the transferors inbox was incapable of 
processing any further requests or words to that effect  by sending the transfer request by 
post. I note Barclays re-sent the documents, as requested by the transferor, by post on 2 
June 2020. On balance I dont think Barclays couldve done things differently prior to this 
because it wasnt aware that there was an issue, and any email from the transferor wasnt 
received. I note the transferor in due course processed the payment on 15 June. 
Im grateful to Mr R for providing copies of his diary. But despite what Mr R says, in the 
circumstances, I dont think that Barclays is responsible for the loss in value of the 
investment ISA. The investment value is dependent on the stockmarket, and its not 
something that Barclays can predict or has control over, especially in a global pandemic 
which is more likely (than not) to have had an impact on stock markets globally.
Thats not to say Im blaming everything on Covid-19. Whilst I appreciate the additional strain 
placed on businesses, if Id found Barclays to be at fault  which I dont  I would be duty 
bound to ask it to rectify the mistake and compensate Mr R for any financial loss. 
Im mindful Mr R says that unless he gets more compensation, hes likely to go to the press 
with his complaint. Be that as it may, its not something that I can let influence my decision in 
this case. Mr R is of course free to do what he chooses. 
I appreciate Mr R will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what 
he says, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman