DRN-3359870
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave him a 
credit card account that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 29 July 2015, Mr G applied for and was given a credit card account with Capital One 
with a credit limit of £200. The credit limit was never raised. The account was settled in 
full and closed in August 2016. 
In July 2021, Mr G complained to Capital One to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr G didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Gs complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Capital One failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Mr G with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Capital One to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was very modest and the monthly payments for 
that credit would have been modest. Mr G told us he was employed at the time of the 
lending decision. And I have not seen evidence of financial difficulties at that time to make 
me think that Capital One would have been put off providing very modest credit on this 
credit card. I have seen that the credit check showed that Mr G had adverse markings but 
only one in the 12 months before the lending decision. The amount at issue with that entry 
was very modest. But it does shed some light on why the initial credit limit offered to Mr G 
may have been so modest.  
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr G to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Capital One to think that the credit it 
provided Mr G was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Capital One could 
see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. I want Mr G to know that I was sorry 
to hear about the personal issues of his situation at the time of the lending decision. But I 
also want him to know that I have considered all of the submissions made to me in this 
case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman