DRN-2596195
The complaint
Mr F complained that Lendable Ltd lent to him irresponsibly and he was unhappy with the 
way Lendable dealt with him when he had payment problems.
What happened
Mr F was given a single loan by Lendable. Here are the loan details: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
112/09/2018 outstanding 60 £9,000.00 £310.23
In brief summary, Mr F said that the main reason for his complaint related to the affordability 
and sustainability of the loan. And he was also concerned about what happened when he 
missed a payment on the account in September 2019 and the events that followed on as a 
result.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs complaint. He thought that Lendable did sufficient 
checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that there wasnt anything in the information 
it gathered which meant it shouldve done more to check the information it was relying on.
So our adjudicator didnt think Lendable had been wrong to provide Mr F with the loan and 
he also didnt think Lendable acted unfairly towards Mr F in relation to his other complaint 
points.
Mr F didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He sent us bank statements showing 
information he felt Lendable hadnt properly taken into account. And, amongst other 
things, he felt that Lendable shouldve made further enquiries when he had stated the 
loan purpose was debt consolidation as the amount he borrowed wasnt enough to 
clear all his other outstanding credit. Mr F thought Lendable hadnt properly assessed 
the information it could see on his credit report. And he doesnt feel Lendable treated 
him fairly when there was a problem with his direct debit.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view of the adjudicator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant to the outcome. I havent commented on everything Mr F has said during the course 
of this complaint where theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has 
said in response already. But I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of this complaint. And I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Fs complaint.
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lendable did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr F and thought carefully about the following key questions: Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay him loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Lendable  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
did Lendable do proportionate checks 
Lendable gathered some information from Mr F before it agreed the loan. It asked him 
for details of his net monthly income  Mr F said this was £1,937 and Lendable verified 
this figure using standard online checks compliant with regulatory requirements. 
Lendable also asked Mr F about his normal monthly spending and it carried out a credit 
check and used an online affordability tool before deciding to approve the loan.
Ive seen a copy of the credit report Lendable obtained when it considered Mr Fs 
application. This indicated that when he applied for this loan, Mr F had 9 active credit 
accounts and his total outstanding credit balance was £21,247 as follows:
£12,560 on an existing loan
£5,320 spread across two credit cards
£1,629 on a mail order catalogue
£951 on a credit sale 
£787 on his arranged overdraft.
Mr F had told Lendable that the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation  in other words, 
that he planned to use the loan to pay other credit in order to reduce his monthly outgoings. 
Looking at the payments hed been making to his credit cards, Lendable calculated that Mr F 
could use the £9,000 loan to pay both credit card balances in full and that alone would result 
in a saving of more than £139 each month. Plus he would still have money left to clear some 
of his other credit.
Taking all this into account, Lendable worked out that the monthly contractual instalments 
that he had signed up to make on this loan should have been affordable for him and that 
his monthly spending on credit would decrease. Looking at the information Lendable had 
gathered and the figures it worked on, that seems right to me. 
And I dont think that the information Lendable had collected about Mr Fs financial situation 
was enough to prompt a reasonable lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth 
checking.
Looking at the credit report it has sent, I dont think there was any particularly adverse 
information shown on Mr Fs credit checks. Mr F had no court judgements or defaults or any 
other negative markers recorded against him at the time Lendable approved this loan.
Its fair to say that Mr F was using most of his available credit and Lendable could see that 
Mr F had been using pay day lending  but those loans appear to have been settled without 
any signs of payment problems and I wouldnt reasonably expect any of this information to 
have been enough to prompt Lendable to be concerned. 
Given the type of lending, I think a lender would reasonably expect it might see information 
like this on its customers credit history. As far as it could see at the time, I think Lendable wouldve been reassured that Mr Fs debt 
seemed to be well managed. 
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Lendable to consider that 
the monthly repayments on its loan were sustainably affordable for Mr F  allowing for the 
amount it had seen he had to pay each month towards his existing creditors, what hed 
declared and given what it could see about the way he used credit.
did Lendable make a fair lending decision?
I've taken carefully into account Mr Fs concerns that Lendable didnt query which debt 
would be consolidated  and it paid the loan to Mr F direct, so it had no control over what he 
actually spent the money on. And I agree, as he says, that the loan of £9000 wasnt enough 
to repay all of his outstanding credit commitments that Lendable was aware of. 
But I dont think Lendable had any reason to think that Mr F wouldnt use the loan for the 
purpose he had stated or assume that it was likely to add to his overall indebtedness. It 
wouldve been enough to clear all his debt apart from the single large unsecured loan he 
was paying. The monthly repayments on that loan were £246 so, together with the 
repayments on this loan, this offered Mr F the possibility of making a significant saving 
compared to the total monthly repayments he had been making. 
Mr F has sent us bank statements from that time to support what hes told us about his 
actual financial situation. 
I can see that Mr F had been struggling with his overdraft for some months  but he wasnt 
going very much more overdrawn than the amount Lendable already knew about from the 
credit checks it did. So seeing his bank statements wouldnt have given Lendable a 
significantly fuller picture of his overall financial situation. 
I completely understand what Mr F has said about the costs of feeding a family. I think our 
adjudicator has largely addressed this and explained that using this loan for debt 
consolidation, as Mr F has said he intended, would have enabled him to improve his monthly 
outgoings and release more money that wouldve been available to cover his other 
spending. 
Overall, for the reasons I have set out, I think the checks that Lendable carried out before 
lending to Mr F were proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for 
Lendable to have relied on the information that Mr F provided and what its checks revealed - 
and this was enough to enable Lendable to gain a reasonable understanding of his financial 
situation and see that Mr F appeared to be managing his money without any significant 
payment problems. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements 
 were required. 
And I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr F made his contractual repayments on time 
with no signs of difficulty for the first 11 months. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Fs irresponsible lending complaint. 
has Lendable acted unfairly in any other way?  
I've taken carefully into account that Mr F was unhappy about the way Lendable treated him 
when he had payment problems.Lendable told us that when Mr Fs direct debit failed it notified him by both text and email. It 
then attempted the direct debit three times more, notifying Mr F each time that it was going 
to do this and inviting him to get in touch if there would be a problem meeting the payment. 
Lendable told us it received no response until Mr F made contact on 24 September 2019 to 
say the problem would be rectified and payment would be made on 30th September. 
Mr F received an email notifying him that a representative from Lendable would be visiting 
him at home due to the period of non-payment and lack of communication. It explained that 
the purpose of this was to re-establish contact and the visit was subsequently cancelled 
once Mr F got in touch to discuss the account.
Ive also looked through the contact notes Lendable has provided to understand what 
happened in January 2020 when Mr F got in touch to notify Lendable that he was having 
difficulty meeting the repayments. Mr F made a proposal that he pay just 50% of the 
contractual amount and Lendable agreed to this for 6 months. So that arrangement 
shouldve reflected the agreed payments were to be £155.12 up until 1 July 2020  and an 
email was sent to that effect.
Due to a clerical error the confirmation email Lendable sent later agreed to a plan of 
£122.12. Mr F preferred to pay that amount and so the plan was then amended to reflect this 
 but not before this had caused a problem at the bank because Mr F had set up 
arrangements to pay £122.12. 
Im sorry that Mr F has had some payment problems but I cant see that Lendable has acted 
unreasonably in its dealings with him regarding this. It made what seem to me to be 
reasonable attempts to secure payment of the missed monthly repayment  our adjudicator 
has explained to Mr F that he can pursue this aspect of his complaint further with the bank if 
he is concerned that the direct debit guarantee wasnt honoured.
Lendable was entitled to follow up the missed monthly repayment and the fact it was able to 
resolve this avoided any adverse information being put on Mr Fs credit file. And it worked 
constructively with Mr F when he had money problems in January 2020 and responded 
sympathetically when there was a muddle over what those monthly repayments would be. 
Lendable told us that as a result of the payment plan issue and an instance where the 
incorrect payment date was put in place, it had decided to credit £122.12 to Mr Fs account 
as a gesture of goodwill. I think that adequately redresses anything that went wrong that 
Lendable was responsible for. 
I appreciate that Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and that he will be disappointed 
in my decision. And Im sorry that he struggled financially and that he is finding it difficult 
to repay this loan. But I dont think Lendable could reasonably have foreseen this when it 
provided the loan to him.
I cant fairly uphold Mr F s complaint against Lendable when it looks like it made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it had available at the time that I think it was 
reasonable for Lendable to rely on. And I dont think it acted towards Mr F in any other 
way that was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Lendable .Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman