DRN-3462575
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D (Mr and Mrs D) took out a loan with Progressive Money Limited in 2017. 
They complain that the loan was mis-sold and that Progressive Money Limited didnt 
consolidate all the loans that were scheduled to be repaid.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs D needed a loan urgently to travel abroad for family reasons. 
They already had several loans from other lenders. They applied online to Progressive 
Money. 
Progressive Money said it would lend them £4,000 repayable over 60 months with a monthly 
repayment of £154.97. Mrs D says she was told it was a condition of the loan that 
Progressive would settle six other loans. It paid them the balance of £989.08 but didnt settle 
one of the loans. Mr and Mrs D only found this out the following month when the lender in 
question contacted them.
Mrs and Mr D complained to Progressive Money. They also said they wouldnt have taken 
out the loan if theyd known that all their existing loans wouldnt be paid off. Progressive 
Money apologised for overlooking the fact that that Mr and Mrs D had two loans with one of 
the lenders. It also said the £4,000 new loan wasnt enough to repay all their existing loans. 
Progressive Money apologised and said it would pay any late payment or missed payment 
charges if Mr and Mrs D provided evidence.
Mr and Mrs D later complained that Progressive Money had mis-sold the loan to them. As 
Progressive Money didnt agree, they brought their complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld 
the complaint in part. He didnt think Progressive Money was wrong to have offered the loan 
to Mr and Mrs D but he thought it should pay them £75 compensation for failing to pay off 
one of their existing loans. 
As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr and Mrs D would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr and Mrs D would have been able to do 
so?
Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Progressive Money to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr and Mrs Ds ability to make the repayments under the 
loan agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Progressive Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr and Mrs D undue 
difficulty or significant adverse consequences. That means they should have been able to 
meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment they had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on their financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr and 
Mrs D. Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
I can see Progressive Money asked for certain information from Mr and Mrs D before it 
approved the loan. It asked for details of their income and living expenses. And it validated 
these by obtaining recent bank statements. It also checked their credit files to understand 
their existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It further investigated its 
findings on calls with Mrs D prior to approving the loan. From these checks combined 
Progressive Money concluded the loan was affordable for them. From what Ive seen, I think 
the checks that it carried out before lending to Mr and Mrs D were reasonable and 
proportionate. I think Progressive Money made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. 
Ill explain why.
When Mr and Mrs D applied for the loan, it was clear they were having some financial 
problems as theyd taken out a number of payday loans. But they explained to Progressive 
Money how theyd come to have unexpected expenses at that time and also provided 
evidence that theyd repaid some of them.
The results of the credit check showed that Mr and Mrs D had faced some financial 
problems in the past. Mr D had 5 delinquent accounts in the last 12 months and 1 default in 
the last 36 months. There were also some historic defaults. Mrs D explained that Mr D had 
been made redundant previously which meant they had been struggling on one salary for a 
while. She also said she was in dispute with another lender. I can understand why 
Progressive Money accepted Mrs Ds explanations.
Progressive Money did an affordability assessment which showed that Mr and Mrs D had 
monthly disposable income of £1,016.09. That was based on their monthly income including 
disability living allowance of £342.40. The disability living allowance was intended to cover 
the extra costs involved in looking after a child with a disability. So I dont think Progressive 
Money should have taken that part of their income into account and it should have worked 
on the basis that theyd have £673.69 disposable income. 
Included in the calculation of expenditure was a total of £813.71 which went on repaying 
unsecured loans, secured loans, credit cards, mail order accounts and past defaults. I can 
see from Mr and Mrs Ds bank statements that they were paying about this amount in the 
month before they took out the loan with Progressive Money. That sum would reduce with 
the credit commitments that would be repaid directly by Progressive Money. The bank 
statement showed payments to payday lenders as well. But I think it was fair for Progressive 
Money to ignore these in its affordability calculation as the outstanding ones would be repaid 
out of its loan. So I think it was reasonable for it to assume that the new loan repayment of 
£154.97 would be affordable for Mr and Mrs D.
I appreciate that it must have been very disappointing for Mr and Mrs D when they realised 
that not all their short term loans had been repaid. Progressive Money has apologised for not 
making this clear in advance to Mr and Mrs D. Mrs D has recently said that they could have 
cancelled the loan if theyd been advised of the oversight within the 14 day cooling off 
period. But by that time Progressive Money had paid off five other lenders. So I think Mrs D 
was correct in her earlier assessment that they couldnt realistically have cancelled the loan 
at that stage. All in all I think its fair for Progressive Money to pay compensation of £75 for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs D by this.
I think Progressive Moneys offer to pay any charges incurred by Mr and Mrs D as a result of 
this was reasonable. Mr and Mrs D should provide Progressive Money with evidence of such 
charges if they wish to pursue a claim for this.
Ive also thought about whether Progressive Money acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Progressive Money to pay Mr and Mrs D compensation of 
£75.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and require Progressive 
Money Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman