DRN-2871748
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund money he lost following him falling victim to 
a scam.
What happened
Mr F has told us that in January 2019 he fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
In January 2019 Mr F received a phone call out of the blue, from who he thought was a 
consultancy company, offering him an investment opportunity. The company were aware 
that he had shares (in a legitimate company) and offered him an opportunity to make a 
return of over £40,000, if he invested £4,025.
Mr F has said at the time he asked the company a number of questions, across a number of 
phone calls, but everything they told him seemed plausible. Mr F has also explained that he 
did carry out some research on the company online, but didnt find anything that caused him 
any reason to have any doubt.
Mr F has said the company sent him legitimate looking documents, including a purchase 
agreement and a document, supposedly from the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Believing the company to be genuine, Mr F went ahead and made a payment for £4,025.00 
through his online banking, the payment went to an account in the Philippines and incurred a 
£10 transaction charge. Unknown to him at the time Mr F had been dealing with a fraudster.
In February 2019, Mr F became suspicious when the company contacted him again asking 
for a further £36,000. Mr F contacted his lawyer, and on his lawyers advice Mr F got in touch 
with TSB and the scam came to light. TSB contacted the beneficiary bank to try and recover 
the money Mr F had lost, but no funds remained.
Mr F complained to TSB, he believes TSB has a duty of care to refrain from making 
payments where it has reasonable grounds to suspect there may be fraud. Alongside this, 
he said that he is elderly and a prime target for criminals, he has never made a payment to 
the Philippines before and TSB didnt contact him to alert him.
TSB looked into Mr Fs complaint and issued its final response on 16 August 2019, not 
upholding Mr Fs complaint. It said that it was confident it had not made a mistake. It said Mr 
F researched the company and so felt safe in authorising the payment and as he had 
authorised the payment, there was no reason for the system to pick this up as suspicious. 
Mr F didnt agree with TSBs position and so brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and thought TSB ought to refund Mr F the money he had 
lost. In summary, our investigator noted that Mr F was in his eighties and thought the 
payment Mr F made was highly unusual and out of character for him, so he thought TSB 
ought to have intervened before allowing the payment to be processed and asked Mr F 
further questions about the payment. Had it done, he thought it would have come to light that 
the rate of return Mr F was being offered was dubious and a warning from the bank would 
have broken the spell.
TSB didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary it said it couldnt reasonably have 
been expected to have prevented the payment. It didnt agree the amount or frequency of 
the payment was such that it should have flagged on its systems.
It added that age is not conclusive of vulnerability and Mr Fs banking profile confirms that he 
is proficient at managing his own affairs. Alongside this, it said Mr F has made previous 
investments and that the ombudsman service should consider activity on his business 
account too.
Overall, TSB didnt think it reasonable for it to have been expected to block and question the 
transaction. And, even if it had of flagged the payment and spoken to Mr F, it thinks it more 
likely than not he would have confirmed the payment to have been genuine.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed over to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider TSB should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr F, when he made the transfer and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Mr F has accepted that he authorised the payment. Because of this, TSB had an obligation 
to follow Mr Fs instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I 
consider that as a matter of good practice TSB shouldve been on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions.
Ive first thought about whether I think TSB should have intervened. TSB has a difficult 
balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that 
might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But having reviewed the payment 
Mr F made, Im persuaded that it wasnt typical of how Mr F usually ran his account and so, I 
think it ought to have caused TSB to be concerned that Mr F might have been at risk of 
financial harm.
Having looked through Mr Fs bank statements, for the six months leading up to the scam, 
the payment Mr F made to the fraudster was considerably higher than any previous payment 
he had made. Alongside this, it was an international payment to a new payee. I think there 
was enough going on that TSB ought to have been concerned. With this, I think it should 
have taken steps to conduct additional checks before processing the payment, as I consider 
the activity on the account represented a possibility that Mr F may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
Im aware that TSB has mentioned that Mr F also holds a business account with it, and I can 
see there are some larger transactions on that account, with sum appearing to be for 
investment purposes. But I dont think that detracts from how untypical an international 
payment, to a new payee, for a larger than is usual amount is, on the account the transaction 
was made from.
Im also mindful Mr F was in his eighties at the time of the scam and I think this is a relevant 
factor here. While TSB has said that Mr F was proficient at managing his own affairs. Mr Fs 
age profile is one that is disproportionately targeted by scammers. This has been recognised 
by the industry for a long time, and more recently by the Banking Protocol and the BBAs 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances.
With all of the above in mind I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably have asked additional 
questions to satisfy itself that Mr F wasnt likely to be at risk of financial harm. In these 
particular circumstances, for example, it could have asked Mr F; what the payment was for, 
how did he hear about the investment, what rate of return had he been promised, what did 
he know about the company he was investing in.
Mr F hadnt been coached about what to say, as can often be the case with scams, so I think 
it more likely than not he would have answered TSBs questions freely. I think it would have 
come to light that Mr F had been cold called and offered an investment opportunity with a 
promised return of 1000% on his investment. 
Im mindful that Mr F had been sent documentation that he thought looked legitimate. But 
given the return on investment Mr F was being promised seemed too good to be true, and 
elderly people being cold called is a common modus operandi with investment fraud - I think 
TSB should have been alert to this.I think TSB could have brought to Mr Fs attention the prevalence of investment scams. It 
would have been able to provide Mr F with information as to what investment scams looked 
and felt like - such as being cold called, that people of his age were targeted, that if 
somebody is offered a return on their money that seems too good to be true then, its more 
likely than not, that it is too good to be true. And importantly, it is unlikely that a reputable 
investment company will promise youre likely to see a return of 1000%. Given that TSB was 
the expert in this situation, I think it also could have asked Mr F if hed checked the firm 
against the FCA register and sought independent financial advice.
Had Mr F been provided with this information, I think he would have become suspicious and 
its more likely than not he would have taken additional steps before going ahead and making 
the payment. Im persuaded this is supported by Mr F making his own initial checks and that 
he sought advice from a professional, his lawyer, as soon as he had any doubts about the 
payment. Im also mindful that had Mr F checked the FCA register, as I think he may well 
have done given what Ive said above, he would have seen that the company he was dealing 
with were not registered. 
I have also considered whether Mr F should bear some responsibility in terms of his actions. 
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of the payment authorisation he was in 
the dark and simply did not appreciate that he may have been at risk. He thought he was 
investing his money through a legitimate company. I am satisfied he was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victims of a clever fraudster. And TSB was the professional in 
financial matters.
Overall Im persuaded TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have done more in terms of 
intervening and questioning Mr F about the nature and purpose of the payment. I do accept, 
of course, that there is a balance to strike, and Im not suggesting Mr F shouldve been 
subjected to an interrogation. But Im persuaded that intervention and appropriate 
questioning wouldve made a significant difference, and Mr F wouldnt have lost this money.
Impact on Mr F
Mr F has told us this situation has caused considerable stress and worry.
The bulk of that impact follows directly from the actions of the fraudsters. But I consider that 
TSB could and ought to have prevented Mr F from losing money as a result of the scam. By 
stopping the financial losses Mr F incurred, it is my finding that TSB could have reduced the 
overall impact on Mr F.
Considering everything, I think TSB should pay Mr F £250 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he experienced as a result of its actions.
 
Putting things right
I direct TSB Bank Plc to; 
- refund Mr F the money he lost, along with the transaction charge
- pay 8% interest on this amount, at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount 
(less any tax properly deductible) from the date of transaction, to the date of 
settlement
- pay Mr F £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman