DRN-3071268
The complaint
Miss H complains AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly settled her daughters claim. 
What happened
Miss H is a beneficiary of her employers group private medical insurance policy with AXA 
PPP. And Miss Hs two daughters are also covered under the same policy.
Unfortunately one of Miss Hs daughters was diagnosed with a condition which required 
surgery. And Miss H used the AXA PPP policy to arrange treatment for her daughter. 
The policy has a treatment limit of £30,000 per person. 
Overall limit 
Your overall policy limit is £30,000. 
This limit applies for each person on the plan each year and to each benefit shown 
below, including Cancer cover and care. Where we describe a benefit as paid in full, 
we mean covered treatment is paid up to this overall limit.
Miss H contacted AXA PPP to authorise surgery for her daughter in November 2019. AXA 
PPP said it told Miss H the amount it had already paid in regard to claims at that time  and 
this was an amount around £4,500. 
AXA PPP has said it spoke with Miss H again regarding the surgery December 2019. And it 
said during that call, it had told Miss H the planned surgery was estimated to cost £25,000, 
but it was possible that the costs could go over the £30,000 policy limit. And AXA PPP said 
any amount over that limit, would be Miss Hs responsibility to pay. 
In January 2020, Miss Hs daughter underwent surgery. And the treating hospital sent its 
bills to AXA PPP. AXA PPP issued Miss H various statements dated January  March 2020, 
showing amounts it had paid for costs related to the surgery. 
In September 2020, Miss H said she was contacted by the treating hospital, asking her to 
pay a bill of around £12,500. She contacted AXA PPP, and it said it had processed a further 
invoice from the treating hospital, which had originally been sent in February 2020. 
Miss H complained to AXA PPP. She said she thought a mistake had been made and she 
shouldnt have been asked to pay such a large amount towards the surgery costs. 
AXA PPP said it had advised Miss H of the policy limit, and the amount which had already 
been used, when she called for authorisation of the treatment. And it had advised of the 
estimated cost of the surgery, and that this could go over the policy limit. It apologised for the 
delay in processing an invoice from the hospital, which in turn caused the delay in Miss H 
being made aware of the amount she needed to pay towards the surgery. It also said it had 
reviewed the charges with the hospital and had been able to reduce the amount by around 
£500. But ultimately, Miss H still needed to pay the amount over the policy limit. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Miss H brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought AXA PPP had acted 
fairly. The investigator said AXA PPP had told Miss H the surgery costs it advised were an 
estimate only, and that she would be liable to pay any costs which went over the policy limit. 
And although AXA PPP had caused a delay, it had apologised for this, so she thought it had 
done enough to put things right. 
AXA PPP made no further comments. However Miss H disagreed. In summary she said:
she was aware the £25,000 was an estimated cost of the treatment, but was not told 
to expect she would have to pay in excess of £12,000 and thinks its unreasonable to 
expect her to have known the costs could be this much over the estimate;
she believes AXA PPP was in contact with the hospital about the scope of the 
required treatment and this would have enabled an accurate forecast; 
AXA PPP gave examples of circumstances which could cause the costs to go above 
the estimate, but none of those circumstances occurred; 
she wouldnt have gone ahead with the surgery if she had known the estimated cost 
was wrong; and
the apology offered is insufficient in terms of the delays in processing the invoice. 
As Miss H disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AXA PPP has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Miss H has provided a detailed submission about her complaint, which I have fully 
considered. However, Im only going to refer to the evidence and events which I think are 
relevant to my decision. 
Whilst I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Miss H, I dont think 
AXA PPP needs to do anything more. And Ill explain why. 
Estimated treatment costs 
Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that AXA PPP made it sufficiently clear to Miss H that 
the treatment cost it advised was an estimate. And that it told Miss H about the policy benefit 
limit, the amount already used at the time, and that she would be liable to pay any costs 
above the limit. And Miss H confirmed she understood this. 
Ive carefully considered what Miss H has said about the accuracy of AXA PPPs estimate of 
the costs, and the fact that she has said she would not have gone ahead with treatment for 
her daughter, had she known the exact costs. However, I dont think I can reasonably hold AXA PPP accountable for not having provided a more accurate estimate. I say this because 
the treatment is charged for by the providing hospital and not AXA PPP. The information 
AXA PPP held was only an indication of the likely charges and individual consultants will 
charge varying amounts for treatment within the same hospital. 
Although I appreciate the actual costs of the treatment carried out were significantly higher 
than AXA PPPs estimate, Im satisfied that Miss H was made aware that the amount quoted 
was only an estimate, and that the costs could be higher. So I think she was able to make an 
informed decision about whether or not she wanted to go ahead with the treatment, in the 
knowledge that she would need to pay any amounts over the policy limit. And I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect that Miss H could have asked for further information from AXA PPP 
or the treating hospital, if she had concerns about how much she might have to pay above 
the policy limit. 
Delay in invoice payment 
Miss Hs daughter underwent surgery in January 2020, but Miss H was not made aware of 
the amount she needed to pay towards the costs until September 2020. 
Miss H has said she was shocked to find out the amount she owed through contact from the 
hospital, and was disappointed that AXA PPP had not informed her directly. AXA PPP has 
accepted responsibility for the delay and has apologised for this. Although the amount Miss 
H owed is considerable, Im not persuaded the delay itself had a significant impact on her, 
based on what she has said. So I think the apology AXA PPP has offered is sufficient, and I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has already done enough to 
put things right, and no compensation is warranted in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman