DRN-3350991
The complaint
Mr S complains that the reviewable whole of life policy Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited, trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada {Sun Life} sold him was 
unsuitable. 
What happened
In 1994, Mr S met with an adviser from a business that has now been acquired by Sun Life. 
Mr S purchased a reviewable whole of life policy with combined life and critical illness cover. 
The critical illness cover was for a greater amount than the life cover. Several months later 
the policy was assigned to a mortgage taken out by Mr S and it later lapsed in 1999.
Mr S, using a claims management company (CMC), complained to Sun Life in 2019 that the 
policy was unsuitable for his needs at the time and that other products that may have been 
more suitable at the time werent considered or discussed. Sun Life didnt uphold the 
complaint and said that the policy was suitable as it addressed a need for critical illness 
protection identified at the time. Mr S didnt agree with Sun Life and brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our Investigators looked into things. 
The Investigator acknowledged Mr S later assigned the policy to a mortgage and that the 
policy was unlikely to have been suitable to protect a mortgage but explained that the policy 
was originally put in place to provide critical illness cover. Therefore, the Investigator thought 
that, at the time of the sale, the policy was suitable for the needs of Mr S. The CMC told us 
that Mr S didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided that the policy was suitable for his needs at the time it was sold by 
Sun Life. I will now explain why.
Mr S met with Sun Life and completed a fact-find on 18 March 1994. This document was 
signed by Mr S and recorded he was single with no substantial life or critical illness cover 
and that he had sufficient disposable income to afford a monthly premium of £20. The same 
document also recorded Mr S had some regular unit-linked savings plans and at least a third 
of a years salary in cash deposits along with a smaller amount of non-liquid assets. It seems 
likely that Mr S was looking to take out a mortgage around this time, although I note that the 
fact-find indicated this wasnt the purpose of the review. It seems unlikely to me that there 
was a mortgage in place at the time, or that the mortgage offer was imminent. Mr S signed 
the application form for the policy at the meeting on 18 March 1994.
Several months after taking out the policy Mr S obtained an interest only mortgage. The 
CMC has explained that it would be repaid using a Personal Equity Plan, an Individual 
Savings Account, and a regular savings investment plan. So, its possible the lender would 
have required some element of life cover to protect the mortgage in case Mr S died. Theres 
no dispute that whole of life policy Sun Life sold Mr S was later assigned to the mortgage 
provider and that it provided was more than enough life cover to protect the mortgage. The 
crux of the complaint is whether the reviewable whole of life policy Sun Life sold was suitable 
for Mr S at the time, particularly as Sun Life was aware Mr S was likely to apply for a 
mortgage.
Because Mr S was single at the time with no dependents and no debt, Ive concluded that 
there was unlikely to be any need for life cover at the time of the sale. However, it seems 
likely that Sun Life and Mr S agreed there was a need for Mr S to protect himself against a 
critical illness and agreed a premium that Mr S could afford. As there was no fixed debt at 
the time, I dont think it was unsuitable for Mr S to have been recommended a whole of life 
policy as this meant cover wouldnt be restricted to a specific term. 
The sale of the policy was more than 25 years ago and neither Mr S nor Sun Life have been 
able to provide a key features document or illustration, but I have seen a copy of the 
completed application form and the terms and conditions from the time. Im persuaded that 
Mr S is more likely to have been made aware that the core protection provided by the policy 
was critical illness cover. I accept it had some life cover that was less than the critical illness 
cover, but I dont consider this makes the policy unsuitable as a need for critical illness had 
been agreed.
I do think Sun Life was aware that Mr S intended to take out a mortgage, but there is nothing 
to indicate the meeting in March 1994 was arranged to discuss a mortgage or any protection 
Mr S may require in this regard. In my opinion, based on the documents and submissions 
Ive seen, I think its more likely than not this review was to discuss protection only. As there 
is no evidence to suggest a mortgage had been agreed or even applied for, I think its too 
speculative for me to conclude any lender would require a policy to be assigned as this was 
becoming less common around this time. So, although I can understand why Mr S later 
assigned the whole of life policy Sun Life sold, it seems to me that this was his decision and 
not something that Sun Life had intended or recommended Mr S use the policy be used for. 
Ive noted the comments from Mr S and the CMC that a reviewable policy was unsuitable 
because it would mean significantly increased premiums later in the life of the policy, and 
that Sun Life hadnt discussed Mr Ss attitude to risk. However, the application form made it 
clear the premiums were being invested and the terms and conditions of the policy explained 
the policy would be reviewed not less than every five years. The fact-find and the additional 
information Mr S has since provided supports that he had taken out investment related 
products prior to this sale. So, I consider it more likely than not Mr S had an understanding 
how these types of policies worked and of investment risk. For completeness, at the time of 
the sale, Im persuaded that Mr S held sufficient emergency funds as the fact-find recorded 
he held more than three-months net income cash in deposit accounts.  
My final decision
Ive decided that the reviewable whole of life policy sold by Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited, trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada was suitable for the needs of 
Mr S at the time of the sale and I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman