DRN-4218263
The complaint
Mrs B complains through her representative, P, that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to the purchase of a holiday product in 
October 2011. The purchase was in Mr and Mrs Bs name but, as part of the price was paid 
on Mrs Bs Halifax credit card, she is the eligible complainant. For simplicity in this decision I 
will refer to her as the sole purchaser.
What happened
 Mrs B purchased a holiday product while on holiday in October 2011 from a company I will 
call D. The product was partially funded on Mrs Bs credit card. In total she paid $18,900 for 
membership. This entitled her to a one-bedroom unit for one week in prime season with 
biennial membership. The contract was for 25 years.
Mrs B believed the product had been misrepresented in a number of ways. In January 2016 
she made a claim under s75 CCA through P to Halifax. She further claimed that they were 
pressured into buying the product. Halifax rejected the claim and said it did not have 
sufficient evidence of either misrepresentation or a breach of contract. It noted an email 
exchange which showed D had offered accommodation. 
A complaint was made to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that based on the evidence she didnt think the 
product had been misrepresented, or that there was anything in the sale or contract that 
might have created an unfair relationship. Nor could she identify and breach of contract.
Mrs B didnt agree and provided further information about the availability when shed tried to 
book holidays. Our investigator said it didnt change her view.
P asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
S.75 CCA
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs B) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (Halifax) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
Its important to note that, as Halifax was the lender rather than the supplier, under the Act a 
claim is limited to one for misrepresentation or breach of contract, rather than general 
unhappiness with what was available under the contract.
Mrs B says that:
We were overwhelmed at the time, virtually locked in a room when my husband showed a 
little interest in what they were offering and they would not take no for an answer. It was a 
very pressured situation and very uncomfortable.
She also said, They made everything they were offering so idyllic and at a very cheap cost 
to book.
I can understand that these meetings often took several hours and the sales agents would 
have spent time extolling the virtues of the product. However Ive not seen evidence that 
they couldnt leave if they wanted to. And its a big step from saying the meeting took a long 
time and they felt uncomfortable to finding the sale was pressured. 
I understand that Mrs B was unhappy with the type of accommodation and locations offered 
to them. I would assume she was given brochures. The information Ive seen about the 
product is quite basic, so Its not really possible for me at this length of time since the 
presentation, to say that the documentation was inadequate or that things werent explained 
to Mrs B satisfactorily. P has sent through some reviews of the product on a travel review 
website, but Ive no way of knowing what relevance they have to the types of holiday Mrs B 
tried to book. 
In response to our Investigators view Mrs B refers to the fact that they were never able to 
book what they had been promised, and that thy were never able to book an apartment  
just a room. But again although she refers to having tried to book a holiday numerous times,
Ive not seen any supporting evidence of this. Im unclear what Mrs B says they were 
promised, but the only documentary evidence of this would suggest that they were offered 
holiday alternatives.
MisrepresentationMrs B alleges that the holiday product was mispresented to her, in particular that:
She was entitled to two weeks on a biennial basis but the contract only allows one week.
The management fees would not increase throughout the course of the contract but they 
have increased year on year to a high amount.
She could get flights up to 30% cheaper. The flights quoted for were more expensive 
than if shed booked a package holiday through a travel agent.
The all-inclusive price would remain the same, but it has increased to such a level that 
she cant afford it with the cost of flights.
Not having been present at the sale its not possible for me to say exactly what was said, 
and in what circumstances. But the terms of the contract set out fairly clearly on one page 
the right to use the timeshare was for one week biennially. 
Ive seen the front page of the contract. It refers to terms and conditions being set out on the 
next page, but we havent been sent those terms and conditions. Nonetheless Ive seen 
very little in terms of what was actually said at the sales meeting to show that any 
misrepresentation actually took place or was relied on to enter the contract. And as I dont 
know in what circumstances any representation would have been made, I cant uphold the 
complaint on the basis of the allegation in question.
With regard to the cost of flights, I can see that Mrs B attempted to book accommodation in 
2014 for one holiday but couldnt book the holiday she wanted. But it does appear that some 
alternatives were offered. As to flights, they may have been up to 30% cheaper elsewhere, 
but I have no evidence that D promised the cheapest flights available. I also note that Mrs B 
was aware that she would have to pay separately for the flights. 
As our investigator has said the sales representatives would have put the best gloss on the 
product and emphasised the benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean that 
this amounted to misrepresentation.
Overall it is difficult for me to conclude that any misrepresentations were made.
S.140A CCA
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Mrs B and Halifax 
were unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and the claim was made within 
this period.
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs B could be said to have a cause of action in 
negligence against Halifax anyway.
Mrs Bs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that Halifax assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
P seems to suggest that NatWest owed Mrs B a duty of care to ensure that D complied with 
the 2010 Regulations. And P says that Halifax breached that duty by failing to carry out  
before granting Mrs B credit and paying D  the due diligence necessary to ensure that the 
product purchased by Mrs B wasnt sold by D in breach of the 2010 Regulations. It should be 
noted that the purchase was made, in part, by credit card and Halifax had no oversight of 
what Mrs B chose to spend her money on.
According to the purchase agreement Mrs B bought a timeshare in an apartment outside 
Europe, so this would mean the sale is most likely governed by the laws of the country of 
sale and that disputes should be resolved before its courts.
It also means that The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 do not apply. Regulation 5 says that the Regulations apply if the contract 
is governed by the law of the UK or any part of it or if relevant accommodation is in the UK or 
an EEA state. Neither was the case here.
I appreciate Mrs B is dissatisfied with her purchase and she has my sympathies for this, but, 
in summary I cannot see why any of her claims were likely to have succeeded. So overall I 
think that Halifax acted reasonably in declining the claims under s.75 and s. 140A CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman