DRN-3271814
The complaint
Mr G has complained that PRA Group (UK) Limited are continuing to report his account as 
open and outstanding after its been written off.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit account that defaulted in 2017 and was sold to 
PRA Group in 2018.
In 2021, Mr G asked PRA Group to write off the debt in view of his circumstances. PRA 
Group agreed, and confirmed the account was now closed.
However, PRA Group continued to report it as open and outstanding on Mr Gs credit file. 
They felt it would be incorrect to report that the account had been satisfied in any way.
Mr G explained he understood that the account would remain on his credit file for six years, 
and he wasnt asking for it to be removed entirely. But he would just like his file to reflect that 
the account was now closed.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They 
understood PRA Groups position, but explained that it was incorrect to record the account 
as still being open when it was actually closed. They proposed that PRA Group mark it as 
partially satisfied, which was normal for write-offs and would reflect that the balance had not 
been paid off.
PRA Group didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I am glad that PRA Group took a positive and sympathetic view of Mr Gs situation and 
agreed to write off this account.
I also appreciate that PRA Group want to avoid mis-reporting things on Mr Gs credit file. 
However, Im afraid that, contrary to their thinking, they are currently mis-reporting things.
Mr Gs account was written off and closed. So by reporting it as still being open and 
outstanding, PRA Group are mis-reporting the situation. Their current entry is incorrect and 
does not reflect the true status of the account. The debt is not open or due to be paid.
When a defaulted debt is written off like this, its quite normal practice to mark it as partially 
satisfied. This reflects that the account is closed and no longer outstanding, but that it was 
not paid in full and there was a balance remaining at closure. That seems most appropriate 
in this situation.
So I direct PRA Group (UK) Limited to record this account as partially satisfied. They should 
backdate this to the point when the debt was written off.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint, and direct PRA Group (UK) 
Limited to mark the account as partially satisfied from the date it was closed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman