DRN-3863992
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in December 2009.
Mr H says that it was not made clear that he would have to pay a monthly fee for the 
account, or that it provided a package of benefits.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that it had been mis-
sold. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have 
happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered everything, on 
balance, Im not able to conclude that the URCA was likely to have been mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mr H says that he was unaware he was paying a monthly fee for the account, or that it 
provided a range of benefits. Whereas Halifax says that its sales processes wouldve 
required the member of staff to explain how much the account cost and to explain what 
benefits were included with the account, before Mr H agreed to it. 
I note that Mr H suffers from memory loss, so I appreciate that he may not recall with any 
detail what happened during the sale of the account. But Mr H explained that his wife was 
present and says she doesnt recall the cost or benefits being discussed either. However, 
even when considering Mr Hs wifes recollections of events on their own, Im mindful that 
the account was sold many years ago, and memories can fade and change over time. 
I can see that Halifax shared a copy of a signed application form with Mr H. And Mr H asked 
where on the form it says that he agreed to an URCA. However, Halifax has explained that 
Mr H wouldve needed to sign the form, regardless of what type of account he was opening. I 
understand this was because Mr H wouldve needed to agree to Halifaxs general banking 
terms and conditions. And although Halifax can now only provide a copy of the general 
account application form, this doesnt mean that the URCA wasnt also discussed with Mr H 
at the time. I say this as the sale took place many years ago, so it is not unusual that a bank 
can only provide limited information from the sale.     
But taking everything that is available into account, I think its just as likely that the cost and 
benefits of the account were discussed during the sale, but neither Mr nor Mrs H can now 
recall that. I say this especially as Mr H was sent a welcome pack shortly after agreeing to 
the account. And I cant see that Mr or Mrs H questioned Halifax at the time why Mr H had 
been sent that - which I wouldve expected them to do if they thought Mr H had only agreed 
to a standard fee-free account. 
Furthermore, I note that in our complaint form, Mr H says that he pays £17 per month for an 
overdraft facility. And I think this is important, because, from everything I have seen it 
seems likely that Mr H agreed to the account because of the overdraft benefits it provided at 
the time. I will explain in more detail what I mean by this.
When the URCA was sold to Mr H, it cost £12.50 a month. And one of the benefits it 
provided was a charge-free overdraft facility of up to £300. So this wouldve covered the 
entire amount of Mr Hs arranged overdraft when the account was sold to him - which was 
£250 at the time.
However, around the time the URCA was sold to Mr H, Halifax was in the process of 
changing how it charged its customers to use their overdraft. In summary, Halifax went from 
charging interest when an account went overdrawn, to charging a fixed amount of £1 for 
every day the account remained overdrawn (although this fixed daily fee couldve been even 
higher, depending on how overdrawn the account became). This change in how Halifax 
charged its customer to use their overdraft came into effect in December 2009  only a 
couple of days after the URCA had been sold to Mr H.
Conversely, the overdraft benefit that came with the URCA meant that, Mr H wouldnt have 
to pay the £1 daily overdraft usage fee (that wouldve applied to his account had it been a 
fee-free account instead) - providing he remained within his £250 limit. So essentially, as the 
URCA cost £12.50 a month, itd work out cheaper to have the URCA if Mr H was overdrawn 
for 13 days or more each month, then if he had taken out a fee-free account and paid the £1 
daily overdraft usage fee instead. 
Looking at Mr Hs bank statements from when it was sold to him, I can see that he was 
regularly operating his account in an overdraft. I can see in the sample of bank statements 
that have been provided, that Mr H continued to regularly use his overdraft in the months 
after hed opened the URCA as well. And given that Mr H applied for an arranged overdraft 
at the same time he opened the account, this makes me think that Mr H mayve anticipated 
needing to regularly use an overdraft facility on his account when he agreed to it.
So taking everything into account, I think its much more likely that Halifax explained the cost 
and the overdraft benefit, and this was why Mr H agreed to open the URCA. And I think this 
may explain why Mr H believed that the monthly fee was for the overdraft - as it was 
essentially the case that by paying the monthly URCA fee, he would not have to pay any 
other fee to use his overdraft (providing he didnt exceed his limit).
Mr H says that he wasnt provided with any information about the account benefits. But, as I 
mentioned above, I think it likely that Halifax wouldve mentioned the account benefits during 
sale, especially the overdraft benefit - even if only briefly. 
However, I accept that Mr H might not have been given all of the important information about 
the account when it was sold to him. For example, he says he wasnt informed about the 
need to register a mobile phone under the mobile phone insurance (which was removed as a 
requirement of the mobile phone policy in 2011). But as I think he most likely agreed to open 
the URCA largely for the overdraft benefit, I dont think it is likely he wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, even if he had been given more information about it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold.Turning now to some of the specific points raised by Mr H, he says he was never informed of 
the benefits of the account. But Halifax has provided evidence to show that it sent Mr H a 
welcome pack, which detailed the account benefits, shortly after he took out the account. 
And Halifax has provided evidence to show he was sent an annual eligibility reminder (which 
summarised the insurance benefits, the key terms and invited Mr H to check the benefits 
were still suitable for him) since 2014. So I cant reasonably say that Halifax failed to provide 
Mr H with information about the benefits on the account during the years that he held it.
I can also see that Mr H has said that the monthly fees added to his financial difficulties. 
However, given that I think the URCA monthly account fees were correctly applied to the 
account, I cant reasonably ask Halifax to refund them. But if Mr H is unhappy with how 
Halifax dealt with his financial difficulties in general and believes that Halifax shouldve taken 
specific measures to support him, then those concerns will need to be raised as a separate 
complaint, as this complaint only concerns whether his packaged account was mis-sold.
I note that the URCA overdraft benefits have changed during the time that Mr H held the 
account. So I do appreciate that the account may not have ended up saving Mr H as much 
money as he initially expected it to. But this does not mean it was wrong for Halifax to have 
sold the account when it did.
Finally, Mr H mentioned in his correspondence with our service that he is unhappy that a 
member of staff in branch said loudly that a deposit into his account took him out of his 
overdraft. However, as this did not form part of the original complaint, and concerns a matter 
separate to the sale of the URCA, hell have to raise his concerns with Halifax in the first 
instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman