DRN-2799392
The complaint
Mr B complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) failed 
to reissue a flight voucher issued to him for use on a flight provided by a third-party flight 
operator.
What happened
Mr B holds an Amex Card. Acceptance for the card entitled Mr B to receive a flight voucher 
to be used with a specified airline if he met certain qualifying criteria. Having met the 
requirement, a flight voucher was issued to Mr B. 
In January 2020, Mr B booked an overseas return flight for himself and a companion. He 
used the flight voucher to purchase one of the return tickets. The out-bound flight was 
completed on 14 March 2020. They were scheduled to return to the UK on 30 March 2020.
On 20 March 2020, the flight operator cancelled the return flight. Then, on 23 March 2020, 
the UK Government issued advice for all UK citizens currently overseas to return to the UK 
as quickly as possible. The airline said that they didnt expect to be able to offer a return 
flight until 28 April 2020. They suggested contacting the local British Embassy.
Mr B succeeded in securing return flights for him and his companion through another flight 
provider, returning on 29 March 2020. But Mr B had to pay for these flights. So, Mr B 
contacted Amex and asked them to issue him with a replacement flight voucher. He didnt 
believe that the offer had been honoured. When Amex failed to respond to Mr Bs request, 
he decided to refer matters to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He asked Amex to investigate matters 
first and respond to Mr B. Amex didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong. But they did 
think that they had failed in their service by not responding to Mr Bs original request 
promptly. They paid compensation of £100 to reflect this.
Mr B wasnt happy with their response. So, our investigator looked into his complaint further. 
He also didnt think that Amex had done anything wrong here. Mr B was unhappy with this 
view and asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to clearly understand the relationship between Amex and the airline company 
here. Amex provide and administer a credit card account which is co-branded with the 
airline. The flight voucher is issued by the airline company, not Amex. Amexs role here is to 
tell the airline company when Mr B has met the spend threshold for a voucher to be issued. 
The airline company then issue the voucher against the membership account that Mr B 
holds with them. 
Mr B has said that his contractual relationship is with Amex and not the airline. While Mr B 
does have a contractual relationship with Amex, in order to receive his voucher, the 
schemes terms and conditions state that Mr B has to be a member of the airlines 
Executive Club. The voucher is issued against that membership by the airline company. 
Further, the use of the voucher requires Mr B to purchase a flight ticket with that airline. The 
flight voucher can only be used to purchase an additional accompanying ticket on the same 
flight(s). So, here, it was the airline company who were providing the service in relation to 
the voucher that Mr B is unhappy with, not Amex.
In Mr Bs case, he asked Amex to provide him with a new voucher. I realise he will be 
disappointed, but as Amex didnt issue the original voucher, I agree that theyd be unable to 
issue a replacement themselves. Amex did say that they had approached the airline to ask if 
a replacement voucher could be issued. Unfortunately, this wasnt possible. I cant 
reasonably hold Amex responsible for a commercial decision made by a third party and I 
think Amex did what it should have in trying to see if the airline would issue a replacement.
Amex did accept that they hadnt handled his original request for a replacement voucher 
promptly. So, they paid compensation of £100 to Mr B to reflect this mistake. I think that this 
is fair and is what Id expect to see in these circumstances.
Ive also considered the Terms and Conditions relating to the card account that Mr B 
accepted. Under the heading of Other important information, the section entitled Claims 
against rewards providers states We are not liable for claims regarding any failure or 
breach with respect to goods and services provided as rewards by third parties. Third party 
rewards may also be subject to separate Terms and Conditions.
Mr B believes the Terms and Conditions of the scheme to be unfair. Hes referenced various 
legislation in order to support his argument. This service was established to provide an 
alternative dispute resolution process for companies and activities regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. In doing so, I have to consider the individual circumstances of this 
complaint to decide whats fair and reasonable. Ive had regard for all that Mr B has said in 
this respect, but its not my role to say whether Amexs terms here are fair or unfair in a 
wider, more general, sense. 
Instead Ive looked at the terms to see whether or not theyve led to a fair outcome in the 
individual circumstances here. In my view  they have. They explain what Amexs role is in 
terms of these vouchers. Mr B has then been able to raise concerns with Amex about its part 
in this situation and it has responded appropriately. Hes also been able to raise concerns 
with the airline, even if this hasnt resulted in what he wants. So overall, I cant see that the 
application of the terms here means that Mr B has been treated unfairly  even though I 
realise hell see it differently. Of course, if Mr B chooses not to accept my decision, he will 
retain his right to seek resolution by any other means available to him.
I completely sympathise with Mr Bs situation at the time when his flight was cancelled. Not 
only would this have been frustrating, but I can imagine caused considerable distress and 
concern. But Im afraid I cant reasonably hold Amex responsible for the actions of the flight 
provider. They wouldve had no control over this. So, although I understand that Mr B will be 
disappointed by my decision, I dont believe that Amex have done anything wrong here. So, I 
shant be asking them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman