DRN-3141934
The complaint
Mr T believes Bamboo Limited acted irresponsibly by accepting him as a guarantor for a 
high interest loan.
What happened
On 9 March 2016, Bamboo approved a loan £5,000 over 60 months; at an interest rate of 
49.7% APR, with monthly repayments of £197.09. Bamboo accepted Mr T as guarantor for 
this loan. The loan was repaid in full in 2021.
Mr T has complained Bamboo didnt act responsibly when accepting him as a guarantor. He 
said he was struggling financially when the loan was approved; and making payments to the 
loan couldve crippled him financially, if he didnt have the support of a friend who made the 
payments on his behalf (once the main borrower stopped paying).
Bamboo thought theyd acted reasonably when they accepted Mr T as a guarantor. Mr T 
wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator didnt think that Bamboo had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when they accepted Mr T, given the monthly payments and the length of the loan. 
She said that Mr T had a history of reliance on short-term high-interest payday loans, which 
indicated that he mayve been struggling financially.
The investigator reviewed Mr Ts bank statements from the time the loan was approved. And 
she said these showed Mr T was struggling financially and didnt have enough disposable 
income if he was ever called on to make the loan payments. So, she didnt think Bamboo 
had made a fair decision by accepting Mr T as a guarantor.
The investigator recommended that Bamboo should release Mr T as a guarantor, refund any 
payments hed made (including statutory interest), and remove any adverse information 
about the loan from his credit file.
Bamboo didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mr T had the option not to guarantor 
the loan, but he chose to do this. They thought the checks theyd done were reasonable and 
proportionate, so they didnt think they needed to do any additional checks. And they thought 
that Mr T had enough disposable income to support the loan, but hed chosen to spend this 
on other things which had caused him to struggle financially.
Bamboo also said that it was only after a change in the relationship between Mr T and the 
main borrower  two years into the loan  that Mr T became unhappy with his decision to be 
guarantor. And because someone else, and not Mr T, paid the loan when the main borrower 
couldnt, they dont think that Mr T suffered any detriment. Because of this, Bamboo asked 
for an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr T 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Bamboo didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Ts 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Bamboo said that Mr T declared a monthly income of £1,214, which they confirmed through 
a verification tool. They said Mr T had declared he was living at home with his parents and 
paying £200 a month board. Bamboo also said thy applied an average monthly living 
expense of £225.90, which had been calculated through Office for National Statistics data. 
Bamboo also said they checked Mr Ts credit file, which showed he had three payday loans 
that had been managed well, with no missed payments. They also said the credit file showed 
Mr T had a total debt of £207.05 at the time off the application. Based on all of this, they felt 
that the loan was affordable, if Mr T needed to make the payments.
Ive seen a copy of the credit file Bamboo checked at the time of the application. This shows 
Mr T was living with family members. It also shows he was paying £74 a month for a loan, 
and that he had three active payday loans, with payments totalling £170 a month. While this 
is the £244 a month Bamboo took into consideration in their affordability calculation, the total 
amount Mr T owed was £1,625, not the £207.05 Bamboo calculated.
The credit search also shows that Mr T was reliant on payday loans, going back to February 
2013. And, between 9 June 2015 and 15 February 2016, Mr T had taken out 12 separate 
payday loans, all for between £50 and £200. While I agree with Bamboo that Mr T had 
maintained payments to all of his credit commitments; I consider that the regular use of 
payday lending, right up to the time of the application, was an indication that Mr T mayve 
been struggling financially.
I would therefore have expected Bamboo to have done additional checks before accepting 
him as a guarantor.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr T could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?The main additional check Id expect Bamboo to have done is to have asked Mr T about his 
commitments and other expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of 
application, and to see that affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of the 
lending. This couldve been done by a number of methods, and I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Bamboo to have asked Mr T for copies of his bank statements.
However, Mr T has provided his bank statements for the period 3 November 2015 to 2 
March 2016. He was accepted as a guarantor in March 2016 so, in the absence of anything 
else, I think these statements give a good indication of what Bamboo would likely have 
discovered if theyd asked about Mr Ts expenditure at the time.
The bank statements show that Mr Ts average monthly income was £1,256.23. In addition 
to the loans showing in his credit file, Mr T also paid an average of £162.24 a month to his 
mobile phone, as well as paying for a gym membership (£25.99) and for a monthly cinema 
pass (£16.90). This is less than the £225.90 figure Bamboo used in their calculations.
So, Mr Ts average monthly income (£1,256.23) less his board (£200), living expenses 
(£225.90) and loan repayments (£244), would leave him with £586.33 disposable income. 
From this Mr T would need to pay things such as food, clothing and transport, as well as any 
other discretional spending he may have had. And Bamboo would need to be satisfied that 
he had at least £197.09 left after this expenditure, to say he was suitable as a guarantor.
However, it was also clear from the bank statements that Mr T was struggling with his 
finances. Each month there was insufficient money to pay his mobile phone bill on the day 
the direct debit was due, and this resulted in multiple bank charges, as well as charges for 
going overdrawn. The bank statements also show Mr Ts reliance on payday loans to fund 
his monthly expenditure.
Mr T was making a substantial number of regular payments for in-game purchases on video 
games. Bamboo have said that it was these in-game purchases that caused Mr T to have 
insufficient money to pay his phone bills, and without these he would be able to afford their 
loan payment if it was necessary for him to pay this.
I disagree with Bamboo on this. In December 2015 alone, Mr T made 27 in-game purchase 
transactions, to a value of £248.12. Because of the amount a frequency of these payments, 
and the impact they were clearly having on Mr Ts personal finances, Im satisfied this was a 
habitual trend. And, if Mr T was able to reduce stop making these in-game purchases, he 
wouldve likely done so before he reached the point where he needed to rely on regular 
payday lending.  
So, I dont think its reasonable for Bamboo to rely on Mr T changing his spending habits to 
make the loan affordable to him, if he was called on to make payments. And, for these 
reasons, I dont think it was reasonable for Bamboo to accept Mr T as a guarantor.
Based on this, Im satisfied that, had Bamboo carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, they wouldve seen that Mr T wasnt suitable as a guarantor for this loan. And Im 
satisfied they acted irresponsibly by accepting him as a guarantor.
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things rightAs I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Mr T 
back in the position he wouldve been in if he hadnt been accepted as a guarantor.
So, Im satisfied that Bamboo should:
release Mr T from any outstanding obligations he has as a guarantor for this loan;
refund any payment Mr T paid as guarantor, along with 8% simple interest a year 
calculated from the date of the payments to the date of the refund ; and
remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ts credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And Bamboo Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman