DRN-1710082
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mr S disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S says that PPI was never mentioned to him  had it been, he wouldve refused the 
policy - and he didnt need to take out PPI. He says that he has a clear recollection of the 
meeting that took place and remembers the discussion he had with Lloyds member of staff. 
He says that he was always against PPI, and that he would always have declined to take out 
a policy. 
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said  so I have to rely on the 
information that I do have.  
Lloyds has provided a copy of his credit card application  and while the copy isnt 
particularly clear, given its age, I am familiar with this type of agreement, and I can see that 
in the section optional features that the PPI has been selected. Mr S has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it.
So, taking everything in to account, I think Lloyds made it clear that the PPI was optional and 
Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI but chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he remembers differently as this was over 20 years ago. 
Its likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover, given what hes said about his personal 
circumstances at the time. For example, if Mr S had needed to make a claim on the PPI 
policy, it couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than the existing cover he had. And 
although Mr S has also mentioned that his wife was in a secure job, this was Mr Ss credit 
card, and ultimately, he was responsible for making his repayments.
Its also possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think he chose to take it out - it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about a call he had 
with a Lloyds representative in October 2019. 
Mr S has asked if we have a copy of the call and listened to it  but Lloyds no longer has a 
copy of the call. Mr S has provided his own transcript of what was discussed  and he says 
that this conversation shows that the PPI was mis-sold.
But I disagree. This conversation took place twenty years after the policy was sold  and I 
need to look at what happened at the point of sale. So, this doesnt change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman