DRN-3669416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain TSB Bank plc has not treated them fairly in a dispute they raised 
over a debit card payment for a timeshare exit service.
What happened
All parties to the complaint are familiar with the background so I will summarise what 
happened only briefly:
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs P paid a company Ill call M £4,836 on a debit card 
linked to their joint TSB bank account. The payment was for a service whereby M 
would release them from their liability for some timeshare-like products (I will just 
refer to them as timeshares).
The contract with M stated that Mr and Mrs P would be released from their 
timeshares within 12 months of September 2020.
Mr and Mrs P were not released from their timeshares within 12 months. They say 
they didnt in fact hear anything from M at all after theyd paid the company. They 
tried to get in contact with M but received no reply. By January 2021 they had lost 
confidence and decided to pursue a refund.
Mr and Mrs P had made other payments to M on cards they hold with different card 
issuers. Around February 2021 one of these card issuers (C) advised Mr and Mrs P 
to wait until 12 months from September 2020 had expired, as it was possible M could 
still fulfil the contract by then. 
Mr and Mrs P contacted all their card issuers once the 12 months had expired. Two 
of them, T and C, refunded the amounts paid on their cards. TSB said it couldnt 
help because it was too late, under the rules of the Visa card scheme, for it to try to 
dispute the payment. Mr and Mrs P expressed their disagreement with TSBs 
position, but they were unable to persuade the bank to change its mind. Dissatisfied 
with the situation, they referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought it should be upheld, 
reasoning that it had not been too late to dispute the payment and a dispute would 
have had a chance of succeeding. She recommended the bank treat Mr and Mrs P 
as though it had successfully disputed the payment, and pay them compensatory 
interest. TSB disagreed and so the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone pays for goods or services using a debit card, and they have certain kinds of 
problem with their purchase, then they can ask their card issuer to dispute the card payment 
via the dispute resolution system administered by the scheme to which their card belongs 
(Visa in this case). This process of claiming a refund is often referred to as a chargeback.
The card schemes rules set out the circumstances in which a chargeback can be attempted 
and the conditions which need to be met for it to be successful. A chargeback can be 
contested (defended) by the other side to the dispute and, if no side is willing to concede, 
the card scheme itself can be asked to make a ruling.
While there is no general right for a person to demand their card issuer attempt a 
chargeback, I would normally expect a card issuer, faced with a customer looking to dispute 
a card payment, to consider the avenues available for it to help. If a chargeback is an 
available option, and it would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding, then I would 
expect the card issuer to attempt one. I would also expect it to deal with the chargeback 
process in a competent way, without making mistakes. 
In Mr and Mrs Ps case, TSB considered attempting a chargeback but decided not to do so. 
Its reasoning at the time, and since, is that it only had 120 days from the date of the payment 
to M to attempt a chargeback.
Ive considered the relevant parts of the card scheme rules to determine whether or not TSB 
was correct to say this. The rules say that a chargeback can be made where goods or 
services have been paid for and not received. There doesnt appear to be any dispute that 
Mr and Mrs P did not receive the services they paid M for, but for the avoidance of doubt I 
agree the evidence strongly suggests this was the case.1
The rules go on to cover the timeframe in which a chargeback must be made:
A Dispute must be processed no later than any of the following:
120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date
120 calendar days from the last date the Cardholder expected to receive the 
merchandise of services [but not to exceed 540 days from the Transaction 
Processing Date].

Based on TSBs arguments I understand it may be saying that it is the first of these time 
limits which applies. Unfortunately, like our investigator, I think the bank has got this wrong. 
Its apparent from the context in which the rules appear that it is intended that whichever 
time limit gives the longest window in which to make a chargeback, is the one which applies. 
It would not be logical for it to work the other way around.
I can understand there is perhaps some ambiguity over how the last date the Cardholder 
expected to receive the service is to be defined, as arguably a person who realises that they 
will not receive a service before it is due to be provided or completed, no longer expects to 
receive that service, and as such the 120 days should begin from the date of realisation. 
However, guidance produced by the card scheme in April 2021 shows this is not the case:
Note: The dispute can be pursued from either the expected date [of the service] or the date 
1 There is evidence that Mr and Mrs P contacted M multiple times without receiving a reply. They have 
also been able to demonstrate they are still being billed for management fees from at least one of 
their timeshare companies, showing they have not been released from their obligations. More broadly, 
the circumstances bear the hallmarks of a common scam targeting timeshare owners.[on] which the cardholder was first made aware that the services would not be provided.
The contract with M said Mr and Mrs P would be released from their timeshares within 12 
months of their making full payment for the service. This happened on or about 16 
September 2020, so the last date they could have expected to receive the service would 
have been 16 September 2021 and TSB would have had 120 days from this date to attempt 
a chargeback. Mr and Mrs P wrote to TSB asking it to press ahead with the dispute later the 
same month, so they were in time and the banks reason for not proceeding (that it was 
out of time) was clearly incorrect.
Based on the evidence Ive seen and my reading of the relevant scheme rules, had TSB 
attempted a chargeback after Mr and Mrs P approached it in September 2021, this would 
have had at least a reasonable prospect of succeeding. The bank acted wrongly in deciding 
not to attempt a chargeback and now Mr and Mrs P have lost the opportunity to receive a 
refund in this way. 
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable if TSB were to treat Mr and Mrs P as though 
it had successfully charged back the payment of £4,836 at the time they approached it in 
September 2021. It should also pay compensatory interest on this refund to reflect the fact 
that its mistake has left Mr and Mrs P without these funds for longer than would have 
otherwise been the case.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct TSB Bank plc 
to take the following actions:
1) Refund the payment of £4,836 made on the TSB debit card to M in September 2020.
2) Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the refund, calculated from the date it received 
Mr and Mrs Ps request for help with the transaction in September 2021, to the date 
the refund is made.
*If TSB Bank plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much tax its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman