DRN-4413852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund over 
£141,272.05 they lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr and Mrs P fell victim to an investment scam in 
January 2021 after finding an investment broker (S) online. 
S encouraged Mr and Mrs P to invest, leading them to make the following payments over the 
next six months:
Date Amount Payee Payment method
05/01/2021 £497.24 S (SIPAY) Credit card
05/01/2021 £496.67 S (SIPAY) Credit card
22/01/2021 £2000 Luno Faster payment
19/02/2021 £14,500 Luno Faster payment
25/02/2021 £4,766.77 Luno Faster payment
26/02/2021 £8,400 Luno Faster payment
25/03/2021 £10,000 Luno Faster payment
16/04/2021 £20,800 Luno Faster payment
26/04/2021 £35,311.37 Luno Faster payment
02/06/2021 £15,000 Luno Faster payment
04/06/2021 £14,000 Binance Faster payment
21/06/2021 £15,500 Binance Faster payment
Mr and Mrs P realised they had been scammed in June 2021 when their son overheard a 
conversation with the scammer. They reported the fraud to NatWest, who declined to offer a 
refund of the money they had lost. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She didnt think any of the 
payments would have appeared particularly unusual in light of Mr and Mrs Ps account 
history as they had made larger transfers in the past. She also didnt think an intervention 
would have likely prevented them from making the payments. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so 
the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2023. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs P have fallen victim to a scam here, not that they 
authorised the disputed payments they made from their NatWest account and credit 
card. The payments were requested by them using their legitimate security 
credentials provided by NatWest, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether NatWest should have done more to prevent 
Mr and Mrs P from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a 
bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Credit card transactions
In terms of the two credit card transactions Mr and Mrs P made directly to the 
scammer, Im not persuaded these would have appeared particularly unusual or out 
of character. Cumulatively, the two payments did not exceed £1,000, so I dont think 
there was any cause for NatWest to have been concerned. There was also no FCA 
or IOSCO warning about the merchant at the time that would have required the bank 
to automatically block the card payments. As a result, I dont think NatWest was 
required to block or question Mr and Mrs P about these payments, so I dont intend 
asking it to refund them.
Ive also thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr and Mrs P reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent via 
credit card can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. 
However, there are very limited options for payments that have gone to any type of 
investment. Mr and Mrs Ps claim was that they could not withdraw their funds from 
their trading account with S and that they were operating fraudulently.
Mastercards scheme does not consider claims about being unable to withdraw funds 
from trading accounts and the scheme doesnt provide dispute resolution options for 
victims of alleged fraud. So, given there would be no reasonable prospect of a 
chargeback succeeding in these circumstances, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly 
by not pursuing a chargeback for the credit card transactions.
There is also the potential of Mr and Mrs P making a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, NatWest has said that it hasnt had a chance to 
consider such a claim, and I cant see that Mr and Mrs P have raised one before 
bringing their complaint to this service either, meaning it wouldnt be fair for me to 
pre-determine the claim before NatWest has had a chance to look into it. As such, Mr 
and Mrs P should get in contact with NatWest to raise a Section 75 claim should they 
wish to pursue one and provide the necessary evidence it has requested. If they are 
unhappy with the outcome NatWest reach on that claim, they can then refer the 
matter back to this service as a separate complaint. 
Faster PaymentsIn terms of the faster payments made to Mr and Mrs Ps Luno and Binance wallets, I 
dont think those that were made between 22 January 2021 and 16 April 2021 were 
unusual enough in themselves to have warranted an intervention by NatWest. 
I appreciate that one of these payments of £20,800 was particularly large compared 
to the others made to Luno. But I can see that a larger faster payment of £22,091.14 
had already been made from Mr and Mrs Ps account within 12 months prior. I 
acknowledge that it may have only been for a credit balance refund, but it 
nonetheless builds a picture of what is to be considered as usual account activity, 
particularly when it comes to faster payments being made from the account. 
However, by the time Mr and Mrs P came to make the payment of £35,311.37 on 
26 April 2021, this marked a significant increase in spending and ought reasonably to 
have been considered as out of character by NatWest. 
NatWest has highlighted a payment of over £50,000 being made from Mr and 
Mrs Ps account on 3 March 2020 to demonstrate why a payment for around £35,000 
wouldnt have appeared unusual. However, this payment took place over a year 
before they made the payment of £35,311.37 on 26 April 2021. There had been no 
similar payments, or anything larger than £22,000 being paid in one transaction 
within 12 months (which is what I consider to be a fair and reasonable timeframe in 
order to consider what would be considered as usual account activity). So, given the 
payment of 3 March 2020 falls outside of this timeframe, I dont consider it would be 
fair to take it into account for the purposes of considering whether £35,311.37 was 
out of character for Mr and Mrs P.
In any event, aside from the unusually large value this payment represented, there 
was also the fact that payments being made to the same crypto provider (Luno) were 
becoming larger and larger. Escalating payments to the same payee can often be 
indicative of someone falling victim to a scam. So, when it got to the point of another 
increase in spending to the crypto merchant  for an amount that was also out of 
character for the account  Im satisfied there were then enough risk factors to trigger 
an intervention by NatWest. So, I think the bank ought to have intervened and 
questioned Mr and Mrs P about this payment.
If NatWest had carried out reasonable due diligence by contacting Mr and Mrs P and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to suggest they wouldnt have 
been forthcoming about what they were doing. If it had given a warning, I believe that 
Mr and Mrs P would have made further enquiries into the merchant, including looking 
into whether or not they were regulated in the UK or abroad. 
Mr and Mrs P would have discovered that they were not, as there was an FCA 
warning published about S by the time they made the suspicious payment on 26 April 
2021. They could have also discovered the other various warnings about the broker 
posted on review websites where others had stated the investment was a scam. 
Given Mr and Mrs P had listened when their son warned them they were being 
scammed, I have no reason to doubt they wouldnt have listened to any warning 
given by their trusted bank. In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from 
NatWest would probably have exposed Ss false pretences, thereby preventing 
further losses. As a result, I intend directing NatWest to refund the payments Mr and 
Mrs P lost to the scam from 26 April 2021 onwards. 
Contributory negligenceTheres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions. And I have duly considered whether Mr and Mrs P should bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence, which Im satisfied they should in 
this case.
First, I dont consider Mr and Mrs P carried out sufficient due diligence to ensure that 
the broker was genuine, as it doesnt appear that they consulted any independent 
sources. I note from their previous transactions that they had also invested before. 
So, being experienced investors, I think its reasonable to expect a certain level of 
research and due diligence to have been completed before they decided to part with 
their money. If they had carried out such research, they would have likely come 
across the various warnings and reviews from others who had been scammed by S 
at the time. They could have also discovered that the broker was not regulated by the 
FCA and would have therefore been much less likely to invest their money.
Mr and Mrs P also said they were seeing returns of around £200,000 within just two 
months, which eventually rose to an accumulated profit of £1.5million. Such returns 
ought to have appeared far too good to be true, particularly to experienced investors, 
as rarely will any legitimate investment platform be able to achieve this in such a 
short space of time.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ps lack of due diligence and failure to 
question what they were being promised contributed to their loss, such that they 
should share responsibility with NatWest, and Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Recovery
Ive also thought about whether NatWest could have done more to attempt to recover 
the faster payments after Mr and Mrs P reported the fraud. However, we know that 
the money was quickly moved out of their Luno account to the scammer after it had 
been transferred, so Im not persuaded there was anything further NatWest could 
have done to recover the funds in these circumstances.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Natwest accepted my provisional 
findings and agreed to pay redress as directed. It said it would be deducting a credit for 
£13,885.67 that Mr and Mrs P received from Luno on 4 June 2021. It also asked for 
clarification on whether a £15,710 payment Mr and Mrs P received from Coinbase in July 
2021 was related to the scam or not.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with my provisional decision. They submit that NatWest should 
have intervened earlier on in the scam and didnt think it was fair that they were being held 
liable for 50% of their losses. Mr and Mrs P clarified that any payment received from 
Coinbase would not have been linked to the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ps submissions in response to my provisional 
findings. But having done so, It hasnt changed the conclusions Ive outlined above. 
Mr and Mrs P said they do not understand why their past transactions are relevant. Simply 
put, NatWest would only be expected to fairly and reasonably intervene on payments that appear out of character, unusual or suspicious. And the only way the bank can reasonably 
make that determination is by considering transactions in light of what is to be considered as 
normal for the account in question. 
This is why its important to consider the scam transactions in light of Mr and Mrs Ps 
previous account history, to see what can reasonably be considered as out of character. And 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im still of the opinion that the transactions 
prior to the £35,311.37 on 26 April 2021 would not have appeared overly unusual, meaning 
there would have been no expectation on NatWest to intervene any earlier than this point. 
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy that they are being held jointly liable with NatWest for their 
loss as a result of their own contributory negligence. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to them, but its important to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable to 
both parties in this complaint. I outlined the reasons why I felt it would be fair for Mr and 
Mrs P to share liability in this case, and they havent provided any further comments or 
evidence that would change my conclusions in this regard. 
Finally, NatWest asked for clarification on certain credits received into Mr and Mrs Ps 
account. In terms of the credit of £13,885.67 received from Luno, Mr and Mrs P have not 
disputed that this was linked to the scam, so I consider it would be fair and reasonable for 
NatWest to deduct this from the overall loss it is repaying. 
However, Mr and Mrs P have said that the £15,710 payment received from Coinbase is not 
linked to the scam. Ive also not seen any evidence to suggest that it is linked. And given it 
was received after the scam was revealed in June 2021 and came from a crypto account 
that was not used as part of the scam, Im not satisfied it would be fair for NatWest to deduct 
this from their overall compensation either, as it has not shown it was likely received from 
funds paid out as part of the scam.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to:
Refund the payments Mr and Mrs P made as part of the scam, from the £35,311.37 
payment made on 26 April 2021 onwards, less any credits received from the scammer, 
less a deduction of 50% in recognition of Mr and Mrs Ps own contributory negligence 
towards their loss. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman