DRN-4402477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Starling Bank Limited issued them with a warning message 
about the way their account was being used.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a joint personal current account with Starling. In January 2023, Starling 
sent them a message saying that their account usage fell outside the intended use of the 
account. Unhappy about the message, they complained to Starling. 
Starling ultimately said that its personal current accounts are intended for typical day-to-day 
use - for example, salary, shopping and leisure expenditure. But its review of Mr and Mrs Cs 
account had highlighted that their account was being used to move money to and from other 
accounts to take advantage of rewards other banks were offering. It said this type of activity 
fell outside the intended day-to-day use of the account. And the high volume of transfers 
triggered the security features it had in place, hence, the message it sent. Starling asked   
Mr and Mrs C to cease the type of transactions they had been undertaking.       
Unhappy with the response Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. He said the personal 
account terms and conditions say that there are payment limits. So, he didnt think Starling 
had done anything wrong when it issued Mr and Mrs C an account usage warning. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this outcome. They said the investigator hadnt considered a 
question it had raised with Starling, and that they had changed the way they used the 
account to accommodate Starlings warnings. They also said the investigator had relied on 
terms and conditions which were issued after the events in this complaint happened.
The investigator didnt think this altered the outcome he had reached. He also supplied       
Mr and Mrs C with the applicable account terms and conditions which he had relied on. As 
this didnt resolve the matter, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr and Mrs C have raised other complaints about Starling which have been dealt with 
separately. For clarity this decision solely relates to account usage warning sent to              
Mr and Mrs C. I make no findings on any other complaints Mr and Mrs C have raised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. I can see that 
Mr and Mrs C feel strongly about their complaint as they dont feel they have done anything 
wrong. And I appreciate they will be disappointed. So, Ill explain why - focusing on the key 
issues relevant to the decision I have reached. 
I can see that there was some confusion as to why Mr and Mrs C account usage was 
flagged as an issue in the first instance. Mr and Mrs C were told it related to the payee 
display name used on the transaction. But Ive seen that Starling explained in its formal 
response to the complaint that it was the type and number of the transactions being made 
that had triggered the account warning. 
In regard to this, the terms and conditions relevant to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint say:
Individual Payment Transaction Limit
Payments from your Personal Current Account are subject to limits and restrictions we set 
from time to time, such as to the maximum amounts you can send on: (i) an individual 
payment basis; and/or (ii) a daily or other periodic basis. 
I find that the terms and conditions are clear in that Mr and Mrs Cs account had some 
restrictions in place regarding the amount and number of transactions that could be made. 
Ive considered the account usage on Mr and Mrs Cs account by reviewing their account 
statements. Having done so, Im satisfied there was a significant number of transactions 
being made on a very regular basis. And its not in dispute that the transactions going in and 
out of the account were undertaken to benefit from rewards held on accounts with other 
banks. So, Im also satisfied that the transactions dont reflect the normal day-to-day usage 
of a personal current account. In light of this, Im not persuaded that that Starling acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it issued a warning about the account usage to Mr and Mrs C.
I can see that there was a reduction in the number of transactions on the account in         
March 2023. But this was after Mr and Mrs C complained, the subsequent reduced account 
activity doesnt impact on the outcome of the complaint about the warning Mr and Mrs C 
received relating to transactions undertaken before Mr and Mrs C raised their complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C find the limitations of the account unsuitable for their 
requirements. But its not for this service to tell a bank how to run its business. I can decide if 
Starling treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly. But for the reasons given above, I dont find that it 
did. So, Im not going to ask Starling to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman