DRN-3952234
The complaint
Mr B complains that Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-Op Bank) have failed to refund over 
£8,900 he says he lost to an investment scam in August 2021.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr B says he fell victim to a cryptocurrency trading scam with Skybet8.com in August 2021. 
He says he was told about the site by a person he was speaking to on a dating app, and that 
he also knew of friends who were making money from the site.
Mr B made several payments to cryptocurrency platforms that totalled over £8,900, where 
the funds were then sent from his crypto wallet to Skybet8.com. He says his account showed 
that he was making large profits and was even able to make up to five withdrawals, so he 
didnt have any concerns that the merchant was not legitimate. 
However, Mr B later requested to withdraw a large amount of money, at which point he was 
asked to pay an upfront tax bill of £18,000. It was at this point that he suspected he was 
being scammed, and the merchant stopped replying to him.
Co-Op Bank refused to refund the money Mr B had lost as it said he had authorised the 
payments. Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the payments 
would have appeared particularly unusual and was satisfied that the checks Co-Op did carry 
out were proportionate in light of the value of the payments. Mr B disagreed, so the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to the crypto 
platforms using his Co-Op Bank debit card, where his funds were then subsequently 
transferred on to Skybet8.com. The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by Co-Op bank, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has 
a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Its not exactly clear that Mr B has fallen victim to a scam here. Mr B said he thought that 
Skybet8.com was a cryptocurrency investment platform, but later realised it to be a 
gambling site (which he said he wouldnt have used if he had realised). There do not 
appear to be any warnings about this merchant or website online. And theres also no 
evidence to show in what circumstances Mr B transferred the cryptocurrency to Skybet8, 
and whether this was for the purposes of gambling rather than a fraudulent investment. 
So, I cant be sure that Mr B hasnt just lost his money through placing some high-risk 
bets, for example, as opposed to losing it to an investment scam, as theres no evidence 
to suggest this. 
Indeed, Mr Bs testimony seems to suggest that he was gambling, as he has mentioned 
having to select various numbers and spinning a wheel which would produce a return 
depending on where the spin landed. But I accept that there are certain aspects of it that 
do bear the common hallmarks of a scam, such as being encouraged to make payments 
by someone on a dating app, being asked to pay a large amount of tax on a withdrawal, 
and the fact that the website has now disappeared. So, I have proceeded on the basis 
that Mr B has been scammed here. But even accepting this as the case, I dont think Co-
Op Bank would be liable to refund the money he has lost in any event. Ill explain why.
Co-Op Bank has said that its fraud system was triggered on two occasions for payments 
made on 2 September 2021 and 28 September 2021. On both occasions, it asked Mr B 
to verify the payments as genuine, which he did. However, Im satisfied there were other 
indications of suspicious activity prior to this, such as three separate payments being 
made to Kraken on 25 August 2021 within the same hour, amounting to almost £4,500. 
So, I accept that Co-Op Bank ought reasonably to have spoken to Mr B sooner, and in 
more detail than it did when it spoke to him in September 2021, as its questioning did not 
go far enough.
Mr B says that he would have told Co-Op bank about Skybet8.com and that it could have 
used its experience to identify it as a scam. However, Im not persuaded there would 
have been enough for Co-Op to reach such a conclusion, or that Mr B would have 
necessarily been forthcoming with what he was doing. I say this because Mr B was 
called by a different bank in relation to the same scam, where it asked him whether he 
was dealing with anyone else regarding his investment in cryptocurrency, or whether 
anyone had approached him saying they could help him make money or told him where 
to invest. Mr B didnt tell the bank that anyone else was involved and said he had set 
everything up himself, despite having been introduced to Skybet8.com by a person he 
met on a dating app, who suggested which crypto platforms he should use.
It isnt clear why Mr B wasnt upfront with the other bank in explaining how he was 
introduced to the website and whether anyone else was assisting him. But seeing as he 
didnt disclose this information, I dont think its likely he wouldve been forthcoming with 
all the details had Co-Op Bank asked him further questions either. Therefore, I dont 
think any further intervention the bank couldve made wouldve got to the bottom of what 
was unfolding.
Even if Co-Op Bank ought to have suspected it was a scam and provided Mr B with a 
warning, Im not persuaded it wouldve stopped him from making the payments or have 
ultimately prevented his loss. There were no warnings or bad reviews about 
Skybet8.com online. Indeed, one of the only reviews visible now is from a scam detector 
website that says the site is actually trustworthy. Mr B had also been able to make five 
withdrawals from his trading account, which he said made him think it was legitimate. He also said he had friends who were receiving large returns through the site, and so says 
he felt there was proof from people he trusted that it worked and was legitimate. Mr B 
also said that he worked in IT and, prior to making the payments, he carried out technical 
checks into the website, where he didnt find anything of concern. 
So, even if Mr B was upfront about what he was doing  and were Co-Op Bank to have 
provided him with a scam warning  Im not persuaded that any further checks he 
couldve carried out would have led him to believe that he was likely being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Co-Op Bank could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr B used his 
debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback 
claim in these circumstances because the company he paid had provided the services 
as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Co-Op Bank 
were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr B either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Co-Op Bank liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman