DRN-1236470
The complaint
Mr K complains about information held on his credit file by Experian Limited. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr K discovered that Experian had incorrectly added a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) to his credit file which should have been recorded against his father 
instead. This affected his ability to obtain a loan from his bank to buy a car, and meant he 
had to take taxis to and from work for several months.
The CCJ had been registered in November 2018. Mr K says he approached his bank several 
times for a loan and was refused at the initial stage (before a full application) because of 
adverse information at the Credit Reference Agencies. In August 2019, he signed up to 
Experians service and paid a £14.99 fee to check his credit file, only to discover the CCJ.
Experian looked into Mr Ks complaint and removed the CCJ from his credit file. They offered 
him £150 for the inconvenience and refunded the payment hed made to check his credit file.
Mr K was unhappy with Experians response. He said as a result of the mistake, hed paid 
between £650 and £700 per month in taxi fares to get to and from work for 10 months, rather 
than being able to buy a car.
Mr K referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She said that as 
no formal application for a loan was made, she couldnt be certain a loan was declined solely 
because of the CCJ. She said there were no formal searches made by Mr Ks bank. In view 
of this, she didnt recommend Experian to compensate Mr K any further.
Experian accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr K didnt. He said he felt Experian had 
caused him a financial loss. As there was no agreement, Mr Ks complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr K had with our investigator when he raised the complaint with us 
and considered all the evidence he and Experian have provided. Its clear that a CCJ was 
registered on Mr Ks credit file in November 2018, and this will have caused him difficulty in 
obtaining a loan.
I can see that Mr K visited his bank to try to apply for a loan in March 2019, but they told him 
an application wouldnt be successful because of information held by the Credit Reference 
Agencies. His bank have explained that when they receive an enquiry about a loan, they use 
a toolkit to gather information which then provides an indication of whether an application is 
likely to succeed. Theyve provided a copy of the response produced by the toolkit following 
Mr Ks enquiry in March 2019.
The toolkit response  and the banks subsequent covering letter  confirm that Mr K would 
be declined due to adverse information at the Credit Reference Agencies. It goes on to tell 
the staff member to make the consumer aware of how to contact the credit reference 
agencies to obtain details of their credit file.
When he spoke to our investigator to refer his complaint to us, Mr K gave us lots of 
background which was useful. He told us that hed believed he had a good credit rating as 
hed checked it in around September 2018. He says he went to the branch to apply for a 
loan in the first week of November 2018 after hed started a new job a week or so earlier. 
The application didnt proceed for the same reasons as set out in March 2019. He says he 
made four or five attempts at getting a loan but was given the same reasons and each time 
the bank suggested he return a couple of months later to try again. He says is wasnt until 
August 2019 that he checked his credit file again and became aware of the CCJ.
On 17 August 2019, he complained to Experian about the CCJ. They removed it from his 
credit file within a few days. They offered him the refund and £150 for the inconvenience Ive 
mentioned earlier, but also said if he could provide evidence from his bank that the loan was 
declined as a result of this CCJ, theyd look at it again. Mr K says he knew his bank wouldnt 
provide such direct confirmation as that, because he used to work in the industry.
All businesses make errors from time to time and, where theres a foreseeable loss or 
significant trouble or upset caused to a consumer as a result, its right that they compensate 
the consumer appropriately. But equally, wed expect consumers to do what they can to 
mitigate any potential losses they might incur when theyre aware  or ought to have been 
aware  a mistake has been made.
Mr K has said he was spending £650- £700 a month on taxi fares for 10 months from when 
he was first turned down for the loan in November 2018, to when he found out about the 
CCJ the following August. Hes said he feels Experian should compensate him by paying 
half of this expense.
But hes told us that he knew how to check his credit file  hed done so in September 2018 
and seen he had a good credit rating. And he tells us he was aware from as early as 
November 2018 that something on his credit file was preventing him from being able to apply 
for a loan. In view of that, Id have expected him to check his file again at that stage, 
especially as he was spending so much on taxi fares.
I note that Experian resolved the issue of the CCJ within a few days of being made aware of 
the error. Had Mr K checked his credit file earlier and brought the mistake to Experians 
attention, I think its more likely than not theyd have resolved things just as swiftly. I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to recommend Experian should pay towards the money 
Mr K spent on taxis as he ought to have realised there was a problem sooner.
But I do think Experian made a mistake and should compensate him for the upset that 
mistake will have caused. I think the £150 they have offered  together with a refund of the 
cost of their service  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont make any further 
award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman