DRN-3030204
The complaint
Mr S complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited adding an exclusion 
to his pet insurance policy and about their handling of a claim under that policy.
What happened
Mr S had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Red Sands, which offered lifetime cover. 
He made a claim in April 2021 after his dog had treatment for a problem with her eye. 
Red Sands initially declined the claim, saying the claim was for treatment for a condition 
which was pre-existing  i.e. had been evident before Mr S bought the policy. They said the 
dog had had treatment for problems with the same eye back in May 2019, before Mr S 
bought the policy in April 2020.
Red Sands reviewed their decision after Mr Ss vet provided information to show that the 
earlier treatment wasnt for the same condition. The treatment in May 2019 had been for an 
eye ulcer, whereas the treatment in 2021 was for dry eye / conjunctivitis.
Red Sands paid the claim, but also advised Mr S they were now applying an exclusion to the 
policy to say that Mr S couldnt make any further claims relating to any issues with his dogs 
eyes or sight.
Mr S made a complaint to Red Sands about this. He thought hed been mis-sold lifetime 
cover (which costs more than a standard pet insurance policy) if Red Sands were allowed to 
apply exclusions as soon as a pet suffered a medical issue for the first time. He was also 
unhappy theyd applied two excesses to his April 2021 claim for the treatment his dog 
received. 
Red Sands didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong.
Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants Red Sands to 
refund him the difference between premiums for his lifetime cover policy (over the full 
period he had it) and a standard pet insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr S  and Im very sorry his dog has experienced these problems 
with her eye - but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S insured the dog with Red Sands from 2015. And he had lifetime cover. He chose not 
to renew that policy in April 2020 because he wasnt happy with an increase in the annual 
premium.
Mr S sought a new policy through a comparison website. And he found he could get a new 
lifetime cover policy with Red Sands, with an annual premium lower than the one hed been 
offered at renewal. So, he bought that new policy in April 2020. And he renewed it in April 
2021.
The terms and conditions for Red Sands lifetime cover policy include a policy summary, 
which is worth quoting in full here. It says:
A lifetime policy is the most comprehensive policy type we can offer. These policies 
will look to cover costs incurred from accidents, injuries and conditions and could 
cover on-going illnesses over a number of years, as long as you keep renewing your 
policy. It has an annual limit for each condition which refreshes upon annual renewal. 
This means a long-term illness like arthritis, diabetes or prostate disease will be 
covered year after year as long as you keep your policy live. We will not apply any 
exclusions to your policy regarding illnesses or conditions that you have claimed for 
since taking out the policy with us; so long as you keep renewing your policy you will 
continue to be covered.
It goes on to say:
If you cancel your lifetime policy, you may find exclusions applied to any new policy 
you might purchase. This means you need to weigh up the ongoing advantages of a 
lifetime policy against potential changes to your premium over the life of your pet.
So, in contrast to many less expensive pet insurance policies, Red Sands lifetime cover 
will cover on-going illnesses or conditions which first arise at any time from the point the 
policy is first taken out, rather than apply exclusions after the first episode of any on-going 
illness or condition.
They may, however, apply exclusions to a policy to ensure they arent required to cover 
illnesses or conditions which pre-date the first purchase of the policy. This stands to reason 
 in general, you cant expect to insure against an event after its already occurred. 
If Mr S had renewed his policy annually from 2015, when he first took it out, then Red Sands 
would have been obliged to cover any on-going issue with the dogs eyes  and not apply 
any exclusions to the policy. Thats the advantage of their lifetime cover offering.
As things stand, however, he chose not to renew and to start a new policy afresh. That was 
his choice  and hes explained it was a seemingly economically sensible one. However, 
Mr S would or should have been aware of the policy summary information set out above (he 
received the policy documents when he bought the policy). 
This makes it absolutely clear what gamble a customer is making when they choose not to 
renew and buy a new policy afresh. In effect, Red Sands are reserving the right to exclude 
cover for conditions which pre-date the inception of the policy.
Mr Ss view is that the condition treated in May 2019 is not the same condition as the one 
treated in 2021, even though it affects the same part of his dogs body (the eyes). He points 
out that Red Sands have accepted that when they changed their mind and paid his claim.
Thats a fair point. And I think Red Sands acted reasonably and fairly when they took into 
account the information provided by Mr Ss vet and decided to cover the claim.
However, we have been provided with Red Sands underwriting criteria. Its clear from that 
document that Red Sands would apply a policy exclusion  from the outset - for any treatment costs relating to a pets eyes or eyesight if the pet had previously experienced an 
eye ulcer or any eye or eyelid trauma. 
I dont need to get into any debate about the proper definition of eye or eyelid trauma  
although I can see an argument for suggesting Mr Ss dog had suffered those problems in 
May 2019  because the vets notes from May 2019 clearly state that the dog had an eye 
ulcer.
So, Im satisfied that if Red Sands had known about the May 2019 treatment when Mr S took 
out the policy, they would have insisted on applying an exclusion for any treatment relating 
to the dogs eyes or eyesight.
Thats not inherently unfair. Its fairly standard practice in pet insurance. And it is perfectly 
reasonable for Red Sands to offer the cover they want to offer, bearing in mind their 
estimation of the risks involved. If customers dont like that offering, they can seek insurance 
elsewhere.
This brings me to the key point in my decision on this case. When Mr S bought the policy in 
April 2020 - and when he renewed it in April 2021- he was sent a series of documents by 
Red Sands setting out the terms and conditions of the policy and the basis on which it was 
offered.
Mr S bought the policy on-line and was required to tick a box saying he understood and 
agreed to the terms and conditions. 
The policy schedule sent to Mr S at this point included a declaration, which effectively set out 
and confirmed what Mr S was telling Red Sands when he bought the policy. This included a 
series of questions, the first of which was:
Have you ever taken [the pet] to the vet for anything other than routine 
vaccinations?
Under this set of five or six short questions, the declaration said:
If the answer is yes to any of the above questions, please contact us on [telephone 
number] . Red Sands reserve the right not to accept cover.
Mr S had taken his dog to the vet before  in May 2019 and on other occasions  for 
reasons other than vaccination. Im satisfied that if Mr S had called Red Sands about that, as 
he was asked to do, they would have told him that an exclusion would be applied to his 
policy for any treatment costs relating to his dogs eyes or eyesight. That would be required 
by Red Sands underwriting criteria, as described above. Mr S could then have made a 
decision about whether he wanted to continue with his purchase of the policy.
On that basis, I cant see that it was unfair or unreasonable for Red Sands to apply the 
exclusion when they found out about the dogs medical history. And if Mr S didnt fully 
understand what he was buying when he bought the lifetime cover thats because he didnt 
trigger a conversation with Red Sands when he bought the policy, as they asked him to.
If Mr S wanted to press the point that theres a degree of inconsistency in paying the claim, 
but then applying a retrospective exclusion, I can see his argument. But I think Red Sands 
have taken a pragmatic and very reasonable decision to pay the claim. And they are 
perfectly justified  for the reasons Ive set out  in applying the exclusion. Finally, I can see that Red Sands applied two excess fees to Mr Ss claim. Im satisfied they 
were entitled to do so under the terms of the policy. Its clear from the policy documents that 
they will apply an excess to claims for treatment in each policy year. 
They received a claim for costs for treatment between 25 March 2021 and 13 April 2021. 
And another for costs of treatment between 22 April 2021 and 6 May 2021. Mr S renewed 
his policy on 17 April 2021, between the two periods of treatment. So, the first treatment fell 
in his policy year 2020/21, while the second fell in his policy year 2021/22.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman