DRN-3646436
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the repairs that esure Insurance Limited made to her car following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to make good her subsequent 
losses. 
What happened
Mrs Ts car was stolen and later recovered after a police chase. esure then took the car for 
bodywork repairs and it was returned to Mrs T. Ten months later, Mrs T said there were 
problems with the car, and she found that the engine needed to be replaced.
esure instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car. He confirmed the damage to 
the cars engine, but he couldnt say when it had started. A dealers garage had completed 
an MOT and service on the car but didnt identify any engine issues. It told esure the 
problem was due to mechanical failure. But Mrs T thought it had been caused by the theft 
and police chase. 
Mrs T said she wouldnt have had the car back if she had been told about the damage to it. 
She said shed lost £7,000 because of this and she wanted esure to compensate her for this 
and other losses. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that, on 
balance, the evidence supported that the damage was due to wear and tear. So he didnt 
think esure needed to do anything further. 
Mrs T replied that the car hadnt been examined by an engineer after it had been recovered 
and she felt that esure hadnt told her the true extent of the damage caused. She said the 
dealers garage and esures independent engineer hadnt fully examined the car. She said 
the garage that bought the cars salvage from her had said the engine damage wasnt due to 
wear and tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the circumstances of the theft. I can understand that this must have 
been a traumatic experience for Mrs T and her family. I can see that Mrs T is adamant that 
the engine damage that has come to light was most likely caused by the theft.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that when Mrs T first reported her concern to esure, its engineer didnt think it was 
related to the claim. He questioned the dealers garage that had charge of the car and it said 
the fault was due to mechanical failure. But esure arranged an independent engineer to 
inspect the car. We think thats a fair and reasonable approach where there is a dispute 
about damage. 
The independent engineers report stated:
"Due to the time elapsed and mileage covered since the original theft repair in my opinion 
this failure is unlikely to be as a result of vehicle being stolen. Therefore not related to the 
claim on notice".
He also stated that the original repairs were carried out 11 months ago and the car had 
covered a further 4015 miles and passed an MOT without any advisories relating to the 
engine or hydrocarbons. He said there was no external engine damage. And he thought the 
engine fault was due to the failure of cylinder 3. 
The independent engineer later confirmed that this fault was a common problem with this 
type of engine at even lower mileages. He didnt think the theft circumstances changed his 
view. 
Mrs T said the independent engineer left her a voice message saying that stripping the 
engine would determine the cause of the damage. And I can see that he also told esure that 
it may consider this. But his report was adamant that the engine damage wasnt related to 
the claim.  
Mrs T provided a report from her own garage which stated that in the engineers view the 
damage to the cylinder had been caused by the theft. esure had some concerns about the 
validity of this report. But our Investigator looked into these and Im satisfied that he 
established that the report was valid. 
esure then considered this report and decided that it was outweighed by those provided by 
the dealers garage and the independent engineer. It took into account the length of time 
since the theft, the number of miles driven, and the satisfactory service and MOT. So Im 
satisfied that esure considered all the evidence available and so justified its decision to not 
take responsibility for the engine repairs. 
Mrs T said that if shed been told about all the damage to the car, then she wouldnt have 
agreed to go ahead with the repairs. But esure said that this choice wasnt provided by her 
policy as its terms and conditions state that it would decide how to settle the claim. So it 
wouldnt have given Mrs T all the details of the damage before asking if she wanted the car 
repaired.
I can see under What is covered the policy states
All loss or damage to your car caused by fire, lightning, explosion, theft or attempted theft.
We will:
 pay to repair the damage; or 
 replace whats been lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
 pay to settle your claim.
And then
Things you need to know 
 Well decide which method we use to settle your claimSo, even though Mrs T recalls that she was given the option of repairing her car, Im satisfied 
this choice isnt provided by her policy. And so I cant say that esure prejudiced Mrs Ts 
position by not discussing the repairs with her or that it needs to pay her any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman