DRN-3784342
The complaint
Mr S complains that the Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will not refund money he 
says he lost as a result of an investment scam.
Mr S is represented by Refundee in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr S says he has fallen victim to an investment scam.  He says he made several 
payments  via a cryptocurrency exchange  to a company he believed to be a legitimate 
trading firm.  These payments, according to Mr S, were made between March and April 2022 
 a combination of personal funds and loans  and amounted to approximately £96,000.  Mr 
S says he later discovered he had been scammed when he attempted to withdraw funds 
from the trading platform.
Mr S contacted Halifax about the above asking it to refund the money he had lost.  As this 
did not happen, Mr S raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr S did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Halifax accepts that some of Mr Ss transactions were out-of-character and so it intervened 
and spoke to him before releasing those payments.  Mr S argues that these interventions 
were not sufficient.  For example, he says during the telephone calls concerned with Halifax, 
it neither asked him probing questions, nor open questions with the intention of exposing the 
alleged scam.  Having considered the call recordings myself, I am satisfied that Halifax 
provided Mr S with robust and impactful scam warnings regarding the payments that had 
flagged on its systems.  I am also satisfied that during the calls, Mr S allayed Halifaxs 
concerns about the transactions.  I will set out why I have reached these conclusions below:
During the calls, Halifax clearly warned Mr S about the risks involved with 
cryptocurrency trading and the consequences of being scammed.  For example, it 
delineated to him the risks of being defrauded  even when making payments to 
cryptocurrency exchanges.
Halifax specifically asked Mr S whether he was being assisted in making the 
payments.  Mr S answered this question in the negative.  However, in his complaint 
submissions, Mr S suggests that there was someone from the alleged scam 
company who was assisting him with making payments.  This is not something he 
shared with Halifax at the time  therefore it was not able to probe him further on this 
point.
Halifax questioned Mr S about any social media involvement, which he responded to 
in the negative.  However, in Mr Ss complaint submissions, he states that it was an 
interview he saw on a social media platform which led him to the alleged scammers 
website.  Again, this is something Mr S did not share with Halifax at the time.
Mr S did not respond to some of Halifaxs questions as if they were closed  on many 
occasions he provided lengthy explanations as to why he was making the payments 
and why he believed them to be safe.
Mr S confirmed to Halifax that he had been investing in cryptocurrency since at least 
June 2021 and had no concerns.
Taking all the above factors together, I am persuaded that Halifax provided Mr S with 
sufficient scam warnings during its calls with him; and that its level of questioning was 
sufficient.  I am also persuaded that Mr S was not entirely open with Halifax, and in doing so, 
allayed its concerns about the payments which had flagged.  It follows that I am satisfied that 
Halifax did its best to balance its duty to carry out Mr Ss payment instructions  with its duty 
to protect him from financial harm.  I also do not consider that there is any other reason why 
Halifax should refund the transactions in question.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman