DRN-1736761
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she opened a store credit card in July 2004.  
What happened
Mrs J took out her store card and the PPI policy in July 2004 whilst she was in store. Mrs J 
has now complained that the PPI was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld her complaint. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with AXAs response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the PPI was mis-sold and recommended Mrs Js 
complaint should be upheld.
AXA didnt agree with that recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mrs J took out her credit card and the PPI in store. AXA has provided a copy of the 
application form that Mrs J completed. 
I can see there is a section on the form with the heading Protecting Your Account. This 
indicates that the box should be signed only if the Account Cover is required and also 
indicates a premium will be charged to the account for the cover.
Whilst this wording suggests the PPI is optional, I note that a cross has been put against the 
section, the same as the cross that is next to the signature line at the end of the agreement. 
This would indicate the form was filled in by the customer assistant for Mrs J, which the 
writing also suggests, and that crosses were put on the form where Mrs J needed to sign. 
I do not know what was said to Mrs J by the customer assistant and if Mrs J was specifically 
asked if she wanted the PPI cover. It is possible that Mrs J said she wanted the card account 
and when the personal details were completed by the store assistant it was indicated to 
Mrs J she should sign where the crosses had been placed without specific confirmation the 
PPI was required. So, I think there is a little doubt, in the circumstances of this particular 
case, as to whether it was made fully clear the PPI was optional. I also cannot be certain what, if any, additional information was provided at the time in store 
to Mrs J about the PPI. I think it unlikely the store assistant would have provided any detail 
about it.
Looking at the account application form and the information provided on that, I am not 
persuaded that Mrs J was given adequate information, in a clear way, about the policy to 
make an informed decision about whether it was suitable for her.
At the very top of the application form there are two sections. One deals with basic eligibility 
criteria relating to age, residence in the UK and employment  although in the way this is set 
out these would appear to relate to the whole account agreement, not just the PPI. Next to 
this at the top of the form is section headed Remember to Add Account Cover to your 
Application. Underneath this heading are four bullet points which lists various products and 
the last bullet point states the cost is just 1.5p for every £100 on your monthly outstanding 
balance.
It isnt totally clear from this information exactly which products are covered for the 1.5p per 
£100 charge and so Im not sure this made it totally clear to Mrs J how much she would be 
paying only for the PPI. No detail of the benefits, terms and conditions are provided, merely 
a reference to the customer copy of the Credit Agreement.
I dont think Mrs J was made aware clearly of the costs and benefits of the policy. This was 
quite an expensive policy when considering the cost against the benefit that was possible to 
be claimed. 
Also, Mrs J had good employment benefits including six months full pay and six months half 
pay. AXA has questioned the fact Mrs J cannot remember exactly which employer she was 
working for at the time of her application and has indicated it was one of two. AXA says this 
makes the the benefits she would have been entitled to are unclear. 
But Mrs J was employed by a public body and the conditions of employment are constant 
across this area, providing the same for every employer irrespective of which authority the 
employment was with. Therefore, she would have received the same good employment 
benefits whichever of the employers she was with at the time. 
Taking her employment benefits into account and the costs of the policy, plus the nature of 
this credit account which was for a store card with a limited credit limit, I think if the full costs 
and benefits had been made clear to Mrs J she would not have taken out this PPI policy.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think clarity about the optionality of the policy 
may be an issue here. But in any event, if better information about the PPI costs and 
benefits had been provided, I think this would have put Mrs J off taking out the cover, so I 
think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaints that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
So AXA needs to put Mrs J as far as possible in the position she would be in if she had not 
been sold any PPI.
Mrs J borrowed extra on her card in the months when the PPI premium was added to her 
account, and she paid interest on those premiums if the account wasnt cleared. Mrs J needs 
to get back all the extra shes paid for the PPI. So AXA should work out what Mrs J actually paid for the cost of the PPI, including any 
interest or charges caused by the premiums and it must pay back to Mrs J everything she 
paid for the PPI policy. 
AXA must also work out some compensatory interest for the time Mrs J didnt have use of 
the money that was paid for the PPI. This is worked out on each amount paid for the PPI 
from the date Mrs J paid the PPI cost until the date she gets it back. The rate of interest is 
8% a year simple.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and AXA must give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
to Mrs J by AXA France IARD. Compensation should be calculated and paid to Mrs J as I 
have indicated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman