DRN-3465864
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as R complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan from The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
One of Rs directors, Miss M, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
R applied to NatWest for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. Miss M submitted three 
applications on the companys behalf  on 6, 8 and 10 May  but the bank declined each of 
them.
Miss M queried the basis of the banks decision but it declined to explain why it hadnt 
approved Rs applications. Miss M sought to appeal, which led her to raise a complaint in 
June and escalate matters through her MP. 
NatWest then invited R to submit a new application, in light of changes to its processes. A 
further application was made on 21 September 2020, which the bank approved. R 
successfully drew down a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 shortly thereafter.
NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong in declining Rs first three applications, but 
accepted that there had been a delay in reviewing the matter in light of Miss Ms concerns. 
So it offered to pay R compensation of £250 for the inconvenience caused along with £100 
towards the companys costs.
Miss M remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. She said that delays in obtaining 
the loan had caused the company a financial loss, because:
R had to arrange payment holidays on its other borrowing, which would cost it more 
in the long run.
R had been using an invoice financing facility, which it remained reliant on until it 
received the Bounce Back Loan funds  meaning it incurred additional interest and 
charges.
R had taken some of its vehicles off the road to reduce its costs and delays in getting 
the loan had a knock-on delay in getting them back on the road. This, in turn, had led 
to more work being needed to make the vehicles roadworthy again, at a higher cost.
Miss M also said that the matter had taken a toll on her mental and physical health, spending 
a lot of time and effort on following up with RBS during an already difficult time. 
One of our investigators reviewed Rs complaint. She said, in summary, that:
Rs first three applications had failed checks that RBS was required to carry out 
under the rules of the Loan Scheme. Looking at the information on which NatWest 
had based its decision to decline the original application, she thought it had acted 
reasonably. NatWest subsequently changed its decision following a change in how it 
reviewed Bounce Back Loan applications. 
While she didnt think RBS had made an error in how it had assessed Rs 
applications, she thought it had taken too long to review things in light of Miss Ms 
appeal. Miss M had raised a complaint on 18 June, but it was only after the MPs 
involvement in July that RBS had taken any action  and even then, it wasnt until 
late September that R obtained the loan. She thought the loan ought reasonably to 
have been arranged by 1 August.
R had incurred additional costs through its invoice financing arrangement. The 
company had settled this on 9 October 2020 after receiving the Bounce Back Loan, 
so she thought it wouldve done this sooner had things gone as they should have. 
She recommended that RBS reimburse R for the charges and interest it had incurred 
from 1 August. 
She didnt think RBS needed to pay any compensation in respect of the payment 
holidays that R had arranged on its two other finance agreements. This was because 
one had been arranged prior to the Bounce Back Loan application and she couldnt 
see that the other had led to any additional charges or interest being applied. She 
didnt think that the banks delays in reviewing things had affected the vehicle repair 
costs, as that work had all been arranged and paid for in June 2020  and she didnt 
think the Bounce Back Loan was ever going to have been arranged by then.
She thought RBS should increase its offer of compensation for the inconvenience R 
had been caused in having to pursue the matter by a further £200 to £450, along with 
the £100 it had offered towards the companys costs.
RBS accepted our investigators view, but Miss M didnt think the compensation went far 
enough. In particular, she thought the reimbursement of the invoice financing interest and 
charges should be backdated further and that the company would suffer a financial loss from 
its payment holidays on other arrangements. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, RBS was required to undertake certain 
checks on Rs application, including Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering and anti-
fraud checks. Rs first three applications, made in May, failed those checks  so they were 
declined. Having reviewed the information on which these decisions were based, I think they 
were reasonable.
I can appreciate why Miss M would find it difficult to accept that RBSs initial stance was 
correct or fair, given that it later reversed its position and granted the loan (and as the bank 
hasnt explained the basis of its decisions, theres nothing to differentiate them). Im afraid I 
cant share much more detail than RBS has already disclosed on this, particularly as information about how banks reach such decisions is subject to some legitimate 
confidentiality. 
What I can say, though, is that NatWest changed its position after a manual review  which it 
completed in line with amendments to its processes. Rs first three applications were 
automatically declined on the basis of information obtained during what was a largely 
automated process. There was nothing wrong with the bank handling the applications in this 
way  lenders had to process applications swiftly, and set up the mechanisms to do so at 
pace following the Loan Schemes launch. RBS assessed these first three applications in 
line with the standard procedure it had in place at the time, shortly after the Scheme was 
introduced  with which I find no fault.
By the time RBS reviewed Miss Ms appeal, the bank had changed its process and 
introduced a manual review  allowing for intervention to overturn the automated process. 
Through that route, it had more latitude than was applied through its automated process 
under which the first applications were assessed. This review led it to a different decision. 
For the reasons above, that doesnt render RBSs initial decisions wrong or unfair. 
There was, then, no error in how RBS handled Rs first three applications. It follows that 
there was always going to be a delay in R obtaining its Bounce Back Loan. The company 
was either going to have to apply elsewhere, or reapply to RBS. Understandably, Miss M 
sought to understand the basis of the banks decision before taking any further action  but 
RBS declined to share any further information about this, which I think was reasonable for 
the reasons Ive already given. 
I dont think there is a specific point at which RBS shouldve encouraged Miss M to reapply 
or otherwise review its original decision on Rs applications. It did so in light of the complaint 
that Miss M raised, but there was then a delay in the bank taking any action. Miss M raised 
her concerns in mid-June 2020  but RBS only invited a further application (in light of the 
changes to its processes) in mid-September, some three months later.
It was always going to take RBS a little time to review what had happened with Rs 
application in order to identify whether the subsequent changes in its processes had an 
impact (and therefore whether it would be appropriate for the company to apply again). Im 
also conscious of the fact that RBS was dealing with a large volume of applications and 
related queries at the time, along with the broader impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Also, 
RBS had up to eight weeks to respond to the complaint under the rules that apply to 
regulated financial businesses.
Taking all of that into account, like our investigator I think it is reasonable to say that RBS 
ought reasonably to have remedied the situation in the manner it did by 1 August 2020, 
rather than 21 September. So its right that RBS compensates R for the impact this delay 
had.
To that end, Miss M has identified four ways in which R was affected: having to maintain an 
invoice financing facility for longer than necessary, having to arrange payment holidays on 
two other arrangements, incurring greater repair costs while unable to get its vehicles back 
on the road without funding, and the distress and inconvenience that she and the company 
were caused.
On the first of these, RBS has already agreed to reimburse R for the additional interest and 
charges that it incurred on its invoice financing arrangement from 1 August 2020, which was 
only settled in 9 October 2020 because R was without the loan. I think this is fair. R used the 
Bounce Back Loan to settle the invoice financing arrangement shortly after receiving the 
funds from RBS. So it wouldve been able to do this much sooner  on or around 1 August  had things gone as they should have. I know Miss M thinks the reimbursement should cover 
a longer period, but for the reasons given above I think it is fair to say that R ought only to 
have received the loan on 1 August  so that it is the point from which it incurred additional 
losses.
On the payment holidays, I dont think there is any loss to R that flows from the errors on 
RBSs part. The payment holiday arranged on one of its other finance agreements was 
agreed in April 2020  prior to the Bounce Back Loan applications, and most importantly 
prior to the errors made by NatWest and before 1 August, when I think it shouldve gotten 
the loan. So I think R was always going to enter into that payment holiday and incur any 
losses, irrespective of what subsequently occurred in respect of its Bounce Back Loan 
application. 
R entered into a short-term payment arrangement on one of its other arrangements in July 
2020  again, before I think it shouldve gotten the loan. Arguably, had some progress been 
made on the Bounce Back Loan application it wouldnt have entered into this concessionary 
arrangement. But either way, Ive not seen that the variation to its payment schedule actually 
led to the company incurring a loss. R hasnt shown us that it will pay any more interest and 
the letter from its finance provider specifically states that no additional fees were levied.
On the costs of repairing its vehicles, Ive not seen that the amounts R paid in this respect 
were higher than they wouldve been but for the delays on RBSs part. R took the vehicles 
off the road prior to the Bounce Back Loan application and the repair work was instructed, 
completed and paid for prior to 1 August 2020. So even if R had obtained the loan when I 
think it should have, it would still have incurred these costs. And so theres no basis on 
which I could fairly require RBS to compensate the company for these.
Lastly, I have considered what Miss M has told us of the impact that this matter has had on 
her and her company. In this respect, I should clarify that I am unable to award 
compensation for any trouble or upset that she has suffered personally  as it is only R that 
is the eligible complainant under our rules, and therefore it is only to the company that I can 
award compensation. I have no doubt that it was a particularly stressful period for her and 
Im sorry to read of the toll that things took on her personally, but Im afraid I am unable to 
make any award in that respect. 
It is, therefore, a question of deciding fair compensation for the inconvenience that R was 
caused by the delays in RBS reviewing its appeal and providing the loan. The delays meant 
that Miss M, in her capacity as Rs director, had to take time out of running the business to 
chase the bank up on a number of occasions and escalate the matter through us and her 
MP in view of the lack of progress. And R had to make alternative arrangements to preserve 
its cashflow while without the loan. NatWest has now agreed to pay compensation of £450 
as well as £100 towards the costs that the company wouldve incurred in pursuing matters, 
and having taken everything into account I think that is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to:
Reimburse R for the interest and charges it incurred on its invoice financing 
agreement as a result of its usage from 1 August 2020 until 9 October 2020; and
Pay R £550, comprising £450 compensation for the inconvenience it was caused and 
£100 towards its costs in dealing with this matter.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman