DRN-3096096
The complaint
Mr V complaints that Wise Payments Limited trading as Wise wont refund him the money he 
lost when he sent it to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2020 Mr V was sadly the victim 
of a safe account scam. He was tricked into sending €13,850 from his own account to an 
account held with Wise. 
As soon as Mr V realised hed likely been the victim of a scam he informed both his own 
bank and Wise. Ultimately Wise returned around €4,500 to Mr V which theyd recovered 
from their accountholder. Mr V complained, he would like to be fully reimbursed. He thinks 
Wise have failed in their obligations in relation to the account they allowed to be opened and 
operated. Wise maintained their position and the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, 
she thought Wise had acted fairly and didnt think they reasonably could have done more to 
prevent Mr Vs loss. As he still disagrees, Mr V has asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. It is clear from his submissions how important this complaint is to Mr V and 
the impact being the victim of a scam has had and continues to have on him. So I 
understand my outcome will be very disappointing. 
Mr V has also made some detailed submissions in relation to his complaint. Ive read and 
considered all of these, but I wont be responding in similar detail. Ill primarily keep my 
findings to the reasons for my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Im satisfied that Wise correctly followed their processes when opening the account that later 
received Mr Vs funds. There isnt anything that I think reasonably could have alerted them at 
that time that the account they were opening would later be used in connection with a scam. 
So, I dont think Wise could have prevented any of Mr Vs loss in that way.
Ive also reviewed the activity on the Wise account both prior to and after Mr Vs payment 
arriving in the account. There isnt anything that I think reasonably would have stood out as 
unusual or suspicious where I think Wise ought to have intervened. So again, I dont think 
there were any failings in this respect which could have prevented Mr Vs loss. 
Once notified that Mr Vs payment had been made as a result of a scam, Im satisfied Wise 
promptly took the appropriate action. I can understand why Mr V is disappointed that only 
around a third of the money he had sent was recovered and returned. But I dont think Wise 
reasonably could have recovered any more in these circumstances. 
Ive also considered the service Wise provided when dealing with Mr V. Mr V said in 
response to our Investigators view that he was told by Wise that all his money had been 
secured and would be returned. Ive not found further evidence to support that Mr V was told 
this. And even if he had been, I couldnt fairly ask Wise to refund the full sum, as having 
looked at the detailed evidence regarding the times payments left the account in question, 
Wise were never going to be in a position to return all the money. For completeness, I also 
dont think that Mr V was provided with poor service by Wise in his dealings with them. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr V was the victim of a scam. I accept he was scammed 
and has lost a significant amount of money. But that doesnt automatically entitle him to a full 
refund. It would only be fair for me to tell Wise to provide further redress if I think they failed 
in such a way that caused or contributed to Mr Vs loss or hindered its recovery. And as I 
dont think they did, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman