DRN-3342030
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Wise Payments Limited wont refund money he transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
On 17 December 2021, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give 
both parties the chance to provide further information in advance of my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of this decision and Ive copied it below:
what happened
Mr G was the victim of an investment scam. He watched some promotional videos on a 
popular online video platform and then, after filling out some personal details, he was 
contacted by someone claiming to be able to help him invest money. They showed him a 
website and trading platform  which he says seemed to mimic the movements of the 
actual stock market
On 8 February 2020, after several failed attempts to transfer money directly to the 
fraudster from his account at another financial business, which Ill call N, he created an 
electronic money account with Wise. Then, on 10 February 2020 Mr G transferred £95,000 
from his account at N to his new Wise account. The same day he created two international 
payments, one for £47,600 and another for £47,400. The two payments were paid to an 
account in another country the next day.
Mr G appeared to be making a healthy profit and was encouraged to invest more and 
more. He made further payments from other bank accounts until mid-May 2020 which 
totalled around £18,000.
Mr G had introduced several friends to the scheme but when his sister spoke to the 
fraudster, she wasnt convinced by their explanation of how the apparent profits were 
being made. After hearing her concerns, Mr G tried to withdraw his money from the trading 
account but was unable to  seemingly confirming his sisters suspicions that Mr G had 
been the victim of fraud. Mr G first reported the scam to N and it contacted Wise on 12 
June 2020. This action appears to have led to Mr Gs Wise account being closed.
Mr G complained to Wise. It said, as per its terms and conditions, it wasnt liable for Mr 
Gs loss and it was appropriate to close his account after having been contacted by N 
about a possible scam. And, though it had attempted to retrieve Mr Gs money, it had not 
heard anything back from the bank which received it. It also apologised for its 
correspondence not being clearer when Mr G contacted it about the scam.
Unhappy with the response, Mr G referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators upheld his complaint. They thought Wise ought to have questioned Mr G 
about two very large payments he was making so soon after the account had been 
opened. In the investigators view, such a conversation would have likely revealed the 
scam and prevented the loss.
Wise disagreed. In summary, it said:
-Its due diligence procedures were in line with current standards
-It disputes that the amount of a transaction is necessarily an indicator 
that a customer is more likely to be the victim of a scam
-Mr Gs bank would be in a better position to identify any unusual transactions, 
given that it can review his previous account history
-Warning customers about scams will not necessarily lead to a scam being 
prevented
-Mr Gs use of Wise to make two large international payments is fairly typical of 
how customers use its services
-Theres no obligation on it to provide advice to customers
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Mr G was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. He authorised the payments and under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Wise should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing 
of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which payment service providers are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive thought carefully about Wises obligations in this case, particularly given that Mr G 
was a new customer without previous activity to compare his actions against.
I accept that Mr Gs use of Wises services was broadly in line with what it would expect 
 a customer opening and funding an account specifically to make international 
payments. So, the fact Mr G deposited money into his account just a day or two after opening it and then sent that money on internationally is unlikely to have stood out as 
being remarkable, suspicious or unusual activity to Wise. Unlike his current account 
provider, Wise had no account history to compare the transactions against.
Wise says that it was able to satisfy itself that the money Mr G transferred to the 
fraudsters had genuinely come from a bank account in his own name, so while it might 
not have known detailed information about the origins of the money, it didnt have any 
concerns about where it had come from. In any case, its not disputed that the source of 
the funds was a genuine account held in Mr Gs name. While Mr G finds it surprising that 
Wise didnt require photographic identification from him at the time, even if they had 
required this, its difficult to see how such a requirement would have prevented the scam. 
Theres no reason to think Mr G wouldnt have provided this if asked.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that Wise would have known who controlled the account 
that the funds were being sent to or that it had previously been informed that the account 
was involved in fraud. I dont think there are any checks it could have reasonably carried 
out on the account given that it was held at another bank, in another country. So, Im 
satisfied Wise was not on notice that the recipient might be involved in fraudulent activity.
That means Wise would have seen a pattern of activity which would be broadly in line 
with how it would expect its customers to use its services, it would have been satisfied 
that the money Mr G had deposited into his account had come from an account held in 
his own name and wouldnt have had any concerns about the destination of the funds. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded Wise knew, or ought to have known, that Mr G 
was at risk of financial harm from fraud when making these payments.
I do accept that the amount of each payment was substantial and there was a risk, as 
with any other payment, that they were being made as a result of fraud. But, without any 
specific indication that Mr G was at risk, then, at most, I could only reasonably expect 
Wise to provide some general warnings or information about scams and not, as the 
investigator suggested, a conversation with Mr G prior to releasing the payments.
Wises submissions suggest they did not provide any warnings  verbal or written to Mr 
G. I understand it is trialling warnings for certain customers, but not more widely. While 
Wise questions the efficacy of such warnings, providing a warning or information about 
common fraud and scams to customers does not seem to be a particularly onerous 
requirement and is in line with good industry practice.
But, having considered the matter carefully, even if Wise had provided general warnings 
or information about common scams during the payment journey (which is all I could 
expect of them in the circumstances), I dont think this would have made a difference to 
whether Mr G went ahead with the payments.
The scam had a high degree of sophistication and its one that Mr G was clearly very 
taken in by. He was prepared to overlook negative reviews of the investment company 
and invest significant amounts of money with them. He clearly found the fraudulent 
website, trading platform and conversations with the fraudsters very convincing. So, 
considering that, its very hard to see how a general warning or information about common 
scams would dissuade him from proceeding with the payments.
That means that, while Ive found that Wise could have done more here, Im not 
persuaded that it would have made a difference to Mr Gs position. So, while I know this 
will be very
disappointing for Mr G, I dont think Wise has acted unfairly by declining to refund 
the payments.Ive seen that Wise wasnt very clear when they communicated with Mr G after he 
reported the scam but Im satisfied it apologised for this, which I think is sufficient in the 
circumstances. And, as N contacted Wise before Mr G did and informed them that Mr 
Gs Wise account had been involved in a scam, Wises action to close his account does 
not seem unreasonable.
Finally, Ive seen evidence that Wise did attempt to retrieve Mr Gs money but I cant 
see that it ever received a response to its requests. Given that it was several months 
before Mr G reported the scam, even if the receiving bank had responded, it seems very 
unlikely that any of Mr Gs money would have remained. So, I think Wise have taken 
reasonable steps to try and recover the money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
Wise did not respond to my provisional decision, but Mr G didnt agree with it. Ive 
summarised below what I think are the main points hes made, but Id like to assure him that 
Ive carefully considered every point hes raised  even if I havent specifically addressed it.
- He was vulnerable due to being over the age of 60 and living through the pandemic 
while being in a high-risk category, but this hasnt been taken into account
- Wise havent adhered to FCA requirements or their own terms and conditions by 
failing to properly identify and verify him when he opened the account
- Wise also failed in its obligation to find out the purpose and intended nature of his 
relationship with it when he opened the account 
- Had they done the above, that would have been an opportunity to identify him as a 
potentially vulnerable customer and to have asked questions about what he was 
doing
- Contrary to the provisional decision, Wise do take into account the amount of the 
transaction when deciding whether to stop it  their terms state they may require 
more information for larger transactions
- Wise took over a month to contact the receiving bank and this delay might have 
made a difference 
- Wises own terms say they are required to carry out due diligence on all parties to a 
transaction  including the recipient. But this didnt happen
- He isnt concerned about the administrative issues he faced and feels this is just a 
way to deflect from the central point of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered Mr Gs points carefully, Im afraid that my decision remains unchanged. 
Ill explain why.
The focus of Mr Gs response is to argue that Wise failed in its obligations to verify him as a 
new customer and, if it had carried out sufficient checks, it is at least a possibility that the 
scam would have come to light. 
Regardless of whether Wises identity checks were sufficient at the time, the fact remains 
that Mr G was who he said he was, and the source of his funds was entirely legitimate
I think its important not to conflate Wises obligations to properly identify Mr G as a customer 
with their obligation to protect him from financial harm from fraud. These are somewhat 
separate obligations and the latter only arises where a financial business has reasonable 
grounds to believe their customer is at risk from fraud. 
Mr G understandably argues that Wise wouldnt know whether he was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud because they didnt make any enquiries  either about the payments or his 
circumstances. But the only way in which Wise could have known whether Mr G was at risk 
of fraud was to ask him questions that went significantly beyond establishing his identity, the 
source of the funds and how he intended to use the account. I cant fairly say that Wise had 
such an obligation in the particular circumstances of this case. Had it carried out further 
checks those could, and likely would, have been carried out electronically  so it doesnt 
follow that an opportunity to question Mr G would have necessarily ever arisen. 
Neither do I think Mr Gs circumstances that Wise actually were, or ought to have been, 
aware of should have led them to make further enquiries. Had Wise carried out more 
detailed identity checks  I dont think this would have revealed any vulnerability. Mr Gs age 
would have likely already been known to Wise  as I understand a date of birth is required 
on account opening. And, in any case, Mr Gs age does not, in itself, indicate he is 
vulnerable to fraud. Neither have I seen or heard anything in his correspondence with our 
service (which I think has been measured and thoughtful), Wise or the other financial 
businesses involved in his complaint that would indicate that he is particularly vulnerable to 
scams.
While Mr G suggests the delay that asking for further identity documents might have caused 
may have led him to reconsider  I cant agree as the scam continued for months after the 
payments were made. So, even if I were to accept Wise could have done more to verify Mr 
G, I cant reasonably say this would have led to the scam being revealed. 
Mr G has pointed to term 9.1 of Wises customer agreement as evidence that it did have 
obligations in relation to the recipient of the funds. 9.1 said at the time:
We are required by law to carry out all necessary security and customer due diligence 
checks on you (including any parties involved in your transaction for example, your recipient) 
in order to provide any Services to you.
While not explicit, this term likely reflects Wises legal obligations not to facilitate payments to 
recipients which are known to be involved in fraudulent or illegal activity or are sanctioned. 
The way the receiving account was being used would be unknown to Wise  so the only 
checks they could have done would be using information already known or available to 
them. Again, this is not an investigative duty to find out information from Mr G about the 
recipient.Wises terms do state they might require more information for transactions over a certain 
amount, but they are explicit in saying this is to establish how the funds were obtained, not 
where they are going. Again, even if I accepted Wise ought to have done this  then theres 
every reason to think Mr G would have provided the required information, given that the 
source of his funds was legitimate.
I agree there was a delay between Wise being informed of the scam and it being reported to 
the receiving bank. But, I think the key point here is that the receiving bank did not respond. 
So, while I think Wise could have acted sooner, I cant agree this would have made a 
difference to the recovery of money which, in my experience, is very unlikely when a bank in 
another country is involved and the scam is not reported until several months later. 
Mr G says the bank he paid is the same as he paid using another of his accounts and that it 
had a London office which Wise could have contacted. In fact, I understand the Wise 
payments went to a different bank, one that does not appear to have a U.K. presence. 
I know this is intensely disappointing for Mr G and the loss of his funds has clearly had a 
significant impact on him. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Wise acted unfairly 
by allowing the payments Mr G made to leave his account unchallenged as I dont think 
there were sufficient grounds for Wise to believe that he was at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman