DRN-2475574
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Genistar Limited sold a life assurance and a serious illness 
cover policy to him.
What happened
Mr A and his wife met a representative of Genistar at a social event. A fact-finding survey 
was completed, and Mr A was sold a life assurance and a serious illness cover policy. 
Later, Mr A joined Genistar himself. After hed completed his training, he raised his complaint 
about how hed been sold his policies. Genistar looked into the matter, but didnt uphold the 
complaint. So Mr A brought it to us.
Our investigator felt it was unusual for the policies to be sold to Mr A at a social event. But 
he also noted Mr A would have been able to halt the process if hed been unhappy with 
something the representative was doing. Our investigator also felt Mr As responses to the 
survey showed he had a need for the cover hed taken out. And our investigator noted that 
Mr A hadnt later cancelled his policy  despite having now received training from Genistar to 
sell them himself  suggesting he was happy with what hed been sold. 
Mr A asked for his complaint to be looked at again. So its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he brought his complaint to us, Mr A said he felt his confidentiality and dignity hadnt 
been reasonably looked after by Genistars representative when she sold him his policies. 
He felt it had been wrong to interview him in the presence of other people at the social event.
Genistar confirmed that the interview and sale took place at the social event in April 2019. 
But they said Mr A had been interviewed in a quieter area, where only he, his wife, the 
representative, and the owner of the property were present. 
I cant say just from those details whether more needed to be done to ensure Mr As 
information was being treated with suitable confidentiality. But the representatives record 
from the evening seems to show Mr A was willing to provide his information, despite the 
informal setting. And I think its notable that he didnt complain about it until some months 
later. That suggests to me that, at the time, Mr A was happy with how hed been interviewed. 
While I can appreciate Mr A now feels things should have been done differently, I dont think 
its fair to expect Genistar to have known hed later feel that way. I find it was reasonable for 
the representative to have discussed life and critical illness cover with Mr A at the social 
event, given his responses could have led them to think he was happy with that at the time. 
Mr As complaint also touched on policies sold to his wife. But as those arent his policies, 
Im not going to deal with them in this decision. 
Mr As also said he sent a text message to Genistars representative asking for the policies 
to be cancelled shortly after the sale. But Genistar remember this differently. They say Mr A 
called to discuss some of the policy terms. They say at the end of the call, Mr A was positive 
about the policies hed been sold. 
Ive asked Mr A for copies of the text messages hes referred to, but these havent been 
provided. And, as our investigator noted, Mr As continuing to have the policies suggests 
hes happy to still have them. That seems more consistent with the account that Genistar 
have given of Mr As contact, after the sales meeting. 
As such, I find it more likely than not that Genistar didnt receive a request to cancel the 
policies. And, as a result of that, I find it reasonable that the policies werent cancelled. 
Finally, Mr As complained that the sale of the products ignored his financial circumstances. 
But Ive seen that Genistars record of the interview with Mr A shows they did look at his full 
financial circumstances at the time. And I can see he was then given a choice of products, to 
allow him to balance the level of cover with the price he was willing to pay. 
The responses Mr A gave during his interview, and during our investigation, tell me he 
wanted some form of cover, to provide for his family if he was no longer able to. And again, 
Mr A is now more familiar with the products, having been trained to sell them for Genistar. 
Hes continued to have the policies he was sold, rather than cancelling them and changing to 
a different product. That tells me he more likely than not considers the ones he was sold to 
be suitable for him. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman