DRN-3546274
The complaint
Mr D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt uphold his 
refund claim about the accommodation he received when on holiday abroad. 
What happened
Mr D booked a holiday using his AESEL credit card. He booked superior accommodation 
which he says had an in-room seating area which was important to him. When he arrived, 
the room didnt have a seating area and when he complained he says he was provided with 
a dirty mattress and following this a single bed that wasnt suitable for comfortable sitting. He 
also said the hotel was infested with wasps.
Mr D raised a complaint with the holiday provider but as this wasnt resolved to his 
satisfaction, he raised a refund claim with AESEL under the criteria that the holiday wasnt 
as described.
AESEL says that on 10 September 2020 it received a Goods/Service not as described 
claim from Mr D. The disputed amount was suspended, and correspondence was sent to 
Mr D. It made a chargeback contact with the merchant to try to get a resolution. It says that 
the claim was rejected because Mr D didnt provide evidence to show the service provided 
wasnt as described and instead it appeared to be an issue with the quality of service which 
wasnt covered by the chargeback scheme. Because of this the credit was reversed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that AESEL had done anything 
wrong by finding it hadnt enough evidence to say the service provided wasnt as described. 
He also explained that as well as a chargeback claim, Mr D could have raised a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). He said that the required debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship was in place for a claim, but he didnt think that had the claim been 
raised this would have been successful. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr D was upset as he had booked accommodation for his holiday which 
wasnt provided in line with his expectations. This complaint is about AESEL and so my 
decision is about whether AESEL acted fairly and reasonably in the actions it took in 
response to Mr Ds refund request.
When Mr D raised his refund request, AESEL raised a chargeback claim with the merchant. 
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme. When Mr D raised his chargeback claim 
AESEL suspended the amount of the claim. I find this reasonable. It explained that the 
chargeback scheme didnt cover issues to do with the quality of the service provided and 
confirmed the claim was being considered based on the goods/service not being as 
described.
AESEL contacted the merchant about the claim and this was defended. I have considered 
the information provided and I do not find that I can say AESEL was wrong not to take the 
claim further. I say this because Mr D booked a holiday with flights and accommodation for a 
certain period of time and this was provided. Mr D booked a superior garden room which 
was described as:
Superior Garden view Private Balcony Sleeps 3, Bed Type: Double(s) or single(s) and sofa
bed, Superior Gardenview Private Balcony feature one king-size or twin beds. They have a
private balcony offering garden views. Balcony/Lanai/Terrace, Bathtub/shower combination,
Private bathroom, Satellite television, Air conditioning, Minibar, Refrigerator, Television
Based on the evidence I have seen I cannot say that this wasnt what was provided. 
Mr D has specifically complained about the lack of a seating area. The photograph he has 
provided from the advertised room shows a chair and seating area. In the photographs Mr D 
has provided of his room there is a chair and table and the hotel has said Mr D didnt request 
a further chair or change to the chair present. The issue relates to the sofa/sofa bed. I can 
see that in response to Mr Ds complaints at the time of his stay a sofa bed was provided. 
While I note Mr Ds comment about this not being a comfortable seating area and appreciate 
given the restrictions in place at the time the communal seating areas werent available for 
use, I do not find I can say that the holiday provided wasnt as described. 
As our investigator explained, AESEL could have raised claim under section 75 of the CCA 
on Mr Ds behalf. Under this legislation, the borrower under a credit agreement (in this case 
Mr D) has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
I have considered the information available to Mr D at the time of booking and the holiday he 
was provided with and I do not think in this case I would have enough to say that there was a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. I say this because Mr D was provided with the 
holiday he booked, including flights and accommodation. As far as the evidence shows it 
appears the room had the features included in the description and there was an area for 
seating with a chair shown in Mr Ds photographs. Therefore, based on what I have seen I 
dont think it likely that a claim under section 75 of the CCA would have been successful. 
I understand why Mr D was upset as he doesnt feel the accommodation he was provided 
with was as it should have been and I note his comment about other issues such as the 
wasp infestation, however in this case I do not find I have enough to say that AESEL is 
required to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman