DRN-3124623
The complaint
 Miss P has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc continued charging her excessive amounts for 
her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty, and then closed her account when she did 
not want it to.
What happened
 Miss P opened her account with Lloyds in 2016. An overdraft facility of £3,000 was added to 
the account in January 2017. In late 2019 Miss P contacted Lloyds to say that the overdraft 
charges being applied to her account were causing her financial difficulties. Lloyds offered 
help with her account by agreeing a repayment plan. In 2020, when this plan failed and a 
new one could not be agreed, Lloyds took the steps required to close Miss Ps account so it 
could be moved to its recoveries department. Miss P was unhappy with how Lloyds had 
handled things and raised a complaint. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint, and as Miss P 
was dissatisfied, she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Miss P was experiencing financial difficulty when it renewed her 
overdraft facility in January 2018 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and 
charges from this point onwards. Lloyds responded to say that it did not think Miss Ps 
account activity was indicative of financial difficulty and so it did not agree to refund the 
charges applied from January 2018. Lloyds also explained why it felt it was fair to close 
Miss Ps account in 2020 but thought it would have been unreasonable to do this earlier. Our 
adjudicator remained of the view that Lloyds should have stepped in to help Miss P with her 
account in 2018, and so the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators view that 
Lloyds acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 
it renewed Miss Ps overdraft in January 2018. By this point, I think it ought to have been 
clear that Miss P was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
I say this because, by this time, Miss P was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time  nearly a year. Lloydss 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. I think that Miss Ps overdraft usage should have 
prompted Lloyds to have realised that she wasnt using her overdraft as intended and that 
she might be at risk of financial difficulties. So I dont think Lloyds should have continued 
offering the overdraft on the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Miss Ps overdraft usage 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I note what Lloyds has said about the way Miss Ps account was managed at that time. 
Lloyds has specifically commented on what it considers to be non-essential spending. I 
acknowledge that there were various overseas transactions on Miss Ps account at that time, 
as well as payments for flights, and to online retailers. But I dont think that this spending 
negates the fact that Miss Ps account had not seen a credit balance for a long time. It was 
clear that she was using her overdraft for all her day to day spending, and not for unforeseen 
emergencies as an overdraft is intended to be used. And I think that should have triggered 
Lloyds, when it reviewed her overdraft limit in January 2018, to look a bit deeper into what 
was happening with Miss Ps account. Lloyds doesnt appear to have questioned how her 
account was being used at the time, and I think it should have.
I also note what Miss P and Lloyds have said about Miss Ps account being closed. Miss P 
thinks it was unfair for Lloyds to close her account, but I dont agree. I think that when there 
are clear signs that an account is in difficulty, and the bank can see that its unlikely the 
account holder will be able to repay their overdraft within a reasonable time period, closing 
the account so charges and fees can be stopped and an affordable repayment plan agreed 
is a reasonable step to take. And Lloyds did ensure it gave Miss P notice of what it intended 
to do. So I dont think Lloyds was wrong to close Miss Ps account, I actually think this step 
should have been taken much earlier. 
Because Lloyds didnt take action in 2018, Miss P ended up paying additional interest, fees 
and charges on her overdraft and this ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in 
trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt treat Miss P fairly and she lost out because of 
what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in January 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss P to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ps 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
As Lloyds has sold an outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt purchaser, it 
will need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary 
adjustments, or pay Miss P an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman