DRN-3390851
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESL) failed to obtain a 
chargeback in respect of a faulty door.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I recognise that Mr O says the door is faulty and the supplier should replace or repair it or 
AESL should refund him. I must make it clear my remit is limited to considering the actions of 
AESL. I have no authority over the supplier. In order for me to uphold this complaint I have to 
establish that AESL did something wrong.
It may help if I explain how the chargeback system works. Chargeback is a process that is 
provided by the Card Scheme. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if 
there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback.  Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. The card scheme 
operator checks the nature of the problem against the possible chargeback reasons to see 
whether the claim will be successful. If the bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they 
don't have to raise a chargeback.
In this case AESL raised a chargeback and the merchant responded to say that the door 
was satisfactory. AESLs role is limited and it took the view that there was no basis for 
pursuing the chargeback further. I understand the retailer initially offered to replace the door, 
but after consulting the manufacturer it concluded the door was satisfactory. 
AESL is not obliged to pursue the matter beyond the initial chargeback request and given 
the retailers strong defence of the charge I do not consider there was sufficient chance of a 
successful chargeback. AESL sits in the middle and it did as requested by Mr O. Regrettably 
this did not result in the outcome Mr O desired, but that is not the fault of AESL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman