DRN-2821327
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aquacard) incorrectly processed a chargeback
request.
 
What happened
Mr H ordered some goods online in July 2020 but didnt collect them as he no longer needed
them. He waited for a refund from the merchant but didnt receive one. He contacted
Aquacard and asked it to raise a chargeback request.
Aquacard raised the request but this was defended by the merchant. Aquacard didnt take
the matter any further and Mr H remained responsible for the cost of the goods.
Mr H pursued the matter directly with the merchant and received a refund in October 2020.
Mr H complained to Aquacard because he didnt think it had processed the chargeback
request correctly. He said if it had done so it was unlikely that the request wouldve been
challenged by the merchant.
Aquacard accepted that when it wrote to Mr H to tell him the chargeback had been
defended, the information in its letter may have caused confusion. It apologised for this, but
it didnt offer to do anything else. Mr H was unhappy with Aquacards response and referred
the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that
Aquacard had followed the correct process for claiming the chargeback, although she
accepted it hadnt communicated with Mr H as clearly as it couldve done. She considered
Aquacards apology was reasonable, and in the circumstances she wasnt persuaded it
needed to do anything else.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 10 May 2021. Details of my provisional 
findings are set out below.
Mr H had said throughout his complaint that he didnt collect the goods hed ordered 
and waited for a refund from the merchant. Id seen a copy of a message he sent to 
the merchant that said:
Can you process a refund for a C&C order [number] that I havent collected and no 
longer want. Thanks
Mr H contacted Aquacard when he didnt receive the refund, and in the declaration 
he completed the details of the disputed transaction were described as Refund not 
received. This was also noted by Aquacard.
Id seen the chargeback form that Aquacard completed. As far as I could tell, it 
seemed Aquacard may have used the wrong code to identify the reason for the 
chargeback.
In addition, Aquacards final response suggested the chargeback request was made 
on the basis that Mr H hadnt received the goods. This wasnt correct  he hadnt 
received the refund he was entitled to. So this also suggested to me that the basis on 
which Aquacard made the chargeback request was incorrect.
As Mr H had made Aquacard aware he was waiting for a refund because hed never
collected the goods, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for Aquacard to query the
information received when the challenge to the chargeback request was made.
On balance, if Aquacard had made the correct chargeback request I thought it was 
likely that Mr H wouldve received the refund from the merchant. I understood that a 
refund was eventually made, but only after Mr H pursued the merchant directly.
In the circumstances, I thought it was reasonable for Aquacard to pay compensation 
to Mr H for the inconvenience caused by its error. I thought £100 was a fair amount in 
the circumstances.
Mr H said he didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional findings.
Aquacard didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said it had used the correct code for 
the chargeback, and that the code meant cardholder dispute. It said this covered multiple 
sub blocks including goods not received, goods not as described and refund not received.
It also said that when a refund not received claim is raised the customer must provide 
evidence to show a refund has been offered. If this was in the merchants terms then the 
customer must provide the terms where it states that if he does not collect the goods they 
will be returned and a refund will be issued. Aquacard said Mr H hadnt provided this 
evidence so the chargeback was invalid.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive noted what Aquacard has said in response to my provisional decision, and Ive also 
looked at the letter it sent to Mr H when hed contacted it about raising the chargeback. The 
letter said:
Please ensure that you read this document carefully and complete all the fields which are 
appropriate to your dispute. You are also required to supply evidence which supports your 
claim. Failure to provide evidence or detail in the required fields may invalidate your claim 
and any credits applied to your account could be reversed.
Mr H supplied evidence of his order and explained that he hadnt collected it. He said:Under their [the merchants] T&C it should have been returned to stock after 21 days and a 
refund issued.
On the 28th August 2020 I contacted [merchant] to ask where my refund was (Page 4)
I had no reply from [merchant], so need to raise A Chargeback for the amount due to product 
not received.
I can see that the merchants order confirmation says We will hold all collection items for 21 
days.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr H contacted the merchant after 21 days to ask 
for a refund as he hadnt collected the items.
Keeping in mind what Aquacard has said in response to my provisional decision, it seems it 
required very specific evidence from Mr H to make a successful chargeback claim. But Im 
not persuaded this wouldve been obvious to Mr H from Aquacards letter. There was nothing 
in the letter to suggest that he would need to provide the merchants specific terms and 
conditions for the refund he was trying to claim. 
From what Ive seen, I consider Mr H supplied as much evidence as he could in the 
circumstances. If this wasnt enough for Aquacards purposes, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to have told him he would need to supply the merchants specific terms and 
conditions in connection with refunds.  
I accept that the code used for the chargeback request may have covered a number of 
different scenarios. But Im still mindful of the discrepancies between Mr Hs reason for the 
chargeback request (no refund received) and the reasons behind the challenge to it. 
Aquacards final response also seems to accept there was some confusion about the basis 
on which the chargeback request was rejected.
With all of these points in mind, I still think it wouldve been reasonable for Aquacard to have 
challenged the reason for the rejected request. Had it done so, on balance I think its likely 
that Mr Hs request wouldve been successful.
In addition, if Aquacard had clarified the evidence it needed from Mr H, I consider this 
wouldve also improved his chances of making a successful chargeback request. 
So Im satisfied that Aquacard should pay compensation to Mr H for the inconvenience 
caused.
Putting things rightAquacard should pay £100 to Mr H. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard to pay 
£100 to Mr H.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman