DRN-3739513
The complaint
A company which Ill call D complains that Santander UK Plc treated them unfairly by 
recalling their Bounce Back Loan and issuing a formal demand for immediate repayment.
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by their director, Mr U.
What happened
D held a business account with Santander. 
Mr U says that D was approached by a third-party in 2020 who said they would apply for a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) on Ds behalf. The third-party said that they were working with 
banks to help companies apply, so Mr U says he eventually agreed and the BBL application 
was submitted for a £45,000 loan. 
Mr U says that he became concerned about the application when the third-party then told 
him that there was a commission fee, payable upfront for assisting D completing the 
application. Mr U says that he then contacted Santander about the application. He says the 
bank asked if D still wanted the loan, and if they did, it would send them the paperwork 
directly to sign and accept. Mr U says that believing the application to be genuine, he signed 
and agreed to the terms. The loan was drawn down in July 2020. 
In November 2021, Santander requested evidence of the turnover D had declared, to show 
that they were eligible for the BBL amount they had received. Mr U wouldnt disclose the 
information as he wasnt confident the caller was genuine. Shortly after, Santander restricted 
Ds business account. 
So Mr U called Santander and the bank told him it didnt think D was eligible for the BBL they 
had received. Santander also said that Ds account had been blocked and they had 60 days 
to return the BBL funds. 
Mr U didnt think this was fair. He said Santander hadnt given any details of the investigation 
it said had been carried out or attempted to contact D about the matter. So he made a 
complaint. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that D needed to repay the BBL in line with the 
formal demand as they hadnt been eligible for the loan they had received. Santander also 
said that it was able to close Ds account in line with the terms and conditions. It said a letter 
had been issued on 9 November giving 60 days notice of the account closure, so it hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Mr U still didnt think this was fair and asked this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that the eligibility 
criteria for a BBL included trading prior to 1 March 2020 and applying for a loan that was a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover - but D hadnt been able to evidence they satisfied 
these requirements, including the £245,000 turnover figure declared in their application. 
While she acknowledged that Mr U said the application was made on Ds behalf by a third-
party, she said he had still signed the agreement to confirm that all the information in the 
application was correct, and that D had received the BBL funds. So she thought it was 
reasonable for the bank to take the action it did.
D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They said Santander 
had a duty of care to protect them from third-party contact and that the bank had told them to 
sign the loan agreement. They were also unhappy that Santander hadnt checked the 
information on the application was correct before granting the BBL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why
Under the rules of the BBL Scheme, there were specific eligibility criteria that a business 
needed to meet to obtain a BBL. These included the requirement to have been carrying on 
business on or before 1 March 2020, and that the amount being borrowed was no more than 
25% of the applicants turnover to a maximum of £50,000. 
Under the Scheme rules, a potential borrower would self-declare that they met the eligibility 
criteria, confirming they were trading at the requisite date, had applied for the loan amount 
they were entitled to receive and that the funds would be used in the correct manner. D 
obtained a loan of £45,000. So to be eligible for this, they needed to have had a turnover of 
£190,000 during the calendar year 2019. D declared a figure of £245,000 in its application. 
After D had received the BBL, Santander carried out a review on Ds application to verify the 
information it had provided to show it was eligible for the BBL. The bank wasnt satisfied that 
D had met the Scheme eligibility criteria for the loan it had obtained. So they wrote to D on 
1 October 2021, requesting further information to show that the company had been trading 
prior to 1 March 2020, had the turnover of £245,000 it declared and had spent the BBL funds 
on the company. After over two months without a response, the bank decided that it wasnt 
satisfied that D had met the Scheme eligibility criteria or had spent the funds in line with the 
Scheme requirements. It therefore withdrew the facility under an event of default in line with 
the agreement terms, on the basis that D declaration that it was trading at the requisite time 
and with sufficient turnover was incorrect. I think this was reasonable. 
I recognise Mr U feels that Santander should have carried out more checks before agreeing 
to the BBL, but under the Scheme rules a borrower would self-declare their turnover and that 
they met the eligibility criteria. Therefore lenders were entitled to rely on the information 
declared within the application. As D had signed the BBL agreement to say that the 
information on which it was based was correct, I think its reasonable that Santander 
accepted this in the manner it was presented. 
I also acknowledge that Mr U says he contacted the bank to say that a third-party had made 
the application on Ds behalf. However, I havent seen any evidence to support or 
substantiate Mr Us version of events. But even if I were to accept what Mr U has said, this 
took before the agreement had been signed and D had received the funds. If Mr U didnt 
want to proceed with the BBL on the information that had been submitted, he could have 
declined to proceed at this point. He didnt do so, but instead signed the agreement to 
confirm that the information which had been self-declared was correct. D then received and 
utilised the loan funds. So I dont think Santander can be held responsible for Mr Us 
decision to accept a BBL that D werent eligible for. Mr U also says that Santander has treated D unfairly by closing their account, but Im not 
persuaded thats the case. In certain circumstances, the bank is able to close an account by 
giving two months notice in line with the terms and conditions. I can see that Santander 
wrote to D on 9 November 2021 and gave 60 days notice of its intention to close all the 
companys accounts. I acknowledge that Ds account was restricted during the notice period, 
however I think this was reasonable pending the banks review of the BBL, during which  in 
line with the BBL terms and conditions - it may have used the funds in Ds account to offset 
against the outstanding loan balance. So I dont think the bank treated D unfairly here. 
I acknowledge Mr U says that Santander wouldnt tell them the reason for this decision 
initially  although he is now aware this is due to the BBL - but I dont think this was unfair. 
The bank doesnt need to provide customers with a reason for its decision to close an 
account. This is a commercial decision Santander is able to make, in the same way a 
customer can choose to close their account without explaining their decision. 
I recognise that Mr U feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen I dont think Santander did anything wrong in cancelling 
Ds BBL agreement when it became aware the company didnt meet the Scheme eligibility 
criteria. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman