DRN-3969604
The complaint
Miss I complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money she 
lost when she was scammed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Miss I says she fell victim to two investment scams in 2022. Regarding scam one, she says 
she was introduced to a company, F, by her friend. After checking Fs website and social 
media page, she started investing. She made 17 debit card payments from her Halifax 
account between February and July 2022, totalling £10,300. These didnt go straight to the 
scam company but were paid to an intermediary before being transferred on to Fs platform. 
Miss I says she kept being pushed to invest more, so decided to look F up on the instant 
messaging service she primarily used to contact them. She found lots of references to F 
being a scam.
While investing with F, Miss I also found an account on social media claiming to be creating 
a new cryptocurrency coin (scam two) offering an early investment opportunity with an 
expected return of 400% within 30 days. She transferred £600 to the account in July 2022. 
Shortly after, she was contacted by people warning her it was a scam. 
Miss I has complained to Halifax about both these scams. As it wouldnt refund her, she 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think Halifax ought to have 
prevented the scams, or could have recovered the loss  explaining (for scam one) that a 
chargeback claim wouldnt succeed as the merchant paid directly provided the expected 
service. 
As the scam two payment was a UK bank transfer, the investigator also considered if Miss I 
was due a refund in line with the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
(CRM) code which Halifax has signed up to (but which doesnt cover card payments). They 
thought an exception applied in the code  namely that Miss I didnt have a reasonable basis 
for believing the investment was legitimate  and so Halifax didnt need to refund her.
Miss I has appealed the investigators view. In summary, shes unhappy that Halifax wouldnt 
raise a chargeback claim in relation to scam one, given the evidence shes provided about F 
being a scam. She queried why they couldnt raise a claim for scam two. She also said she 
didnt have concerns before making the payment, and had got advice from someone who 
had sent her evidence of his experience. After the investigator responded to these points, 
Miss I requested an ombudsmans decision. So the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
It is accepted that Miss I has fallen victim to two investment scams. Im mindful of how much 
that has impacted her, not only in terms of the financial loss but also the worry and breach of 
trust that comes from having been deceived. My role here is to consider whether Halifax, as 
Miss Is bank, holds any liability for the money she lost to the scammers.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. As Miss I authorised the payments 
(albeit as a result of being tricked by the scammers), the starting position is that she is liable 
for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If 
Halifax failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Regarding scam one, Ive carefully considered Miss Is account activity to assess whether I 
think Halifaxs anti-fraud systems ought to have identified any of the payments as 
uncharacteristic and indicative of a fraud risk. Im not persuaded it should have. 
The payments didnt go direct to the scammers; they went to a legitimate intermediary. The 
individual amounts didnt look concerning. And the payments were spread out over a period 
of months. All of that made the payments appear less suspicious  as the amount, type and 
destination of the payments was in keeping with her usual account activity. 
There were two occasions (towards the end of the scam) when a number of payments were 
made to the intermediary on the same day. But the overall amount paid still didnt seem 
worryingly high. And by that point, the intermediary was an established payee. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax had cause to be concerned. It was reasonable for it to simply execute the 
payments in line with the authorised instructions it had received. 
Similarly, Im not persuaded it ought to have identified the payment to scam two as 
suspicious. This was a one-off payment of £600. In amongst Miss Is other account activity, it 
didnt look unusual or concerning  and so I dont think Halifax had cause to perform checks 
or issue a scam warning to warn Miss I.  
Ive also considered whether Halifax missed an opportunity to recover the funds once it was 
notified of the scams. For scam one, as these were card payments, these are covered by the 
chargeback scheme which provides some protection for card payment disputes. The 
scheme is voluntary, so banks arent obliged to raise claims under the scheme. But we 
consider it good practice to do so if the claim is likely to succeed.
In this instance, its clear Miss Is dispute is with F. I accept her evidence and testimony 
about how their actions amounted to a scam. But that would have no bearing on a 
chargeback claim for these payments. Such a claim would only consider the service 
provided by the merchant paid directly. There is no indication or allegation of service failings by the intermediary who was paid. 
They are a legitimate company, and it seems they processed the payments as they were 
expected to. Although the funds were then moved on to F, who I accept deceived Miss I, that 
is beyond the scope of a chargeback claim. Unfortunately, in situations like this, a claim 
wouldnt succeed. And so I dont think it was wrong for Halifax not to pursue such a claim. 
As our investigator has explained, a chargeback claim couldnt be raised for scam two as 
that scheme only covers card payments  whereas this payment was made via a bank 
transfer. All Halifax could do was notify the recipient bank  as Ive seen it did when Miss I 
reported the scam - to see if they could return the funds. But it didnt receive a response, so 
it couldnt do more. In my experience, scam payments tend to be moved on promptly, so it 
seems unlikely Miss Is funds were in the recipient account when she reported the scam.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded Halifax made any errors which caused or contributed 
to Miss Is loss. However, there is an additional consideration for scam two. As mentioned 
above, as it was a UK bank transfer (unlike the scam one payments), it is covered by the 
CRM code. In line with the code, the starting position is that signatories should refund 
victims of these types of scams  unless they establish that an exception applies. 
In this instance, Halifax declined to refund Miss I in line with an exception which says its not 
expected to refund a customer if, in the context of the scam, they made the payment without 
a reasonable basis for believing they were paying for genuine services and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
Having considered the arguments by both sides, Im satisfied Halifax established sufficient 
grounds for that exception. I appreciate Miss I didnt realise it was a scam. But the test here 
is what basis she had for thinking it was a legitimate investment opportunity. 
Miss I made the payment to someone she didnt know personally after seeing the 
opportunity on social media. I understand she spoke to the scammer, and possibly others, 
via an instant messaging service. But I dont think that was enough to establish their 
legitimacy. She didnt receive any official documentation such as a contract setting out the 
terms of the investment. And she didnt complete any independent research before making 
the payment. 
Miss I was also told she would receive a profit of four times her investment within 30 days, 
which I think sounded too good to be true. So, taking this altogether, Im persuaded Halifax 
has applied the code fairly in deciding not to refund Miss I. I dont think she had a reasonable 
basis for believing the investment was legitimate. 
Im also satisfied Halifax met its obligations under the code and in line with its usual duties. 
As explained above, it didnt have reason to suspect the payment was a scam at the time. 
So it wasnt obliged to perform checks or deliver an effective warning. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss I, who has clearly lost out due to the cruel 
actions of the scammers. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded Halifax needs to 
refund her for her loss. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman