DRN-2383263
The complaint
Mrs M complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (trading as More Th>n) unfairly 
declined her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs M made a claim on a pet insurance policy she held for her dog 
E. The claim was for vet fees incurred in treating E for a skin lesion.
More Th>n declined the claim; it said the lesion was linked to a pre-existing condition 
and pre-existing conditions werent covered under the policy.
Mrs M complained to More Th>n and said tests were carried out as she was 
concerned E might have developed a different condition which her other dogs had 
died from. She said theyd died within a week of the appearance of a lesion. Mrs M 
thought More Th>n should cover the cost of the tests as these were unrelated to Es 
pre-existing condition.
More Th>n didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint and she referred the matter to our 
service. She disagreed Es lesion was linked to a pre-existing condition and thought it 
was likely caused by carpet burn. Mrs M was also unhappy with More Th>ns 
communication which she felt was poor and lengthy.
Our investigator concluded there was no evidence to suggest Es lesion was caused 
by the condition Mrs M had been concerned about. She explained the policy didnt 
cover investigations into unknown conditions and clinical notes from the treating vet 
indicated presence of Es pre-existing condition. So, she thought More Th>n hadnt 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator also concluded the delay in 
More Th>n providing a final response was due to the treating vet not responding to it 
in a timely manner.  
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said Es pre-existing condition 
had been misdiagnosed and forwarded a more recent copy of the clinical notes. 
Mrs M accepted the treating vet was slow to respond but thought communication and 
wait time on calls with More Th>n was terrible.
Our investigator reviewed the additional information and concluded the vet had 
referred to Es pre-existing condition in addition to a new diagnosis. So, her opinion 
remained unchanged.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting position with any complaint about a declined claim is the contract 
between the parties  the policy document and policy schedule. These set out the 
basis on which cover has been agreed.
As with many insurance policies, an insurer will choose what risks it wants to cover 
and those which it doesnt. And most insurance policies will have exclusions and 
limitations. Ive considered the policy documentation carefully to see if Mrs Ms claim 
has been declined fairly and reasonably in accordance with the terms and conditions.
The policy provides cover for vet fees relating to illness or accident. Vet fees is 
defined in the policy and it includes examination and tests. But there are exclusions. 
The policy doesnt cover claims relating to pre-existing conditions or any illnesses 
(including signs or symptoms) which the policyholder or the vet was aware of in the 
first 14 days of the policy start date.
An investigation was carried out, but the results showed no evidence of the condition 
Mrs M had feared. Contemporaneous notes from the treating vet show Mrs M also 
reported symptoms for a skin condition during the two weeks leading to that period. 
Looking at Es medical history, this condition was mentioned during a consultation in 
October 2019. And during that consultation, it was noted the symptoms started in 
April 2019.
Ive considered the treating vets contemporaneous notes and can see they suggest 
a flare up of the condition which was first noticed in 2019. This is supported by the 
medication that was prescribed to treat Es symptoms. When asked about it, the 
treating vet couldnt confirm Es lesion wasnt connected to the flare up, or that it 
occurred due to a separate cause. Based on the available information, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for More Th>n to conclude the lesion was likely to have been 
caused by Es existing skin condition. 
The policy started on 29 April 2019. As the symptoms were first noticed in April 2019 
as well, unfortunately Mrs Ms claim isnt covered. This is because it would either be 
considered a pre-existing condition or something Mrs M was aware of in the first 14 
days of the policy start date. 
Ive considered what Mrs M has said about the misdiagnosis of Es condition. 
I acknowledge the latest clinical notes show E was diagnosed with a different 
condition in September 2020. But the notes also indicate the presence of the 
previous condition. Not only is there nothing to suggest it was previously 
misdiagnosed, I understand the medication E was prescribed at this time is used to 
treat that condition. So, Im not persuaded the subsequent diagnosis means More 
Th>ns decision to decline the claim in the spring of 2020 was unfair. 
I recognise this situation is frustrating for Mrs M. From her perspective, the only way 
a condition could have been ruled out was through the investigation. But the 
available evidence suggests Es lesion was likely related to an existing condition. And 
Ive not seen enough to be persuaded otherwise. As the policy provides cover only in 
specific instances, and a claim linked to a pre-existing condition isnt one of them, Im 
satisfied Mrs Ms claim was declined fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mrs Ms also raised concerns about poor communication and wait times. Although 
she hasnt provided specific details, I appreciate it might have taken her longer to get 
through to an adviser than she would have had preferred. But looking at its contact 
notes, Im satisfied More TH>n explained why the claim was declined. The adviser 
also informed Mrs M what she could do next if she wanted the decision to be 
reconsidered. And this was followed up in writing. I can see Mrs M challenged its 
decision and asked further questions. But I can also see More Th>n replied to these 
questions. Having considered the available information, Im satisfied More Th>n 
provided an explanation for its decision and how it could be appealed. I understand Mrs M is unhappy the claim was declined. But as Im satisfied it was declined 
fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, I wont be asking 
More Th>n to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman