DRN-3542034
Complaint
Mr M has complained about guarantor loans Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to him. 
He says these loans were provided irresponsibly as he couldnt afford the repayments.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr M with two loans in total. When it investigated Mr Ms complaint, 
Bamboo accepted that it shouldnt have provided Mr M with his second loan. And it agreed 
to put things right in the way that wed usually tell a lender to in circumstances where we 
were to say it was unfair to lend. As this is the case, weve not looked into Mr Ms complaint 
about loan 2 and weve only considered whether Bamboo acted fairly and reasonably when 
providing loan 1 to Mr M.
Bamboo provided Mr M with a loan for £2,600.00 in October 2018. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £160.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Bamboo had told us. She thought that 
Bamboo unfairly provided Mr M with this loan and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Bamboo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review complaint.
My provisional decision of 30 May 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 30 May 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms 
complaint.
I went on to explain that Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this meant was that Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mr M could afford to repay his loan before providing it to him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo said it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It said it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out which showed Mr M didnt have much outstanding debt and his 
commitments were relatively well maintained. 
Bamboo also used data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to estimate Mr Ms 
non-mortgage and credit related living expenses. In its view, all of this information showed 
Mr M could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mr M said he was in financial difficulty and couldnt afford the payments to this loan.
I carefully thought about what Mr M and Bamboo had said. 
Our investigator was concerned that this loan was taken out for consolidation purposes and 
the funds advanced werent enough to clear all of Mr Ms existing debts. While I agreed that 
this might have been the case, the funds advanced were enough to clear the vast majority of 
what Mr M owed. Bamboos credit searches also appeared to show that Mr Ms existing 
debts appeared to be relatively well managed. Equally, I couldnt see anything in the 
information Mr M provided which suggested he wouldnt have been able to make the 
repayments either. 
I went on to say that it wouldnt always be proportionate for a lender to rely on ONS data to 
estimate a prospective borrowers non-mortgage and credit related living costs. However, in 
this instance, there was no concerning information on Mr Ms credit file and the monthly loan 
repayments were relatively low. So I didnt think that it was unreasonable for Bamboo to 
utilise such information here, because everything else it obtained suggested that Mr M didnt 
fall outside the profile of the average customer in this instance. 
Furthermore, the proceeds of this loan could have been used to clear the balance on Mr Ms 
credit card. I accept that the balance on Mr Ms existing accounts were towards the 
maximum amount he had available. But as this was a first loan and Bamboo provided 
sufficient funds to clear Mr Ms outstanding credit card balance, I was satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on him doing this.   
I accepted that Mr M said he experienced difficulty making the payments. And the reason 
why might have been because he did go on to re-establish balances on the account that was 
supposed to have been cleared. But Bamboo could only make a reasonable decision based 
on the information it had available at the time. It wont have known Mr M would do this  all it 
could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances from Mr M that the balance 
would be repaid. 
Bamboo couldnt close Mr Ms credit card account to prevent him spending on it, because it 
was held with another provider. And as this was a first loan it was providing to Mr M, there 
wasnt a history of Mr M obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in 
the way he committed to, which it needed to take account of.
As this was the case, I didnt think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to   
Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable and it took reasonable steps to ensure Mr Ms 
indebtedness wasnt increasing unsustainably. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to conclude that Bamboo didnt 
treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with loan 1. And as it has already 
agreed to put things right for loan 2, in the way Id direct it to if I were to say it shouldnt have 
provided this loan, I explained that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Responses to my provisional decision
Bamboo confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It said that it accepted my findings and 
that it had no further comments ahead of my final decision.
Mr Ms representative also confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It didnt provide 
anything further or request any additional time to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out in some detail why I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So I remain satisfied that Bamboo didnt treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with loan 1. And as it has already agreed to put things right for loan 2, in the way Id 
direct it to if I were to say it shouldnt have provided this loan, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 30 May 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman