DRN-3493048
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated him unfairly when it 
closed his business account and withdrew his Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
What happened
Mr M told us:
He had a business account and BBL for £50,000 with HSBC. In December 2020, the 
bank restricted his account without telling him why, which caused his direct debits to 
go unpaid.
In February 2021, HSBC closed his account with 60 days notice but didnt give him a 
reason for this decision, which he felt was unfair. 
HSBC used the credit balance of around £35,000 in the account to repay some of the 
BBL and demanded repayment of the rest. He didnt think it was fair for the bank to 
do this, especially as some of the money had been borrowed from his family.
The bank had been chasing him for repayment of the overdrawn account, but this 
was unfair as it was due to the charges incurred as a result of the bank not paying his 
direct debits.  
HSBC told us:
It had restricted and closed Mr Ms account after undertaking an account review. 
It made the commercial decision to exit the relationship with Mr M, which was in line 
with its terms and conditions. 
It applied the right of set off to use the credit balance in Mr Ms account against the 
outstanding balance on the BBL. So Mr M now needed to repay around £15,000 
rather than £50,000. 
Its collections agents had contacted Mr M as his account remained overdrawn due to 
the charges from the bounced payments. The agents would stop calling Mr M once 
they had made contact and agreed a way to repay the outstanding balance. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong in restricting Mr Ms account, 
then closing it and offsetting the credit balance against the BBL as the bank had acted in line 
with its terms and conditions in doing so. She also said it was reasonable for HSBC to 
undertake ongoing checks on the account and BBL as part of its regulatory obligations. 
However, she said HSBC hadnt closed Mr Ms account in the timescale agreed which meant 
the account had accrued charges despite Mr M not being able to use it. So she 
recommended the bank repay Mr M what hed paid in charges so he could close the account 
and pay him £100 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused by this. 
HSBC didnt agree it had done anything wrong but said it would accept the recommendation 
as a gesture of goodwill.
 
Mr M didnt accept the view as he wanted to know the reasons behind HSBCs decision and 
for the credit balance to be returned, with compensation for the impact this had on his 
business and the distress it had caused him. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC restricted his account and didnt tell him the reason for its 
decision. As a bank, HSBC has certain legal and regulatory obligations that it needs to 
comply with. HSBC is able to use its commercial discretion in deciding how it will meet these 
obligations, and what checks it will undertake.  HSBCs account terms say that the bank can, 
in certain circumstances, withdraw any service or close an account either by giving 60 days 
notice, or with immediate effect and without notice, if it reasonably believes it has cause to 
do so. The account terms then give various examples for when the bank may choose to use 
these options.    
HSBC has provided us with the information on which its decision to restrict, and then close 
Mr Ms account was based. And having reviewed this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
the bank to take this action in line with the account terms and conditions. I recognise Mr M is 
unhappy he hasnt been provided with any detail about the reason for the banks decision. 
But the bank doesnt need to disclose any more information than it already has, and I wont 
be asking it to do so.
HSBCs review also led it to terminate the BBL agreement. The bank had the power to do so 
in certain circumstances and I dont think it did anything wrong in taking that action in light of 
the findings of its review.
Mr M also feels its unfair that after he gave the bank notice that he wanted to close his 
account, HSBC recalled the BBL and used the available funds in the account to offset 
against the outstanding balance. But I dont agree. HSBCs general terms and conditions for 
its accounts allows the bank the right of set-off. This means that any funds held in accounts 
in Mr Ms name could be used by HSBC to repay or reduce any amounts he owed on any 
accounts with the bank. So it didnt do anything wrong in using the funds in Mr Ms account 
to reduce the outstanding balance on his BBL.
I can see that after HSBC gave Mr M the 60 days notice in February 2021, meaning that it 
was going to close his account in April 2021, it didnt actually do so. Ive also seen that there 
was an outstanding debit balance on Mr Ms account which prevented the bank from closing 
the account. HSBC said it was still looking for Mr M to clear the overdrawn balance as 
requested and had passed this to its collections department to liaise with Mr M on how he 
intended to do so. However, Mr M told us that due to his account being restricted, his direct 
debit payments were returned unpaid and as a result of this, charges were applied which 
caused him to go overdrawn, which he then had to repay on a monthly basis which was 
unfair. 
Looking at the evidence from both parties, I can see that Mr M was in the process of opening 
an account with another bank  which hed made HSBC aware of. Given that HSBC had 
decided it was going to terminate its banking relationship with Mr M and use all of the funds 
held within the account towards repaying the BBL, I think it should have closed his account 
immediately. This would have meant the bank couldnt apply charges to Mr Ms account therefore taking the balance overdrawn- which it then proceeded to request he repay. I 
recognise HSBC may say that it was assisting Mr M in giving him 60 days notice, however it 
restricted his account with immediate effect so the notice period was of no benefit  
particularly as Mr M didnt know his regular payments wouldnt be made as a result of the 
banks actions. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, whilst I recognise HSBC acted in line with its terms and 
conditions, I dont think it was fair that Mr M ended up in an overdrawn position in the 
circumstances. HSBC has  albeit as a gesture of goodwill - offered to refund Mr M the 
£137.50 he had paid towards the account charges and pay him £100 compensation. I think 
thats a fair way to put things right. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr M £100 compensation and 
reimburse him the £137.50 account charges to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £237.50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman