The complaint
Mr B has complained about loans granted to him by PDL Finance Limited trading as  Mr 
Lender (Mr Lender or the lender). Mr B says that he was borrowing from other short term 
lenders at the time and was in such financial difficulty that he entered into a debt 
management plan with several lenders. Mr B says the loans were unaffordable and that
Mr Lender should have known this and not agreed further credit for him.
What happened
Mr Lender agreed five loans for Mr B between September 2014 and September 2016. The 
loans ranged in value from £260 to £1,000 and the terms varied. The below table sets out 
some information Mr Lender has provided about these loans (with numbers rounded to the 
nearest pound). I understand all the loan accounts are closed.
LoanDate
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Principal (£)Highest 
repayment (£)
1 27/09/2014 01/10/2014 1 260 338
2 04/10/2014 28/11/2014 2 707 566
3 29/11/2014 30/06/2015 6 1,000 467
4 09/07/2016 30/09/2016 3 200 102
5 30/09/2016 07/02/2017 3 500 291
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Bs complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part and 
that Mr Lender refunds the interest and charges Mr B paid for loan 3 because the increasing 
loan amounts and short period of time between the loans indicated that Mr B was likely to be 
in financial difficulty.
Mr Lender didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the case to come to an 
ombudsman for review and final decision. The case came to me and I issued my provisional 
decision on 19 May 2020 explaining why I agreed with the adjudicators recommendation for 
loan 3 and, in addition, provisionally found that it was irresponsible of Mr Lender to have 
agreed to loan 5.  
Mr Lender didnt agree with my provisional findings on loan 3 or loan 5. Mr B accepted them, 
and commented that all his loans had been repaid and that there was no outstanding capital 
balance to pay. This is now my final decision on the matter and, if Mr B accepts it, will be 
binding on him and Mr Lender.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1937571Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. 
I want to reassure Mr Lender that I have thought carefully about what it said in response to 
my provisional decision. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for it, but I am still of the 
view that it was irresponsible to agree loans 3 and 5 for Mr B. So, I am continuing to uphold 
his complaint about these loans. Id set out my reasons for doing so in my provisional 
decision. I have reviewed everything again and, for completeness, will set out my reasoning 
and conclusions here, along with my consideration of everything both parties have said in 
response. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mr B took out his loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that for 
all loans Mr Lender needed to check that Mr B could afford to meet his repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Mr B being able to meet his repayments out of his normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Mr Lender needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether Mr B would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr B for information about his income and expenditure each time he 
applied for a loan. It recorded his monthly income as £2,700 and his monthly expenses as 
£1,445 for his first three loans; and it recorded his income as £3,000 and his expenses as 
£2,150 for his last two loans. 
Mr Lender also says it carried out a check with a third-party credit reference agency when 
agreeing loans 1 to 3 and loan 5 for Mr B and has provided a high level summary of the 
results, but not the detail of them. I understand Mr B told Mr Lender when he first applied to 
it that he was living with a parent and that his rent of £500 covered the council tax and all 
household bills.
I think Mr Lenders checks for Mr Bs first two loans were proportionate. It might have been 
concerning that Mr B took out his second loan within days of repaying his first, given it was 
for more than twice the amount with the highest monthly repayment taking up a fifth of his monthly income. However, hed repaid his first loan in a matter of days and there werent any 
obvious signs of him being in financial difficulty when he applied for his second. The 
information he gave about his income and expenses indicated that the repayments would be 
affordable.
As the loan table above shows, Mr B then took out a third loan the day after repaying his 
second, for a significantly larger amount, albeit with a lower monthly repayment. Our 
adjudicator found that Mr Lender should have declined Mr Bs third loan because it was likely 
that he was in financial difficulty and would have struggled to meet his repayments for this 
loan sustainably. 
Mr Lender said in response that Mr B had repaid his second loan without any issues and the 
repayment amounts for his third were lower because the term was longer. The lender also 
said that its checks for this loan were proportionate and it seemed from the information it had 
gathered that the loan would be affordable for Mr B. And it pointed out that this was early in 
their lending relationship and more comprehensive checks would not generally be 
warranted.
I have borne in mind that the regulations required Mr Lender to check that Mr B could afford 
to make his repayments in a sustainable manner. Successfully meeting his repayments 
doesnt automatically mean that he managed to do so without difficulty, in other words 
without borrowing from elsewhere or going without. Repaying one loan and taking out 
another immediately might not amount to an indication of unsustainability but I think when it 
happens again, it could be cause for concern. Mr Bs third loan was for an amount of more 
than four times his first loan and he would need to meet repayments, potentially, for six 
months.
Having thought about this matter carefully, I am in agreement with our adjudicator that it was 
more likely than not that Mr B would struggle to meet his repayments for this third loan in a 
sustainable manner. I dont think it was fair of Mr Lender to decide to lend on the basis of the 
information it had and, at the least, it ought to have checked that Mr B didnt have anything 
else to pay outside of his regular expenses that might have impacted on his ability to make 
his repayments, such as any outstanding short term loans from other providers.
Mr Lender says that it asked Mr B about his existing credit commitments and he said he 
owed £400 to other lenders. Mr Lender says that this included commitments to short term 
lenders but, as Mr Lender hasnt explained how it gathered this information from Mr B or 
what it found out about his existing credit when it checked his credit file, I cant say that it 
took reasonable steps to check Mr Bs existing short term lending commitments at this time.
Mr B has provided his credit file to this Service and it shows that, aside from any credit card 
debt, he owed over £3,000 to other short term and high cost credit providers. He had at least 
three outstanding short term loans and one home credit loan, and was in a cycle of taking 
loans out and using these to repay other lenders  hed repaid several loans just before 
taking this one out and also took out a number of loans the same day.
Given the extent of his other borrowing, I think its likely that Mr Lender would have 
uncovered this had it looked into his finances in greater depth and, as a responsible lender, 
would not have agreed this third loan for Mr B.
Mr Lender said, in response to my provisional decision, that it was too early to have seen a 
pattern in Mr Bs borrowing history by the time he applied for loan 3  I agree and have said 
as such. Mr B had been borrowing for just two months and this was the second time hed 
applied for a loan within days of repaying a previous one. However, loan 3 involved a significant increase in amount borrowed, Mr B applied for it 
within days of repaying loan 2 and he would need to meet his repayments potentially for six 
months. Altogether, considering everything, while I dont think that in this case Mr Lender 
should necessarily have automatically declined to lend to Mr B, I do think it needed to do 
more to check that Mr B would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. And, as I 
explained above, I think Mr Lender would have understood that this was unlikely and so 
would not have agreed to lend, had everything happened as it should have when Mr B 
applied for his third loan. 
Mr B met his first repayment for loan 3 but missed his second, and needed to put a 
repayment plan in place with Mr Lender in order to repay it. Mr Lender said Upon informing 
us of financial difficulty, Mr Lender supported Mr [B] by setting up an affordable repayment 
plan. Through this support, Mr [B] was able to repay the loan in full over a longer duration 
whilst making lower affordable monthly payments. Mr Lender also said that it  did support 
Mr [B] through the repayment of this loan with a repayment plan and he also received a large 
discount which meant he repaid £500.03 less than what he signed and agreed to within his 
contractual agreement.
I understand that, when Mr B repaid his third loan, he didnt apply again to Mr Lender for a 
year, this time for the much lower amount of £200. Our adjudicator considered that Mr B had 
two separate episodes of borrowing from Mr Lender because there was a gap between 
repaying his third loan and taking out his fourth. In other words he found that it wasnt 
unreasonable of the lender to think that Mr Bs circumstances had moved on, that he was in 
a better position to take on credit and so in assessing his application for a fourth loan could 
treat him as it would a new customer.
However, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it was wholly reasonable of
Mr Lender to think that Mr Bs financial situation had improved. When Mr B applied for his 
fourth loan, the lender said it asked him why hed had to set up a repayment plan for his third 
loan and he told it Last year I had more outgoing at the time and as a result I could not 
afford the payment. I have less going out now and my income has increased". While its true 
Mr B said his income was now £3,000 (and provided payslips to support that figure) he also 
said that his expenses had increased to £2,150, which included increased credit 
repayments, so it seems his disposable income had dropped by a third.
But, given the length of time which had passed since Mr B had previously borrowed and 
given the lower amount of credit he was taking on, I find that, on balance, Mr Lender wasnt 
irresponsible to have agreed to this loan based on its checks.
Mr B applied for a fifth loan from Mr Lender the same day he repaid his fourth and it was for 
more than double the amount. I think Mr Lender ought to have gathered a comprehensive 
picture of Mr Bs finances before agreeing any level of credit for him at this point, given his 
borrowing history and the circumstances of this loan. I dont think it was fair to continue to 
rely on what Mr B was saying about his expenses without verifying them. I cant see that Mr 
Lender did this so I dont think it carried out proportionate checks for Mr Bs last loan.
Mr Bs credit file shows that his financial situation hadnt improved since hed last borrowed 
from Mr Lender. Hed continued to borrow throughout 2015 and now owed more money to at 
least six other short term lenders. Furthermore, hed missed repayments on two recent short 
term loans and was managing over £3,000 through a debt management plan with a national 
debt management agency. I think its likely Mr Lender would have understood that Mr B was 
not in a position to repay more credit sustainably, had it carried out proportionate checks 
here and would not have agreed to another loan for him at this time.Mr Lender said, in response to my provisional decision, that as this was the second loan in 
the second chain of borrowing, it would have been disproportionate to carry out a full 
financial review, especially as Mr B had repaid his previous loan as per his contract. So even 
though the amount increased for loan 5, it feels its checks were proportionate. 
I appreciate that there had been a gap in borrowing  it had been a year since Mr B repaid 
his third loan and before asking for a fourth. Generally, I would consider it to be reasonable 
that a lender would conclude that an applicants circumstances had improved in that time. 
However, as Id explained in my provisional decision, I thought Mr Lender ought to have 
been mindful of how Mr B had managed his third loan. As mentioned, his disposable income 
seemed to have decreased. And so, altogether, when Mr B returned for second loan (loan 5) 
for a higher amount I think Mr Lender ought to have considered his circumstances more 
fully. 
Id said in my provisional decision that Mr Lender could offset any capital balance 
outstanding on loan 5 with the refund from loan 3. In response, Mr B said hed repaid his 
loans and so there was no balance outstanding. Mr Lender confirmed that Mr [B] does not 
have an outstanding balance on his fifth loan, this was repaid on 7 February 2017, with a 
70% discount, thus repaying less than the total repayable in his contract. 
So - it seems from the information I have that Mr B repaid the capital he borrowed on loans 3 
and 5, though he did receive a discount in the amount of interest and fees he needed to pay. 
Putting things right
Ive concluded that Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed to loans 3 and 5 for Mr B, 
taken out in November 2014 and September 2016 respectively. In order to put things right 
for him, Mr Lender should
refund the interest and fees Mr B paid on loans 3 and 5; and
pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to
the dates of settlement; and
remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about by PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender in part and require it to put things right for him as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman