Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined a claim he made on 
his car insurance policy and voided the policy.
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen so he claimed on his car insurance policy, which hed taken out 
through a price comparison website. Advantage assessed the claim and declined it because 
they said Mr B hadnt disclosed modifications to the car when he took out the policy. They 
said that if hed done so they wouldnt have offered him cover. So, they declined the claim 
and voided the policy, but refunded the premiums. 
Mr B complained to Advantage, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim and 
void the policy. Unhappy, Mr B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought Mr B had taken reasonable 
care when answering the questions when he took out the policy. She accepted he didnt 
know that the modifications werent factory modifications. She recommended Advantage 
reinstated the policy, reassessed the claim, paid 8% simple interest and pay him £100 
compensation. However, she thought they could deduct the premiums theyd refunded from 
the settlement. 
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation. Advantage didnt reply. So, I need to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
DRN-4274403Page 2 of 3CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Advantage says Mr 
B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he answered a 
question about modifications to the car. They said that if Mr B had disclosed that the car had 
modifications, which werent factory modifications, they wouldnt have offered cover. Theyve 
provided underwriting information which demonstrates that. 
Ive looked at the question Mr B was asked which was:
Does the car have any modifications? 
Theres a help box next to the question which explains that modifications are: non-standard 
changes made to the car after manufacture. These include new spoilers, alloy wheels etc. 
but a tow bar doesnt seem to be listed. Mr B answered No to that question. However, I 
think Mr B took reasonable care when answering the question. Im not persuaded Mr B was 
aware that the car had modifications which were non-standard changes made to the car 
after manufacture. Ill explain why. 
Information about the modifications wasnt set out on the documents Mr B received when he 
bought the car. So, I dont think he would have reasonably been aware of them. In reaching 
that conclusion Ive taken into account the specification of the car Mr B was purchasing and I 
think he reasonably concluded these were changes made when the car was manufactured, 
based on the information he had. 
Advantage has referred to an online advert the dealership provided which does include a list 
of the modifications. But Mr B said he didnt see that advert because he originally made an 
appointment to see a different car. However, when he was at the dealership he saw the car 
he ultimately purchased. So, he says he didnt see the advert Advantage has looked at. The 
evidence Ive seen suggests it is most likely that the advert was removed once Mr B paid the 
deposit in 2019. Mr B didnt take out this policy until 2021. And Ive found Mr Bs testimony to 
be credible, plausible and persuasive. That means Im not persuaded Mr B saw the advert in 
2019 or that he had access to it when the policy was taken out. 
As I think Mr B took reasonable care when he answered the question, I dont think he made 
a qualifying misrepresentation to Advantage. So, I dont think Advantage acted reasonably 
when they declined the claim and avoided the policy. 
Our investigator awarded £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr B by delays in handling the claim and poor communication. Advantage didnt provide a 
response to the investigators recommendation and theyve not provided any further 
information in support of the actions taken. In any event, Im satisfied the decision to decline 
the claim unfairly also had an impact on Mr B. I think the overall situation caused him a lot of 
worry and stress, particularly as he was under a lot of financial pressure because his car had 
been stolen and he was making ongoing finance payments.
Putting things right
Advantage needs to put things right by reinstating the policy, reassessing Mr Bs claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date the 
claim was declined until the date of settlement. They also need to pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor customer service. 
Advantage can reduce the overall settlement to reflect the premiums it refunded to Mr B.Page 3 of 3If Advantage considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Mr B how much its taken off. They should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about Advantage Insurance Company Limited and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman