DRN-3041182
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered both Mr and Mrs M.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
I think Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy was most likely mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check it was right for them. 
But I dont think it was right for them.
Mr M had a medical condition at the time which would not have been covered. The condition 
was one with potentially severe consequences, for which he had to take regular significant 
medication and have regular check-ups. Hed had to take time off work for his condition and 
he explained it had significant effects on his day-to-day life.
So I think this condition wouldve mattered to Mr M. Indeed, he might have considered it to 
be the most likely one to cause him to take time off work. But he wasnt covered if it did  so 
the PPI didnt cover Mr M for everything he might have reasonably expected it to.
Santander asked for contemporaneous evidence of Mr Ms condition and its effects over the 
years. I do understand why it would like such in-depth evidence, but I have to be fair to both 
sides and keep reasonable expectations. For instance, Santander has been unable to 
provide original documents from the sale and has not been able to show that Mr or Mrs M 
actually consented to the PPI. This is understandable given all the time thats passed, so Ive 
given it the benefit of the doubt there. But equally, I cannot reasonably expect Mr and Mrs M 
to be able to produce full medical records from nearly two decades ago. And what theyve 
told us has been consistent and plausible. Ive got no good reason to doubt them.
Santander says it would have checked the policy was suitable, including in relation to pre-
existing medical conditions. But Ive not seen any evidence that it did so here  nor that it 
gave Mr and Mrs M clear enough information about the policys main exclusions. I think that 
if Santander had given Mr and Mrs M suitable advice and clear enough information, then it 
would have become clear the policy wasnt right for them, and so I think its most likely they 
wouldnt have bought it. So I think its most likely that this policy has been mis-sold.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this simple interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax from HMRC if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman