DRN-3825997
The complaint
Mr M complains about Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein 
AG (Helvetia) who declined his claim, under his gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M said that he fell asleep on a train and when he woke up, his phone and watch were 
missing. He made a claim to Helvetia who requested further information from him, as it 
deemed that the items were stolen, rather than lost. That information was a crime reference 
number, proof of purchase, proof that the phone had been blacklisted and he was asked to 
provide proof of find my phone location. 
Mr M provided some information, but nothing that Helvetia had asked for. So, Helvetia were 
unable to validate the claim and told Mr M that the claim would be declined. Mr M ultimately 
referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said it was Mr Ms responsibility to show that he suffered an insured loss. In that it was more 
likely than not that the items were stolen. And he had to do this by providing the information 
as requested, which he didnt do. So, she concluded that Helvetia had been fair to decline 
the claim. 
Helvetia accepted the view. Mr M did not. He said that he didnt understand the view as he 
said that he had sent all the information Helvetia had requested. He said he was unable to 
provide the find my phone information, as both items were lost. And he was unable to 
provide usage of the phone, either. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what the obligations were for each 
party. And whether Helvetia had dealt with the claim fairly, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr M said that on his way home his watch and phone were taken from him as he had fallen 
asleep. Helvetia said that as the items were stolen, it deemed this as a theft rather than a 
loss. And as such it required Mr M to provide further information in order to validate the 
claim. 
The policy states under the theft section: If the incident is not reported to the Police within 
24 hours of Your discovery of the incident and You do not obtain a crime reference number 
or lost property reference from the police.  It goes on to confirm that Mr M should also 
provide proof that the phone had been blacklisted. 
Although I accept that Mr M provided a report my loss and a screenshot that indicated that 
the phone was lost. I cant see that Mr M complied with the policy terms namely, reporting 
the theft to the police and obtaining a crime reference number. As well as blacklisting the 
phone. 
Mr M believed that the report my loss, was sufficient to validate the claim. But the 
responsibility is on Mr M to provide the information required. And as this wasnt done, I cant 
agree that he sufficiently provided the assurances that Helvetia required, to show that the 
phone and watch could no longer be used. And the possible theft had been reported to the 
police, as was required. 
Consequently, I think that as Helvetia relied upon the policy terms and conditions, in order to 
decline the claim, it did nothing wrong as it dealt with the claim in line with the policy. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr M will be, Im not 
satisfied that Helvetia were unfair or unreasonable in relying on the policy terms to decline 
the claim. So, I wont be asking Helvetia to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman