DRN-4050983
The complaint
Miss D, Mrs D and Mr D complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim. For ease, as the policy holder, Ill only refer to Mr D in my decision.
What happened
Around July last year, Mr D made a claim under his policy because he and his family were 
unable to travel on their holiday abroad. Prior to the planned departure date, Mr D was 
informed that his flight had been cancelled  an alternative flight was booked, but this was 
also cancelled shortly after, with no alternatives available. Mr D had bookings for hotels, 
travel and activities in the destination country, which he was charged in full for cancelling - 
incurring losses of over £10,000. 
AWP declined the claim pointing to the terms and conditions of the policy, which say that 
Mr D needed to be at the point of departure at the time the delay or abandonment of the trip 
occurred. Mr D never travelled to the airport as he already knew the flight had been 
cancelled. Mr D complained to AWP about its decision, but the insurer stood by its view on 
the claim.
After Mr D asked this service to get involved, one of our investigators upheld the complaint 
and asked AWP to consider the claim again. The investigator pointed to our approach and 
decided that it wouldve been unreasonable for Mr D to travel to the airport knowing that the 
flight had been cancelled. AWP didnt agree, reiterating what its terms say. Because the 
insurer didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final say on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reminding the parties about the remit of this service. My powers allow me 
to decide complaints based on what I think is fair and reasonable. So, although Id have the 
relevant rules and the terms and conditions in mind, my decision can depart from these 
where I think this provides for a fair and reasonable outcome. So, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The terms of the policy set out that cover in this situation is only in place where the policy 
holder has travelled to the point of departure and has been checked in  so if theres a delay 
or the trip is abandoned after 12 hours of delay, then there is an entitlement to the policy 
benefit. Mr D didnt travel to the departure point, so AWP relied on this as cause to decline 
the claim. Although AWP seems to have technically applied its terms correctly, Ive 
considered whether it shouldve settled the claim on a fair a reasonable basis. 
I think it was unfair for AWP to have declined the claim. Despite what the terms say, it 
wouldve been unreasonable for Mr D to travel to the departure point. He had already been 
informed before the departure date that the flights had been cancelled. Therefore, travelling 
to the airport wouldve been of no benefit as there was no flight to check in to, so Mr D had 
no apparent way of satisfying this part of the terms. 
As our investigator pointed out, the result of travelling to the airport and not doing so 
wouldve been the same  being that Mr D wouldnt have been able to continue with his trip. 
And his decision not to travel to the airport doesnt seem to have affected the value of the 
claim. So, in my view, to decline the claim for this reason alone is unreasonable.
Although AWP says the claim isnt covered because Mr D was notified about the cancelled 
flights ahead of the departure date, I cant see that the policy terms explain what happens in 
such circumstances, where the result is that the whole trip cannot continue. I acknowledge 
that the policy terms do not specifically list flight cancellation, but I think the circumstances of 
Mr Ds claim can be covered under the abandonment part of policy  which covers each 
share of the cost of the trip by up to £5,000. 
Mr Ds original flight was cancelled and effectively delayed his trip for more than the required 
12 hours  especially as the replacement flight was also cancelled. So Im satisfied that this 
claim can be considered as valid under this part of the policy.
In my opinion AWP unfairly relied on its terms to decline this claim. Under the strict definition 
of the terms, Mr D wouldnt be entitled to the policy benefit because he didnt travel to the 
departure point. However, keeping fairness in mind, I dont find it unreasonable that he didnt 
do so as it wouldnt have changed the outcome, which was an outright abandonment of the 
trip. Nor did this appear to have affected the value of the claim. Even though the flight was 
cancelled instead of being delayed, the result of the cancellation is the same here. So I think 
AWP should settle the claim.
Putting things right
AWP unfairly declined this claim. To put things right, it should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms. AWP should add interest to any payment it makes at 8% simple per year, 
from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. AWP P&C SA should settle this claim in line with what Ive set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D, 
Mrs D and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman