DRN-3150238
The complaint
Miss C has complained JCT600 (Yorkshire) Ltd didnt treat her as vulnerable customers 
when she took out finance agreements for different cars.
What happened
Miss C bought four cars from a dealership over a six month period in 2018. The dealership, 
JCT600, acted as credit broker for those four cars. These werent the only cars Miss C had 
bought or enquired about at JCT600.
In late 2019 Miss C came to believe shed been groomed financially and taken emotional 
and financial advantage of. This person (who Ill call Mr B) had worked at JCT600. Miss C 
believed shed been manipulated to buy cars and take out finance agreements to boost 
Mr Bs income.
JCT600 met informally with Miss C. She believed she was told that she should have been 
treated as a vulnerable customer. These purchases came after Miss Cs parents had died 
when she was more emotionally open to being manipulated. JCT600 told us they didnt 
believe theyd done anything wrong.
Our investigator explained to Miss C why there were so many parts of her complaint we 
couldnt look at. Our jurisdiction only applied to JCT600s role as credit broker. Overall he 
didnt believe there was any basis we could ask JCT600 to do anything further.
Miss C disagreed with this outcome. She asked an ombudsman to make a decision on her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Miss C has done 
and Ive done so using my own words. Firstly Im doing this because of the personal and 
distressing nature of the issues shes raised. I dont feel the need to repeat what shes told 
us about her experiences over the period since her parents died and since she met Mr B. Id 
like to reassure her, however, that Ive taken into account her powerful personal testimony.
So Im not going to respond to every single point made by Miss C. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Apart from the detail shared with us by Miss C, Im also aware of the detail contained in our 
investigators view of 29 September 2021 and subsequent emails.. This covers what 
happened in detail and Miss Cs evidence. I wont be repeating all this information again but I 
have taken it into account.
It's worth stressing that my role relates solely to JCT600s role as a credit broker. Im aware 
that further cars were sold by them to Miss C but no finance was taken out. Miss C had a 
long-standing relationship with JCT600 and had bought numerous cars through them over a 
period before the issues shes disputing here. 
Im also aware of her allegations about Mr B and his role as an employee of JCT600. I cant 
look at these aspects as they dont relate to a regulated consumer credit agreement where 
my jurisdiction applies.
Theres no dispute Miss C has a history of regularly enquiring about cars, buying cars and 
then trading them in; on occasion after driving them for short periods. This also relates to her 
profession and she has personal reasons why good cars and the comfort they bring to her 
resonate.
Ive also seen evidence of correspondence between Miss C and JCT600 which 
demonstrates her clear understanding of what she wants from a car and concern that she 
may not be getting what shes buying (and that includes the value of the cars themselves).
JCT600 dont carry out any expenditure checks  what theyre doing is introducing Miss C to 
a prospective lender. Our investigator referred to the relevant clauses which lay out the 
requirements of a responsible credit broker. This includes ensuring Miss C has received the 
appropriate information about the credit agreement. Ive seen what Miss C has received and 
she doesnt dispute this requirement was met.
In addition JCT600 is required to ensure Miss C isnt induced into entering the credit 
agreements without having time to consider the relevant pre-contract information. Again all 
the evidence Ive seen points to this requirement being met.
Miss C believes JCT600 should have carried out vulnerability checks. She mentioned that 
Mr B wasnt in a position to sign off on all her involvement with JCT600 himself.  
Ive reviewed JCT600s vulnerability policy. Theres nothing in there which indicates theres a 
limit on the number of cars which Miss C could (or should) purchase within any set period. 
There is a description of different triggers which mean JCT600 could investigate further. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that Miss C would meet these criteria.
My conclusion that JCT600 needs to do nothing further does not mean I doubt Miss Cs 
testimony. Just that my role means theres clear limits on what I consider. And having 
considered those aspects in full, I dont believe theres enough evidence to show theyve 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Cs complaint against 
JCT600 (Yorkshire) Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman