DRN-1615770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt tell them there were limits on porting 
their mortgage tracker rate. They ask that HSBC ports their tracker rate to their new 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage with HSBC with a tracker rate. In 2017 they decided to buy a 
second property which had tenants. They say they intended to move into it within three 
years, and continue to let it out in the meantime. Mr and Mrs H met with HSBC to discuss 
their options. They increased their mortgage on their existing property and took out a buy to 
let mortgage on the second property. 
Mr and Mrs H say their aim was to retain their tracker rate and port it to the new property 
when they moved into it. They say HSBC didnt tell them there was any problem with this 
plan. But when they applied to port the mortgage, in 2019, they were told this wasnt 
possible. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence HSBC told Mr and Mrs H theyd be able to port 
the mortgage to a property they already owned. The mortgage offer said the product can be 
ported to a property bought within six months of the date the mortgage was repaid. Our 
investigator said HSBC applied its porting criteria correctly.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, saying their complaint is that HSBC didnt tell them it wouldnt be 
possible to port their mortgage to their new property. Mr H says HSBC should have explain 
this as they were seeking advice about how to port their mortgage in the context of the 
transactions being discussed. He said they could have delayed buying the second property if 
theyd known.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage with HSBC was portable. The mortgage offer they accepted says 
the tracker rate can be ported, subject to meeting criteria. It goes on to say:
The existing mortgage must be repaid. You must take the money for the new mortgage and 
use it to buy the other house within six months of the date you moved house and repaid 
the existing mortgage. (The emphasis is my own.)
I think its clear that porting is only allowed where a property is being sold and another 
bought  its intended for borrowers who are moving home. Its common for mortgage 
lenders not to allow porting to a property already owned by the borrower. 
Mr and Mrs Hs request in 2019 to port their mortgage to a property they already owned 
wasnt something they were entitled to under the terms of their mortgage. HSBC provided its 
porting criteria and I think it applied its criteria correctly here.
But this isnt the end of the matter. I also have to decide if HSBC treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. 
In particular, if it misled them in 2017 about being able to port their tracker rate to the 
property they were in the process of buying. 
HSBC provided notes of its advisers meeting with Mr and Mrs H and the advice report it 
sent to them. The notes say Mr and Mrs H had already applied for a buy to let mortgage for 
the new property on a non-advised basis. They also needed to borrow £154,000 for the 
purchase, and HSBC recommended a home owners loan. The notes say Mr and Mrs H 
intended to let the property for a few years before retiring there. 
Mr and Mrs H say they discussed their plans with HSBC in detail. The notes dont (and arent 
intended to) include a full account of that discussion. But theres nothing in HSBCs notes or 
the advice report suggesting HSBC said they could port their existing mortgage to the new 
property in the future. And, importantly, theres nothing in the notes to say that Mr and Mrs H 
told HSBC that being able to port the tracker rate was their priority  to the extent theyd 
have delayed buying the second property to achieve this. 
I should explain that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
On balance, I think its unlikely there was a discussion in which Mr and Mrs H were misled by 
HSBC (directly or by omission) about being able to port the tracker rate to the new property 
in the future. Its clear from Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage offer and HSBCs porting criteria that 
this isnt possible. Id expect the mortgage adviser to know this  or if not to check. It seems 
unlikely thered be no mention in the notes or advice report about porting if Mr and Mrs H 
had told the adviser they were seeking his advice about porting the mortgage, and that this 
was their priority. 
And given the importance Mr and Mrs H say they placed on being able to port the tracker 
rate, its reasonable to expect them to check their mortgage terms, to see if this was allowed. 
Had they done so, theyd have seen that it isnt. 
Overall, I dont think the available evidence shows that HSBC misled Mr and Mrs H. I think 
HSBC applied its porting criteria correctly, and in line with Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage offer. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require HSBC to apply the tracker 
rate to Mr and Mrs Hs new mortgage. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman