DRN-2077317
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed in processing a CHAPS transfer when he 
was completing on a house purchase. This meant costs were incurred through having to find 
alternative accommodation and delay the move, causing a worrying and stressful 
experience. 
What happened
Mr N has a current account with Lloyds and went to a branch to complete a CHAPS transfer 
to the solicitor when he was moving home. He was told this would take a few hours to go 
through. 
But, when the payment hadnt arrived by the end of the day, he had to book into a hotel. He 
called Lloyds several times to try and find out what was happening, and then had to return to 
the branch. He then found out that a mistake had been made and the transfer hadnt gone 
through. Although the documentation had been correctly completed, and identification was 
taken; an authorisation code hadnt been entered to make sure the payment was made the 
same day. It was processed the following day, but this wasnt in time to complete on the 
house purchase for that day either. So this eventually happened two days later than 
planned. 
Mr N complained that Lloyds mistake had caused a difficult and stressful time.
 
Lloyds apologised and accepted that a mistake had been made. It refunded the CHAPS fee 
of £30 Mr N had paid and offered to reimburse the related expenses totalling £1,031.75. This 
included hotel costs, fees for cancelling the removal company, parking, petrol and call costs. 
Lloyds also initially offered to pay £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused, and then later increased this offer to £400.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and felt Lloyds offer was in line with what 
we would ask it to pay considering the distress and inconvenience that had been suffered. 
So he thought Lloyds had put forward a fair outcome. 
However, Mr N asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate that the delays in the CHAPS transfer will have undoubtedly caused a 
significant amount of worry and upset. Moving home can be a stressful experience anyway, 
without the additional difficulties caused through the money transfer to buy the property not 
going through as expected.
 
And this had a knock-on effect of Mr N needing to put off the removal firm  incurring costs 
for doing so and needing to find alternative accommodation in a hotel for two nights, when 
he will have wanted to begin to settle into the new home.
Lloyds has accepted that a mistake was made and has explained what happened with the 
authorisation code. And it has looked to reimburse Mr N for the related expenses that were 
incurred through this mistake. 
I do appreciate that Mr N also got a puncture on his way to the hotel on the first night. I can 
understand that this will have added to what was already a difficult and upsetting day. But I 
dont think Lloyds should be required to reimburse the cost of a new tyre in these 
circumstances. I think the costs considered and the amount paid of £1,031.75 is reasonable 
to cover the additional and unexpected expenses incurred.
 
Lloyds has also reimbursed the £30 CHAPS transfer fee and offered to pay £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience the mistake caused.
 
Taking everything into account, and while I do appreciate that it wont make up for the 
worrying time this caused through the house move, I think that the reimbursement of costs 
and the £400, along with Lloyds apology, represents a fair resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Lloyds 
should pay Mr N £400, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman