DRN-3517299
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
All references to AWP P&C SA include the agents it has appointed to administer claims on
its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a travel insurance policy, provided by AWP. They travelled abroad on 1
March 2020 and were due to return to the UK on 31 March 2020.
On 23 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO)
advised all British travellers who were abroad to return to the UK due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19. On the same day, Mr and Mrs Hs airline notified them that their
return flight was cancelled.
Mr and Mrs H remained abroad beyond their original intended return date, until 18 April
2020, and made a claim with AWP for both unused and additional costs. Mr and Mrs H have
since received refunds for certain costs from other sources, so all that remains outstanding
is their claim for their additional flight and accommodation expenses. AWP said Mr and Mrs
H claim wasnt covered under their policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to AWP
before bringing the matter to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think AWP had
provided any information to show that it had assessed Mr and Mrs Hs claim correctly. She
therefore recommended that AWP reassess Mr and Mrs Hs claim. AWP didnt respond to
our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Hs complaint was referred to me as the final stage 
in our process. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in May 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when making my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
No insurance policy covers every situation and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of
risk it is prepared to accept in return for the payment of a premium. Based on my experience
of dealing with travel insurance complaints of this type, standard travel insurance policies
rarely cover situations where a policyholder is forced to remain abroad for longer than
originally intended. Certain travel insurers did (and do) offer cover for enforced stays abroad,
but this is generally an optional, additional extra for which an additional policy premium is
payable.
Ive accessed and attached a copy of terms and conditions of travel insurance provided by
AWP. This is the same brand of insurance that Mr and Mrs H held, and the terms and
conditions are dated January 2019. Section D of the policy, which Ive outlined in more detail
below, matches the screenshot which Mr and Mrs H have provided of Section D in the policy
they were given. On balance, I think its likely these terms and conditions  or a version
which was very similar in scope  outline the extent of AWPs obligations under its contract
with Mr and Mrs H.
Section D of these terms and conditions, entitled Cancellation or curtailment, say that AWP
will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled or curtailed for one of a list of specific, insured
reasons. But Mr and Mrs Hs trip was neither cancelled nor curtailed (cut short)  it was
extended. So, Section D of the policy doesnt cover the situation which Mr and Mrs H found
themselves in. In any event, Section D only covers unused costs, and not additional costs
which is what Mr and Mrs H are claiming for.
Ive reviewed the remaining sections of the cover provided by AWP, but I dont think Mr and
Mrs Hs claim meets the criteria for a payment to be made under any section of the policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H. I appreciate they didnt receive a response to their
complaint from AWP for quite some time, and AWP hasnt provided information requested by
this service about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. But these arent reasons upon which I can fairly
base a decision directing AWP to reassess or to pay a claim which I dont think is covered
under the policy which Mr and Mrs H held.
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs H replied with their comments, 
which Ive considered in full but summarised as follows:
their holiday was curtailed as they were unable to continue with their intended 
itinerary from 23 March 2020;
they were subject to quarantine under the orders of the chief medical officer in their 
destination country;
AWP failed to comply with its own complaint procedure timescales, ignored some of 
Mr and Mrs Hs correspondence and didnt engage with our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I entirely accept that part of Mr and Mrs Hs planned trip was interrupted. But their trip wasnt 
cut short in its entirety by their early return to the UK. Instead, the length of their overall trip 
was extended, and their policy doesnt cover costs associated with an enforced stay abroad. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr and Mrs Hs claim did fall under the Cancellation or 
curtailment section of the policy, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs H were under compulsory quarantine on the orders of a treating doctor. While I 
appreciate the country they were visiting declared a state of national emergency and 
imposed significant restrictions on day-to-day life, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr 
and Mrs H were totally confined to where they were staying  individuals were permitted to 
travel for necessities and to undertake safe recreational activities. I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to conclude that such a situation meant that Mr and Mrs H were in compulsory 
quarantine. 
Furthermore, even if I were to agree with Mr and Mrs Hs submissions on this point, 
additional costs arent covered under the Cancellation or curtailment section of their policy.
I can fully understand why Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with how AWP dealt with both their 
claim and their complaint. But, its not within my remit to punish a financial business for its actions. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide whether I 
think AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances by declining Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, and I dont think it did.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman