DRN-4308184
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) he paid when he redeemed 
his buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr W held his BTL mortgage with Clydesdale. In March 2021 he received a mortgage offer 
to move his mortgage onto a new preferential rate following advice given by an independent 
mortgage broker. The interest rate was fixed at 2.79% until 31 May 2023, with an ERC for 
that same period.
In August 2022 Mr W started to look into remortgaging with his broker as he was concerned 
about rising interest rates. He said it was too early to be able to arrange a new rate with 
Clydesdale so he arranged a new mortgage with a different lender, aware the new mortgage 
would need to complete before the ERC period ended with Clydesdale. 
Mr W has told us he delayed completion as long as he could, all the while keeping an eye on 
whether he was able to get an alternative competitive rate (either with Clydesdale or 
elsewhere) but finally had to complete on the new mortgage at the start of April 2023 as the 
new mortgage offer was due to expire. Mr W incurred an ERC of around £9,100 on his 
Clydesdale mortgage.
In the meantime, Mr W raised a complaint with Clydesdale, which wasnt upheld.
Our Investigator didnt think Clydesdale had done anything wrong. She said the ERC end 
date was clear in the mortgage offer and Mr W made a decision, having weighed up the 
costs of the ERC against the monthly payments, to pay the ERC to obtain the rate he 
wanted.
Mr W didnt agree, and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious Ive condensed the events of the complaint into rather less detail than the 
parties have presented them. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mr W feels very strongly about this, and I thank him for the thoroughness of 
his submissions. I wont detail everything that hes told us about his circumstances, however 
I can assure him that Ive read and understood everything and taken it all into account.
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr Ws mortgage was repaid, there 
was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be 
repaid if Mr W paid an ERC.
Im satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should 
have been readily understandable to Mr W; certainly, the information about the ERC was set 
out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr W knew  or at 
least should have known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid the mortgage on or 
before 31 May 2023.
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). 
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC, 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Clydesdale is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to 
it of Mr W ending his own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of 
early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
I appreciate that Mr W was very near to the end of the tie-in period and that the amount of 
the ERC appears out of proportion to the number of payments that were remaining under the 
fixed rate. But Im afraid that isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated, nor is the actual cost 
to Clydesdale of this individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Clydesdale is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Clydesdale doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
Mr W has told us he had no option but to remortgage due to his circumstances. Ive a great 
deal of sympathy for the position Mr W found himself in, but his situation wasnt unusual. 
Many customers were concerned about the sudden and sustained rate increases and 
wanted to end their existing rates early (thus incurring an ERC) so they could obtain a new 
rate as soon as possible. It would be highly unfair for Clydesdale to treat Mr W any 
differently from how it would treat any other customer that wanted to remortgage whilst there 
is an ERC on their mortgage.
Mr W has highlighted something hes seen on our website that says, as part of our 
considerations, we look at how the lender has applied the ERC, taking into account the 
customers personal situation, particularly if the customer has got money worries. But that is 
referring to a scenario such as perhaps a residential house sale where the borrower could no longer afford their mortgage, and there being insufficient equity to cover the ERC once 
the mortgage debt was repaid, so it could be a barrier to the customer being able to sell a 
property they can no longer afford to live in. It wouldnt be a customer wanting to get a lower 
rate for a BTL mortgage as otherwise the letting situation would no longer be financially 
viable. 
Mr W had the option to sell the property if the financial situation meant renting it out was no 
longer financially viable. So whilst there was obviously a financial impact on Mr W, he wasnt 
in the situation where this was his residential property and he was at risk of having his home 
repossessed, for example.
Having considered everything, I dont think Clydesdale acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter, and there are no grounds for me to order Clydesdale to refund the ERC (either in full 
or in part).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman