DRN-2862051
The complaint
Mr F complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) didnt auto-renew his
motor insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2019, Mr F took out a motor insurance policy with UKI which expired in July 2020.
Mr F believed his policy was set up with auto-renewal. He received a welcome letter at the
time which said:
" Were pleased to enclose everything youll need for the next twelve months, and to confirm
you've chosen to set your policy up on continuous authority. This removes the hassle of
renewing and ensures that you are never without cover. Your renewal premium will be taken
automatically from the credit card you have just used. If you choose not to renew, that's fine,
just let us know before your renewal date."
In July 2020, relying on what he was told, he assumed his policy had been renewed
automatically, and continued to drive his car. In October 2020, another car drove into the
rear of his car. Mr F called the police, and was shocked to be told he didnt have a current
insurance policy.
The police issued him with a notice that to avoid court proceedings for driving while
uninsured, he would have to accept a £300 fixed penalty, and for 6 penalty points to be
added to his driving licence.
Mr F complained to UKI; he said his policy should have renewed automatically. Initially, UKI
said Mr F had taken the policy out online, and had failed to tick the box for automatic
renewal to apply. It also said that In July 2020 it had sent him:
a renewal notice telling Mr F that his policy was about to expire and he needed to 
contact UKI if he wanted it to renew;
a further letter reminding him that he needed to contact UKI to renew; and
a final letter telling Mr F that his policy had now lapsed. 
UKI also pointed out the following provision in his policy wording:
14 Automatic renewal
When your policy is due for renewal, we may offer to renew it for you automatically using the
payment details you have already given, unless we or you have advised otherwise.
We will write to you at least 21 days before your policy ends and before taking any payment
to confirm your renewal premium and policy terms. If you do not want to renew your policy
you must call us before your renewal date to let us know.
It is not possible to offer automatic renewal in all circumstances, for example we may need
to discuss your renewal invite with you or your payment method may change. Your renewal
invite will advise if your policy will be automatically renewed or if you need to call us.
If we are unable to offer renewal terms we will write to you at your last known address to let
you know.
So UKI said it hadnt done anything wrong, and the reason Mr F wasnt insured was that he
failed to open and read the letters UKI sent him. It also thought he should have noticed his
account hadnt been debited with the renewal premium.
Mr F acknowledged he had received letters from UKI in July 2020. However, because he
believed his policy would renew automatically he didnt think they were important, and didnt
open them. He said he was also busy at the time running a business, and was buying
another house to let out.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said UKI had now
acknowledged that Mr F was signed up for auto-renewal, and this was shown in UKIs
computer records.
UKI argued that its policy wording set out above said that it may offer to renew a policy
automatically when it came up for renewal, but this wasnt guaranteed. The wording also
said it wasnt possible to offer auto-renewal in all circumstances. So Mr F shouldnt have
assumed his policy would renew automatically, and UKI was entitled to expect he would
read the letters it sent him.
The investigator said the policy document was a generic document that was sent to all policy
holders. However, the welcome letter sent to Mr F was addressed to him specifically. It
confirmed he had auto-renewal and he didnt need to worry about this.
In addition, the investigator said the letters shown to him as having been sent to Mr F in July
2020 were sample letters for a different part of UKIs business, so he couldnt be sure what
the letters Mr F received actually said.
While he agreed Mr F had a responsibility to open and read correspondence UKI sent him,
he could see why Mr F hadnt on this occasion; he was very busy at the time, and UKI had
told him he didnt need to worry about renewal, he would never be without cover, and his
payment would be taken automatically.
Mr F had since renewed his policy with UKI. The investigator recommended that UKI should
confirm cover for Mr Fs car from July 2020 until this renewal, and should provide him with a
letter confirming this. If Mr F chose to make a claim in respect of this period, UKI should
consider it in line with the policy terms.
If the matter resulted in court proceedings being taken against Mr F, the investigator said
further remedial action and/or compensation by UKI might be appropriate.
UKI responded to say, in summary, that:
in accordance with the policy terms, there was never any guarantee that all policies 
would automatically renew;
three separate letters were sent to Mr F in July 2020 telling him he needed to contact 
UKI if he wanted to renew his policy and, ultimately, that it had lapsed;
it was Mr Fs failure to read these letters that led to his policy not being renewed;Mr F should have noticed a full years renewal premium hadnt been debited to his 
bank account; and
UKI wasnt prepared to offer Mr F a letter of indemnity as it didnt think it had made 
any error. 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mr F and to UKI on 28 April 2021. In it I said that UKI 
relied on its policy terms to say that it had made it clear it couldnt offer automatic
renewal in all circumstances. So Mr F should have been on his guard at renewal time, and
should have taken care to read the letters it sent him. If he had, he would have known he
had to contact UKI to renew his policy.
Mr Fs evidence, which I accepted, was that it was his practice to take out motor insurance
polices which provided for automatic renewal. He made sure that this policy was set up in
this way. The welcome letter he received in July 2019 contained the wording set out
above, including the unqualified promise This removes the hassle of renewing and ensures
that you are never without cover.
I said that when at renewal time Mr F was busy with other matters, he relied on this promise 
and thought he didnt need to worry about contacting UKI to renew his policy  it was all 
taken care of. Like the investigator, I thought the promise contained in this letter addressed 
to Mr F overrode any lack of certainty in the policy wording, and Mr F was entitled to rely on 
it as he did.
Mr F had confirmed that he hadnt agreed to accept a £300 fixed penalty, and for 6 penalty
points to be added to his driving licence. The result was that the police were still considering
instituting court proceedings against him.
Mr F had also supplied a receipt for the £250 he had to pay to have his car released from the
police pound, and said he paid a further £300 for a recovery truck to get his car back from
the pound, plus his own travel expenses in this connection.
In the circumstances, I thought it was fair and reasonable that UKI should provide Mr F with 
a letter of indemnity to help him defend any potential prosecution for driving without 
insurance. The letter should also confirm cover for Mr Fs car from July 2020 until it was 
actually renewed. If Mr F chose to make any claim in respect of this period, I said UKI should 
consider it in line with the policy terms.
I thought UKI should reimburse the £250 release fee Mr F paid, and, subject to Mr F 
producing evidence of payment, the £300 recovery truck fee. If the renewal premium Mr F 
paid UKI after the non-renewal came to light was increased because of the non-renewal, UKI 
should refund the amount of this increase. UKI should also pay Mr F compensation of £250 
for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
If notwithstanding an indemnity letter being produced court proceedings for driving while
uninsured were still brought against Mr F, and/or he suffered a fine or other punishment, I 
said UKI should compensate Mr F for this. If the parties couldnt agree the amount or form of 
such compensation, I said either of them could refer that aspect to this service for us to 
make a decision on that point alone.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI said it had no further comments to make. Mr F said the police had proceeded with court action against him. Following my provisional 
decision this was presently adjourned pending my final decision being issued.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr F nor UKI has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think UKI should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my 
final decision below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order U K Insurance Limited
trading as Churchill to:
1. provide Mr F with a letter of indemnity to help him defend any potential prosecution 
for driving without insurance. The letter should also confirm cover for Mr Fs car from 
July 2020 until it was actually renewed;
2. consider any claim Mr F choses to make in respect of the period from July 2020 until 
actual renewal in line with the policy terms;
3. reimburse the £250 release fee Mr F paid, and, subject to Mr F producing evidence 
of payment, the £300 recovery truck fee;
4. refund the amount of any increase because of the non-renewal in the renewal 
premium Mr F paid UKI after the non-renewal came to light;
5. pay Mr F compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him; and
6. compensate Mr F further, as I have set out above, in the event that, notwithstanding 
an indemnity letter being produced, court proceedings for driving while uninsured are 
still brought against Mr F. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman