DRN-3396208
The complaint
Mr S and Mr V have complained that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined their 
request to port (transfer) their mortgage onto a new property. To settle the complaint, they 
would like Nationwide to reimburse the early repayment charge (ERC) they had to pay.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr S, with the consent of Mr V.
What happened
Mr S and Mr V had a mortgage with Nationwide, originally taken out in 2012. On 1 May 2020 
Mr S and Mr V took out a new mortgage product over a term of 12 years 7 months, with the 
first five years being at a fixed rate of 1.89%. The mortgage was part-repayment (£67,500) 
with the remaining £100,000 on interest-only, secured against a property valued at just over 
£1million. This was a residential property, although I understand part of it was used by Mr S 
for his business. If the mortgage was repaid during the initial fixed-rate period, an ERC 
would apply.
In September 2020 Mr S and Mr V contacted Nationwide about porting their mortgage onto 
another property (A). This was a flat over a commercial building. It didnt meet Nationwides 
lending criteria. 
A second property was found (B), but Nationwide said its valuer might require a fire safety 
certificate, due to cladding issues. Mr S and Mr V gave Nationwide details of a third property 
(C), and an appointment was made for them to see a mortgage adviser on 2 October 2020. 
A decision in principle was issued by Nationwide, but for a fourth property (D). 
A surveyor carried out an inspection of property D and Nationwide received the report on 19 
October 2020. The surveyor had concerns about the property and didnt think it was suitable 
for mortgage purposes. 
They completed the sale of their property on 21 October 2020, paying an ERC of about 
£8,000, and on the same day purchased the flat above the commercial premises (property 
A) for £326,500. 
On 12 November 2020 Mr S and Mr V confirmed to Nationwide they wouldnt be going 
ahead with their purchase of property D. They asked if Nationwide would lend on property C, 
which was £575,000. Initially there was some confusion over whether this was a freehold flat 
or not (it was leasehold, with a share of the freehold). However, Nationwide said it would 
lend on this property, subject to valuation and an appropriate fire safety form. 
However, the application was declined at the point of issuing a Decision in Principle, but on 
23 November 2020 Nationwide said it would reconsider it if further information was provided. 
This included payslips, bank statements, proof of deposit and proof of repayment vehicle for 
the interest-only element of the mortgage. Nationwide also noted property A had been 
purchased and that Mr S and Mr V intended to rent it out. Nationwide asked for details of the 
projected rental income.
Mr S and Mr V were unhappy about this. They thought Nationwide was trying to make things 
difficult for them. Mr S and Mr V couldnt see any problem with the transaction, given that 
theyd sold their property for over £1million and had sufficient funds available for the deposit. 
They didnt go ahead with their porting application and made a complaint to Nationwide.
Mr S and Mr V felt that Nationwide had mis-sold them the five-year fixed rate product by 
promising them it was portable. They were also unhappy about the porting process, the 
length of time Nationwide took to get back to them during the course of their application, and 
about the information Nationwide was asking for. They wanted a refund of the ERC.
Nationwide issued its final response on 18 January 2021. It didnt uphold the complaint 
about mis-sale, and said that porting a mortgage was always dependent on suitability of the 
property and lending criteria. Nationwide explained that the declined application in 
November 2020 may have been due to the previous mortgage not yet clearing from the 
credit reference agencies files, which is why further information was requested to enable 
Nationwide to consider an appeal. 
Nationwide acknowledged that Mr S and Mr V had found the process intrusive, but didnt 
think it had acted unreasonably. Nationwide paid compensation of £100, as it felt it could 
have supplied information more quickly about its lending criteria on flats.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr S and Mr V brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. They said that Nationwide had issued a mortgage offer to a 
potential interested buyer of the property A, when they had been told Nationwide wouldnt 
lend on a flat over commercial premises. Mr S thought Nationwides questions were intrusive 
and unnecessary, given their financial situation after the sale of their original property. There 
should have been no problem porting the mortgage. In the end, they decided to stay in 
property A, even though it isnt suitable for their needs.
An investigator looked at what had happened.
He reached the following conclusions:
the five-year fixed rate hadnt been mis-sold in 2020. This had been chosen online by 
Mr S and Mr V and there was no evidence Nationwide had given advice about it.
where circumstances had changed, Nationwide was entitled to ask for further 
information;
the information Nationwide was asking for wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances.
Consequently, the investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Mr S 
disagreed, saying the investigator was fabricating evidence. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 March 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr S or Mr V being identified.
Mis-sale of fixed rate product: Mr S says that Nationwide mis-sold him and Mr V the five-
year fixed-rate product in May 2020, on the basis that it was portable. However, this product 
was selected online by Mr S and Mr V, without any advice from Nationwide. The offer says 
that the product is portable, but that this is subject to Nationwides lending criteria at the 
time. 
Given this, Im not persuaded that Nationwide guaranteed the mortgage was portable, as 
this was always subject to lending criteria. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Porting application: Nationwide is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and I dont have 
any power to interfere with that. But what I must do is to ensure that Nationwide applies its 
criteria fairly.
Mr S and Mr V are unhappy that their application to port their mortgage to a new property 
was declined after it was initially approved by Nationwide in December 2019. They feel they 
have been treated very unfairly and caused a great deal of stress and inconvenience. 
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation and that I have to consider. These 
rules followed on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). The MMR led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. 
MMR rules have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to 
protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The FCA 
recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their mortgages 
might have difficulties with this if they passed the tests under the old rules, but not under the 
new rules. So the FCA introduced certain rules to address this. 
Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt have to carry 
out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage 
and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no changes to the 
terms of the mortgage that affect affordability. 
Nationwide didnt think property A was suitable for mortgage purposes, as it was over a 
commercial development. I note that this flat was part of a large building with two 
commercial units and several flats above. Planning permission was granted in August 2020 
for development of the building, with the creation of a new first-floor flat, and the other flats in 
the building being extended. 
I think its unlikely that by October 2020, when Mr S and Mr V bought this property, that this 
extensive work had been carried out. However, whether or not the property had been 
developed according to the plans approved by the local authority, Im satisfied Nationwide 
was entitled to determine that this property didnt meet its lending criteria in October 2020. 
Although Mr S and Mr V say that a potential purchaser was more recently offered a 
mortgage on the property by Nationwide, I can only take into consideration Nationwides 
actions in relation to Mr S and Mr V, not an unknown third party.Nationwide also said it would not lend on property D, which had structural issues, and 
Mr S and Mr V decided not to go ahead with that purchase.
Im satisfied the applications on properties A and D didnt go ahead due to the properties not 
meeting lending criteria, which is a decision Nationwide is allowed to make.
I can see there was some confusion in relation to whether property C was a freehold flat. 
This caused some delay in Nationwide confirming whether or not it would lend on it. I note 
that the application was declined at Decision in Principle stage due to credit scoring. I accept 
what Nationwide has said about this  that the previous mortgage might not have dropped 
from Mr S and Mr Vs credit files at that time. In the circumstances, it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to ask for further information so the underwriters could consider the application.
I appreciate Mr S and Mr V found the information Nationwide was asking for to be intrusive 
and unnecessary. But given that thered been a decline due to credit scoring, Im not 
persuaded Nationwide was unreasonable in asking for some further information in relation to 
affordability. 
Mr S disputes that his and Mr Vs circumstances had changed since theyd taken out the 
original mortgage or since theyd discussed porting the mortgage onto properties A and D. 
But at the time they wanted to apply for a mortgage on property C, Mr S and Mr V had 
already bought property A, and had had a decline on the credit score, for reasons which, at 
that time, werent clear.  There was also an increase in the loan-to-value ratio from about 
16% on the original mortgage to around 28% on the new mortgage. In the circumstances, 
and particularly given the automatic decline on credit scoring, I dont think it was 
unnecessary for Nationwide to ask for some further information in order to consider the 
application.
I cant second-guess what Nationwide would have decided, but it wasnt given the 
opportunity to consider whether or not to allow a port of the mortgage, because 
Mr S and Mr V chose not to proceed with a full application. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded that Nationwide is under any obligation to refund the ERC.
Ive not identified any significant delays in Nationwide dealing with the various enquiries and 
applications. But I do agree Nationwide could have been a bit clearer about its lending 
criteria, particularly around the issue of whether or not property D was a freehold flat when 
it was, in fact, a leasehold with a share of the freehold (which is not uncommon). Nationwide 
paid Mr S and Mr V £100 compensation for delays it had identified and I think this is fair. I 
dont require Nationwide to pay anything further.
Mr S is also unhappy at the way Nationwide dealt with the complaint about the porting 
application. However, complaint-handling is not a regulated activity. This means that I dont 
have any power to consider Mr Ss concerns about the way Nationwide dealt with his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman