DRN-3004339
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the delayed transfer of her ISA from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset
Management Limited, referred to as the business or the transferor, to a third-party
Business, referred to as the transferee.
She says that shes suffered financial loss as a result of the delays caused by the business.
What happened
In mid-July 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint.
Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress and
whether its reasonable in the circumstances.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say,
provisionally Im satisfied that the redress, in respect of the delays in transferring her cash is
broadly fair and reasonable. However, in this instance I think the business should pay Mrs C
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Cs strength of
feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support her complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mrs C and the business, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Looking at the chronology of events, it seems that in early February 2020, Mrs C instructed
the transferee to transfer her holdings with the business. The instructions were received on
12 February 2020.
It seems the request was processed on 18 February 2020, and on 19 February 2020 the
value was agreed by the transferee and a response sent, possibly the same day. Its not
clear when the response was received.
Im aware that in subsequent correspondence dated 11 June 2020 the business said that it
received a request to transfer all previous years subscription on 20 February 2020, and Mrs
C says the valuation of the previous years investment was agreed on 2 March 2020, but I
dont think that this is correct. Im aware that Mrs Cs husband has an identical complaint and
that his valuation was agreed on 2 March 2020, therefore I think the business and Mrs C
may be confused about the dates.
I understand because the ISA was invested in the Portfolio Plus, it couldnt be partially
encashed, in other words, it had to be all or nothing.
I note that because the £100 subscription (invested in the Portfolio Plus in August 2019)
formed part of the 2019/2020 (current) tax year subscription at the time the business didnt
have authority to transfer it. And because it couldnt perform a partial transfer, the business
requested the sale of Mrs Cs holdings, excluding the funds that the £100 was invested in.
Whilst I dont blame Mrs C for this, I also cant blame the business.
I acknowledge that Mrs C had intended to pay management fees with the £100, but the
money was paid into the ISA leading to the issues mentioned above. But in the
circumstances, I dont think the business behaved unreasonably. I dont think the business
had a choice but to follow the course of action that it did, because it couldnt perform partial
transfers, and it had no instructions to deal with the additional £100.
On 20 March 2020, the business sold some of Mrs Cs holdings, but didnt transfer the cash
which I think should have taken around five days. I note Mrs C says that the issue regarding
the £100 couldve been dealt with quickly but wasnt, I dont think the business disagrees. It
accepts that it couldve been more proactive in dealing with the situation, and thats why it
upheld the complaint and is offering compensation.
I note that on 12 June 2020, Mrs C subsequently requested the sale of all her holdings. I
note the instruction was placed on 25 June 2020 and dealt with the next day. At the time the
business was still waiting to receive the request to transfer the 2019-2020 subscription and
asked Mrs C to submit the request.
That notwithstanding, I note that the cash  except for the £100 subscription for the 2019-
2020 tax year  was eventually transferred to the transferee on 2 July, which is well over the
five or so days it ought to have taken.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the proposed
redress to pay interest on Mrs Cs cash is unreasonable in the circumstances. I think the
business quite rightly accepts that it shouldve transferred the cash sooner, even though
some of the delays were due to the £100 paid into the ISA which wasnt part of the original
transfer request made in February 2020.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that the proposed redress methodology places Mrs C
close to the position she wouldve been in but for the error. So, in the circumstances I think
the business should pay Mrs C interest  at 8% simple  on the money that she wouldve
had access to sooner, but for the delay.
In other words, interest between 25 March 2020 when the transfer ought to have taken
place, and 2 July 2020 when the transfer took place. However, in the circumstances I think
the business should pay Mrs C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
caused by this.
I appreciate what Mrs C says about financial loss. Im sure she already knows, that the value
of her investment is dependent on the stock market. The impact of the Covid-19 global
pandemic on the financial market is not something that Cofunds could control or predict. So,
I cant blame it for not being able to obtain a better price when the funds were sold.Im also mindful that Mrs C was notified as per the letter/email dated 18 February 2020, that
she could trade over the phone, and would only be charged online dealing charges. As this
was an execution only service, it wouldve been up to Mrs C to decide whether or not to
trade. I note by 6 July 2020 Mrs C still hadnt invested her money. Nevertheless, I agree that
the business shouldve transferred the cash sooner.
Despite what Mrs C now says about new investments, Im unable to safely say what she
wouldve done with the money. Ive seen no evidence of any instructions setting out what
should happen to the money. Its also not possible to prove any potential loss from failing to
open her new ISA when the markets were low. In other words, I simply cant award redress
on the basis of what she mightve done if shed received the money sooner.
Mrs C now accepts that the guidance about ISA transfers allows for 30 days, not 21 days as
she originally thought, for transfer and this includes the cash in her ISA. So, in the
circumstances, Im satisfied that the redress proposed by me reflects the business
wrongdoing.
Im mindful that the £100 for the 2019/2020 tax year subscription was duly transferred on 28
July, after the business received a request from the transferee.
I appreciate Mrs C will be very unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator, but Ive still not given her what she wants.
I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im
unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
Mrs C responded and said that she was happy with the uphold but disappointed with the 
level of compensation. Nevertheless, as this matter had been going on for over a year, she 
would accept the provisional decision.  
The business also responded and sought clarification about why I had issued a provisional 
decision awarding higher redress and compensation based on different dates.  
It seemed to me that the business wasnt objecting to the decision as such but wanted a 
better understanding of my redress and why  according to the business  it wasnt given an 
opportunity to respond.
I explained that so far as redress was concerned, in the circumstances I felt that Mrs C 
deserved an additional £50 compensation to better reflect the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. In other words, I didnt think what the business had offered in the 
circumstances was reasonable. 
In relation to the interest payment, I explained that I was correcting/clarifying the period in 
which I thought the 8% interest should be applied. 
Despite the business concerns, I explained that the whole point of referring a complaint to 
an ombudsman is that everything is considered with fresh eyes, and not by someone whose 
thoughts are already aligned with the investigator.
In the circumstances, given all the changes that I had made to the redress payment, I felt 
that a provisional decision was reasonable to allow both the business and Mrs C an 
opportunity to respond to my decision. I note the business said: Another concern is that the Final Decision has already been 
communicated to the client before HLAM had the opportunity to review the decision and 
respond, which was incorrect. 
I explained that only the provisional decision had been provided at this stage, to both Mrs C 
and the business, and the business still had an opportunity to respond to my provisional 
decision with any further points it wanted me to consider. 
I again asked if the business had any further points to make in relation to my provisional 
decision and that I would be most grateful if it could provide them within the time allocated.
Having considered my response the business said that it had nothing further to add. Whilst it 
was disappointed with my decision, to resolve matters it accepts my provisional decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the redress, in respect of the 
delays in transferring her cash is broadly fair and reasonable. However, in this instance I 
think the business should pay Mrs C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited must do the following:
Calculate and pay 8% interest on the £6,091.87 it held between 25 March 2020 
(when the funds shouldve been transferred) and 2 July 2020 when they were 
transferred.
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should calculate and pay redress to Mrs 
C as set out above. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman