DRN-3799175
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited held him at fault for an accident 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to change this to non-fault 
and repair his car. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in a collision with another car whilst on a roundabout. Advantage 
investigated the claim and held Mr D completely at fault. Mr D was unhappy with this as he 
thought the other driver hadnt given way to him as he should have done. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantage had reasonably considered the evidence and justified its decision to hold Mr D at 
fault. She thought that as Mr D was changing lanes, he had the responsibility to check that 
the lane he was entering was clear. 
Mr D replied that the other driver should have taken account of the traffic already on the 
island when he merged. Mr D said he was clearly signalling to change lane and the other 
driver should have taken notice. He said police colleagues thought he shouldnt be held at 
fault. Mr D asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr D feels frustrated that he has been held at fault when he is sure 
that the other driver caused the accident. He thought the other driver was in breach of the 
Highway Code. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr D the same as someone else in his position. 
Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr D to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr D has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
I can see that the evidence that Advantage had to consider was Mr Ds and the other drivers 
versions of events and Mr Ds photograph of the scene. Mr D also provided dashcam 
footage showing the incident. 
Mr D said he had had the footage reviewed by experienced policeman and they thought he 
wasnt at fault. But Mr D hasnt provided statements from these policemen. Whilst I dont 
doubt what Mr D says, we are an evidence-based service and so without substantiating 
evidence I cant reasonably consider these views further.  
Advantage considered the evidence and thought that the other driver was already 
established in their lane. It thought that as Mr D was changing lanes to move into a slip road, 
he should have made sure the lane was clear. It thought Mr D had driven into the other 
drivers path. Mr D had referred to the Highway Code rule 185, but Advantage thought the 
rule he cited referred to drivers entering a roundabout, not those already established on it. 
I can see from its file that Advantage thought a court wouldnt find that the other driver was in 
error. And so, after offering to settle the claim as 50/50 split liability, it admitted liability in full 
on Mr Ds behalf. I think it did this after reasonably considering the evidence available and I 
think this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that 
Advantage has done anything wrong. 
Advantage settled the claim on a without prejudice basis, so Mr D is free to pursue the 
matter further at his own cost if he so wishes. I can also see that Mr D has been in contact 
with Advantage about the repairs he has made to his car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman