DRN-3009217
The complaint
Miss C complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Miss C was given two loans by TFS in January and October 2018. Miss C initially borrowed 
£3,000 that she agreed to repay in 36 monthly instalments. But nine months later she 
refinanced that loan, by borrowing £4,000 to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments. Miss C 
used part of the proceeds of the loan to repay her earlier borrowing, taking an additional 
capital sum with the remaining proceeds. A balance remained unpaid on the loan when 
Miss C made her complaint.
Miss Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
results of TFSs checks suggested that Miss C was facing problems managing her money. 
So he didnt think TFS should have agreed to provide either loan. He asked TFS to pay 
Miss C some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Miss C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave these loans to Miss C required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice 
this meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Miss C undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Miss C.
TFS gathered some information from Miss C before it agreed each loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file to assess 
how much she was paying to other creditors, and how she had managed credit in the past.
Miss C was entering into significant commitments with TFS. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for periods of three and five years. So I think it was right that TFS 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Cs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks TFS did before 
agreeing each loan were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that the checks done by TFS 
were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.
When Miss C applied for the first loan she told TFS that she earned £1,700 each month. But, 
after completing its initial checks, TFS concluded that Miss C didnt have sufficient 
disposable income to be able to afford the repayments on the loan. But Miss C told TFS that 
she also earned overtime, amounting to around £400 per month. TFS says it verified that 
additional income through an online checking service. So it based its checks on Miss Cs 
application on a revised income of £2,100 per month.
I think that judgement is questionable. I havent seen anything that makes me think TFS was 
given any assurance that Miss Cs overtime was likely to be guaranteed indefinitely. I think 
the very nature of overtime payments is that they can fluctuate given the needs of an 
employer. And since Miss C needed to make repayments on the loan for a period of three 
years, TFS should have been very concerned about whether the overtime would continue 
unreduced for that length of time.
The results that TFS received from its credit check at the time of the first loan were also 
concerning. The credit check showed that Miss C was making extensive use of other credit 
facilities  she had six separate unsecured loans, and a further six credit or store card 
accounts. Each of her credit card accounts were at, or above, their not unsubstantial limits. 
Overall Miss C was making use of unsecured credit totalling over £35,000.Even allowing for the larger salary that TFS recorded, Miss Cs credit repayments, after 
taking the first loan, would amount to more than 65% of her income. To my mind that is an 
unsustainable situation and clear evidence that Miss C was over-reliant on credit. I dont 
think it was reasonable for TFS to give this loan to Miss C when it should have been 
apparent that she was facing significant problems managing her money.
Just over 9 months into a three-year loan term Miss C returned to TFS to ask for some 
further borrowing. And she enabled this by refinancing her earlier loan and increasing the 
repayment period from three to five years. Although that meant her monthly repayment 
remained broadly the same, she was committed to making that repayment for a far longer 
period.
At the time of this application Miss C told TFS that she was earning £1,800 per month. I think 
that level of income further underlines the concerns that I expressed earlier over the income 
figure TFS used when agreeing the first loan. But since Miss Cs credit expenditure had 
fallen slightly TFS concluded that Miss C had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan 
at the lower level of income.
But although the results of the credit check showed that Miss Cs indebtedness had fallen to 
around £27,000 it doesnt seem to me that reduction was anywhere near large enough for 
TFS to conclude that her finances were back on track. Based on the information TFS used 
when agreeing the loan Miss C would now be using almost 70% of her income to repay her 
creditors. As before I consider that to be an unsustainable situation. I dont think that it was 
reasonable for TFS to give this loan to Miss C either.
So, in summary, I think the results of TFSs checks should have led the lender to conclude it 
was unlikely that Miss C would be able to repay either loan in a sustainable manner. So 
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Miss C on either occasion, and so it needs to 
pay her some compensation.
  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to give either loan to Miss C. So TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Miss C paid on the first loan. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the second loan and treat any 
payments Miss C has made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Miss Cs second loan account as Ive directed results in Miss C 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then TFS 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
If reworking Miss Cs second loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then TFS can use the total refund for the first loan (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind TFS that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss Cremove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to both 
loans
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman