DRN-2831004
The complaint
Mr A complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) handled his motor insurance claim 
unfairly following a road traffic accident.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
=What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I appreciate that Mr A disputes liability for the road traffic incident he was involved in. 
But the terms and conditions allow the insurer to either defend or settle claims based 
on how they see fit. That is the insurers right of subrogation under the insurance 
contract, and they do not need the policyholders authorisation or consent in order to 
defend or admit liability the claim. 
I understand Mr A doesnt feel hes had a reasonable opportunity to provide his 
version of events. But I can see that he did complete an accident report form for 
Covea on 5 November 2020, where he provided a signed account of the accident in 
line with his version of events. So, I dont think the insurer had any cause to contact 
him again for any further input, and Im not satisfied he was ultimately prevented from 
telling his side of the story. 
In the circumstances, I do not consider Coveas decision to settle the claim was 
unreasonable based on the evidence they had. The insurer had been provided with a 
statement from Mr A about the accident, as well as the testimony of an independent 
witness, who confirmed that it was Mr As car that crashed into the third party as he 
did not stop at the give way and approached the main road at speed and recklessly 
causing [sic] the accident. This supported the third partys version of events, so Im 
not persuaded it was unreasonable for the insurer to admit liability in these 
circumstances. I therefore dont think its unfair for this to have had an impact on his 
no claims bonus. Mr A also doesnt think its fair that he has had to pay his excess. 
However, the excess would have always been payable under the policy terms and 
conditions, whether or not he was liable for the accident. 
I understand Mr A feels that Covea had taken no action on his claim until he received 
a court summons. But it appears that the summons was issued directly to Mr A 
without the insurers knowledge, while they were still disputing liability with the third-
partys solicitor. I can also see that Covea sorted the matter after theyd been 
informed about the court summons. I appreciate there was a period of around 3 
months where Mr A had not heard from them, but this was the period where Covea 
said it was reviewing evidence and discussing liability with the third-partys solicitors. 
Such matters can take time when liability is being disputed by both parties to an 
accident, but I can see that the insurer has offered £50 compensation for their lack of 
communication. And while I acknowledge that Covea couldve done more to keep 
Mr A updated, overall, Im not persuaded that any further award of compensation is 
warranted in the circumstances, so I will not be asking them to take any further 
action. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, who clearly feels strongly about his 
complaint. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Covea have acted unfairly, or 
that they need to do anything further. 
My final decision
Covea Insurance plc have made an offer to pay a total of £50.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Covea should pay Mr A (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr A should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr A and Covea as to whether the £50 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman