DRN-2661628
The complaint
Mr Js complaint concerns two issues relating to his account with Interactive Investor 
Services Limited (IIS). Hes unhappy that a system error causes the account balance to be 
displayed in a confusing manner. And further, that Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) tax 
credits are not paid out automatically to his bank account in the same way as dividends.
What happened
Our investigator considered that Mr Js complaint should be upheld in part. 
IIS acknowledged that an IT issue  which causes entries to be inverted on the accounts 
running balance and debits incorrectly showing before credits  had impacted accounts such 
as Mr Js, which had been transferred to IIS from another provider in 2019. 
It had attempted a fix to put this right, but it hadnt worked for some accounts, such as 
Mr Js, and it was still trying to correct the issue. The investigator acknowledged that this 
was frustrating for Mr J, but she accepted that IIS was actively trying to put it right. She 
noted that, despite the issue, Mr J was still able to access information about his account and 
the problem hadnt led to him incurring any financial loss. She felt that a payment of a further 
£50 that IIS offered  in addition to an earlier credit of some monthly service charges  was 
fair in the circumstances.
In respect of the tax credits not being paid out as income, the investigator noted that IIS 
distinguished the credits from dividends and other income payments. She said that although 
Mr Js previous provider had paid out the credits automatically to his bank account in the 
same way as dividends, she wasnt able to ask IIS to operate in the same way. Although she 
could understand why it would be easier and more practical for Mr J if the account did pay 
the tax credits out, she didnt feel that IIS was doing anything wrong by not doing so. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view. He wasnt confident that IIS would act to fix the 
balance issue. And he didnt accept that it was reasonable for IIS to distinguish the tax 
credits from dividends. He felt that by doing so it was creating unnecessary inconvenience 
as he was left having to check his account for the credits and then request manual 
withdrawals.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters been referred to 
me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I recognise that the way in which the running account balance currently records debits 
before credits is potentially confusing and can lead to misleading negative balances 
showing. But Im satisfied that IIS is trying to put this right and while it continues to do so, as 
Mr J is aware of the issue, hes able to take it into account when viewing his transactions 
and make appropriate adjustments for it. This is not ideal, but it doesnt create any financial 
loss for Mr J. I therefore think that the offers IIS has made so far to compensate for the 
inconvenience created by the issue are fair in the circumstances.
In respect of the REIT tax credits, again, I can see that this issue will be frustrating for Mr J, 
particularly if his previous provider treated the credits in a way that was more suitable for his 
requirements. 
But I dont think IIS is doing anything wrong in treating the tax credits as it does. Theres no 
requirement that it treat them as income and pay them out in the same way as dividends. I 
understand Mr Js point that they are effectively part of the income paid to him as a result of 
his investment in the REITs. But they are distinct from the dividends, and I dont think I can 
reasonable direct IIS to alter its systems to treat them differently. Particularly not on the 
basis that another provider may have chosen to do things differently. 
Again, there is a fairly straightforward workaround to the issue. I accept it involves a manual 
intervention on Mr Js part that wasnt necessary before. But thats simply a result of IIS 
choosing to operate its account as it does, which its entitled to, not a result of it acting 
incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct 
Interactive Investor Services Limited to pay Mr J a further £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman