DRN-2489180
The complaint
Miss J complains about the way Lloyds Bank Plc closed her current account. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold Miss Js complaint. 
I said: 
What happened
Miss J had two accounts with Lloyds Bank, both had overdrafts. On 29 April 2019 Lloyds 
closed Miss Js account ending 6360 but it left her other account, ending 3068, open.
However, the account ending 3068s balance was over the agreed overdraft limit and no 
payments were being made to reduce it. Lloyds contacted Miss J about the debt and then 
took the decision to close the account. Lloyds says it should have taken the decision to 
close Miss Js account ending 3068 when it closed her other account, on 29 April 2019.
Miss J called Lloyds in November 2019 on several occasions and partially completed 
some income and expenditure assessments. After several attempts, Lloyds call handler 
agreed to set up a payment plan for Miss J to repay £45 a month to avoid a default and 
account closure. But Lloyds later decided that the account should have closed on 29 April 
2019.
Miss J complained and Lloyds agreed it had made some errors. But Lloyds said the correct 
position should have been to close and default the account ending 3068 on 29 April 2019. 
Lloyds said the decision to leave the account ending 3068 open was wrong and 
apologised, backdated the default to 29 April 2019 and paid Miss J £75.
Miss J referred the complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He 
thought Lloyds had acted fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss J asked to appeal, 
so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided - and why
Its clear that this situation has been very distressing for Miss J and the length of time the 
problems have gone on for has impacted that. Im very sorry to disappoint Miss J but Im 
going to begin by saying that I think Lloyds decision to close the second account, ending 
3068, was reasonable in the circumstances. I know my decision will feel harsh as I agree 
the service provided has been poor, but Im satisfied Lloyds had grounds to close the 
account in question.
Lloyds wrote to Miss J about account ending 3068 in February 2019 to say that she 
needed to reduce the outstanding balance to avoid it being closed. The account in 
question had been overdrawn for some time and Lloyds took the necessary steps to 
contact Miss J about it and request she repay the amount owed.
Ive looked at Lloyds contact notes and can see Miss J has discussed options to repay 
the debt at various points. It was on 15 November 2019 that Miss J gave income and 
expenditure information that indicated she could afford to make repayments. But by that 
point Lloyds had already taken the decision to close her account.
I appreciate Miss J wanted to avoid the impact a default would have on her credit file. But I 
think its reasonably clear that the account balance wasnt being repaid and the account 
itself wasnt being used. The terms of Miss Js bank account allow Lloyds to close it after 
giving her warning and Im satisfied Lloyds has done that.
Lloyds says it should have taken the decision to close both accounts at the same time on 
29 April 2019 and I agree that would have been a reasonable approach. So I think Lloyds 
decision to back date the default for account ending 3068 to match that date is a fair 
approach.
Lloyds has also refunded the interest Miss J incurred as a result of her account 
remaining open so there hasnt been a financial loss to her.
Lloyds sent Miss J a cheque for £75 because of the delay in closing her account but I 
dont think that settlement is fair. Lloyds has made a number of errors that have impacted 
Miss J. It delayed closing Miss Js account ending 3068 which meant she had another six 
months of being contacted by its collections teams. As Lloyds has pointed out, the delay 
meant Miss Js credit file didnt accurately reflect how her account was managed which 
meant it had to be corrected.
In addition, looking at Lloyds collections notes, I can see that the events of 15 November 
2019 were particularly upsetting for Miss J. She was repeatedly asked to complete 
income and expenditure assessments. The notes show that Miss J told Lloyds how 
stressful that was for her. The calls kept getting disconnected. I dont know who ended 
those calls, but I note Miss J rang straight back to continue her discussions. After several 
attempts, a full income and expenditure assessment was completed and a payment plan 
was agreed. Miss J was told her account would remain open and that she wouldnt 
receive a default. But the decision to default her account had already been taken, so it 
wasn't necessary for Miss J to complete what was clearly an upsetting income and 
expenditure assessment. I can see how disappointed Miss J was to find out the agreed 
payment arrangement wouldn't go ahead.
Ive noted Miss Js comments about how her calls were handled and that she found 
Lloyds staff to be very difficult. I think that is, in part, indicative of the situation as a 
whole. But I do agree that the service Lloyds provided was poor at times.
I need to explain that the error here was Lloyds asking to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment to see if a payment arrangement was possible. Its clear from 
the notes Ive seen that the decision to close Miss Js account had already been taken. I 
cant say that Lloyds was wrong to close Miss Js account, refund interest and report a 
default from 29 April 2019. But I dont agree that the £75 Lloyds sent to Miss J fairly 
resolves the complaint.
Ive carefully considered how to fairly resolve this complaint. For the reasons Ive given 
above, Im not going to tell Lloyds to reopen Miss Js account or remove the default from 
her credit file. But I do think the settlement of £75 should be increased to £200 to take the 
way Miss Js account was handled and the distress and inconvenience Lloyds caused into
account. In my view, £200 more fairly reflects the impact of Lloyds errors on Miss J and thedistress and inconvenience caused.
I invited Miss J and Lloyds to respond with any further comments they had. 
Miss J responded and told us the account ending 3068 had been closed but repaid in full so 
no default was registered on her credit file. Miss J also sent us information from her credit 
file. Lloyds confirmed Miss J had repaid the outstanding balance for the account ending 
3068 in full and that no default was applied. Lloyds agreed to increase the compensation 
award from £75 to £200. 
Miss J also said her complaint related to Lloyds earlier decision to close and default her 
student account ending 3068. Miss J said she felt Lloyds action surrounding the closure of 
her student account were unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss J for the level of detail shes included in her responses and patience 
whilst weve obtained further information. I havent responded to every point Miss J has 
made but have considered all the comments and information she has provided. My decision 
focuses on what I feel are the key events and issues concerning Miss Js complaint  an 
approach that is in line with the informal nature of this service. And, as Ive set out below, a 
lot of Miss Js comments relate to the account ending 6360  which wasnt the subject of the 
complaint referred to us. 
Miss J and Lloyds have both confirmed that the balance due for the current account ending 
3068 was repaid in full which meant no default was reported. And Miss J has sent details 
from her credit file that shows there is no default in relation to account ending 3068 showing.
In response to my provisional decision, Miss J told us that her complaint relates the 
circumstances surrounding the closure of her account ending 6360 in April 2019, not the 
current account ending 3068. But that isnt in line with the information she sent us or the 
original complaint we were asked to investigate. Ive reviewed all the information Miss J and 
Lloyds have sent us in relation to this complaint. Whilst I can see we have been given 
information about Miss Js other account ending 6360, the complaint referred to us on 3 
December 2019 related to Lloyds decision to close the account ending 3068. 
As a result, the investigators review and findings related to Miss Js account ending 3068. 
My provisional decision also related to the account ending 3068. I didnt make a finding 
about whether Lloyds was right to close Miss Js student account ending 6360 because that 
wasnt the subject of the complaint referred to us. 
I also think its reasonable to note that the final response Miss J sent us concerned Lloyds 
decision to close Miss Js account ending 3068 and that her discussion with us while 
referring her complaint was about that issue. Lloyds issued a separate final response about 
the student account ending 6360, which wasnt referred to this service. 
As this investigation and my provisional decision relate to the account ending 3068 and the 
circumstances of its closure, I havent commented on what happened when the account 
ending 6360 was closed. As Lloyds has responded to that complaint separately, we can 
arrange for another case to be set up and considered for the account ending 6360. But this 
decision relates to Lloyds actions in relation to the account ending 3068. I can see Miss J has experienced some very difficult times and I remain of the view that 
Lloyds actions in the lead up to its decision to close her account ending 3068 were unfair, 
for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision. I still think Lloyds carried out 
unnecessary collections activity when it agreed a payment plan with Miss J in November 
2019 because is had already taken the decision to close the account. And I still think £200 
more fairly reflects the impact of the service Lloyds provided and delay in closing Miss Js 
account ending 3068.  
As Ive said above, if Miss J wants us to look into her complaint about the way Lloyds closed 
her account ending 6360 she has the option to contact the investigator to set up a new case. 
But, based on all the available information, I havent been persuaded to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision regarding the account ending 3068. I still 
think the fairest approach is to uphold Miss Js complaint and direct Lloyds to pay her a total 
of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Miss J £200, 
less any compensation already paid.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman