DRN-3520536
The complaint
Miss E complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc unfairly terminated a conditional 
sale agreement and that due to the amount she had paid, later repossessed the car 
without the required court order.
What happened
In May 2016 Miss E entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The total credit amount borrowed by Miss E under the agreement was £20,442.94 which 
was to be paid back via 48 monthly payments of £316.43 and one final payment in the 49th 
month of £5,254.30.
Unfortunately, Miss E struggled to make the repayments and in December 2017 
Santander issued a default notice as the arrears had built up. Although Miss E was able 
to clear these arrears in January 2018 and so satisfy the default notice, she then missed 
the following monthly payments and a new default notice was issued. Miss E then paid 
around half the arrears that were outstanding in March 2018 but as there was still an 
amount outstanding Santander took the decision to terminate the agreement. It also took 
steps to start the process to repossess the car.
In May 2018 Miss E complained to Santander that it had unfairly terminated the 
agreement and said that it would need a court order to repossess the car as she had 
paid more than a third of the amount borrowed under the agreement.
Santander didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. It said that she hadnt kept to numerous 
payment arrangements during the life of the agreement and the account had fallen again 
into arrears in February 2018. It also disagreed she had paid one third of the contractual 
payments and said it was within its rights to now repossess the car.
Miss E complained to this service. An ombudsman fully reviewed Miss Es complaint and 
issued their final decision in July 2019. The ombudsman didnt uphold Miss Es complaint 
and said they were satisfied that Santander had acted fairly and in line with the 
agreements terms and conditions when terminating the agreement. They also said that 
Miss Es last payment under the agreement had been in March 2018 and that the total she 
had paid amounted to £6,512.38. This amount they said was less than one third of the 
total amount payable under the agreement. The ombudsman said they disagreed with 
Miss E that Santander required a court order to repossess the car.
Following this services decision, there were then delays in collecting the car from Miss E. 
Santander says it had difficulty making contact with Miss E and there were also further 
complications caused by the pandemic. Miss E had the car in her possession until 
September 2020 when it was finally repossessed by Santander.
Following the car being removed Miss E complained to Santander about its decision to 
terminate the agreement, its handling of the arrears and disputed that it was entitled to 
repossess the car without a court order. Santander didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. It 
said it had acted in line with the agreements terms and conditions when terminating the 
agreement. Santander also said that although Miss E had provided part of a statement 
showing she had paid £7,101.67 towards this account this figure didnt actually accurately 
reflect the payments shed made to the agreement. It said Miss E had actually paid less 
than one third. Santander said there was, therefore, no requirement for it to apply for a 
court order to take the car back and that the repossession of the car had been valid.
In October 2020 Miss E made a second complaint to this service that Santander had 
unfairly terminated the agreement and that it had no right to repossess the car without a 
court order.
In November 2020 Santander was granted by the County Court a Delivery of Goods 
Order against Miss E for the car together with an order for £493 costs. Miss E queried 
whether this order had been obtained legitimately.
The car was eventually sold at auction and the price it fetched was credited to the 
outstanding balance on Miss Es account. The balance on Miss Es account now stands 
at £13,076.89.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Es complaint should be dismissed. She said that 
an ombudsman had already decided that the termination of the agreement had been fair 
and that as Miss E hadnt paid one third of the total amount payable under the agreement 
it was entitled to repossess the car without a court order. This meant that those issues had 
been dealt with by this service and couldnt now be revisited.
Our investigator said that although the court order had been issued after the car had been 
repossessed, the court had the power to provide retrospective orders. She also said that 
this service wasnt able to overturn or challenge a court order and that, in any event, the 
final decision by the ombudsman in July 2019, had found there was no requirement for a 
court order. The investigator said this service couldnt take Miss Es complaint any further.
Miss E disagreed with our investigators view. She said she was going to challenge the 
court order as she believed the court hadnt been provided with the correct information 
about the amount shed paid towards the car. Miss E said that a new payment agreement 
had been reached with Santander in January 2018 and that she had paid more than the 
statements from Santander had set out. Miss E said that it was important to listen to the 
calls she had with Santander after the car had been repossessed.
As Miss E disagreed with the view of our investigator the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision because I looked at some new things raised by Miss E which 
she hadnt raised with the investigator. My provisional view was along the following lines.
Miss Es complaint covered a period of around three years. Id also seen that part of her 
complaint had already been considered by this service in July 2019 though she had 
raised potentially new evidence in respect of that as well as the subsequent events.
Events up to July 2019:
The rules governing our service and what we can and cant consider are set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These rules are known as the DISP rules. These rules 
also explain that if the ombudsman service believes that the particular circumstances of a 
complaint make it appropriate to do so, we may decline to consider its merits. This is 
known as a dismissal.DISP 3.3.4A says; The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the 
Ombudsman considers that:  (5) dealing with such a type of complaint would 
otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
DISP 3.3.4B says; Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair 
the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:  (3) where the 
subject matter of the complaint has previously been considered or excluded under the 
Financial Ombudsman Service (unless material new evidence which the Ombudsman 
considers likely to affect the outcome has subsequently become available to the 
complainant).
Miss E said that this was a new complaint because of the events around and after the car 
had been repossessed by Santander in September 2020. However, I was afraid I 
disagreed that the whole of her complaint was new, and I set out why.
Miss Es original complaint to this service had concerned the decision by Santander to 
terminate the credit agreement and seek repossession of the car in March 2018. Miss E 
had disagreed that Santander could take the car back without a court order. Id seen that 
this complaint had been fully considered by an ombudsman who had issued their final 
decision in July 2019. This decision set out the ombudsmans reasons for their findings 
which included that Miss E had not paid one third of the total payments under the 
agreement and that therefore no court order had been required. It was noted in the 
decision that the last payment made by Miss E towards this account was in March 2018.
Miss E said that in January 2018 Santander had agreed a new payment plan with her 
and so terminating the agreement in March 2018 had been unfair. However, Id seen that 
the ombudsman who dealt with her original complaint had set out in their findings about 
what was more likely than not agreed during various calls between Miss E and 
Santander in December 2017 and January 2018. I hadnt seen any new evidence that 
would lead me to believe that the notes of the calls made by Santander and seen by the 
ombudsman were in any way inaccurate or had missing information. I was satisfied that 
the fairness of terminating the agreement had been fully reviewed by the ombudsman in 
July 2019.
I appreciated that Miss E felt strongly that she had paid more than one third under the 
agreement and she was relying on a statement that she said supported this. Id looked 
at this statement to see if this was new evidence that hadnt been before the 
ombudsman in July 2019 when they had made their finding that she hadnt paid a third 
of the total payments due for the car. 
Looking at this statement, I thought Miss E might have misunderstood how the total 
payment figure had been calculated. This statement showed Miss E had made 
payments in total equalling £7,101.67. But this payment figure had actually included 
direct debit payments that although had been taken then went unpaid and so were 
debited back to the outstanding balance. I didnt think this was an unusual way of 
recording direct debit payments that werent then cleared by a bank, but I could 
appreciate how Miss E had been mistaken as to the amount she had paid. On the 
statement the unpaid direct debits were shown as a credit and then later as a debit, 
meaning Miss E hadnt actually paid and cleared £7,101.67 from the credit amount 
borrowed. From the figures on that statement, I could see Miss E had paid a total of 
£6,012.38 plus a £500 deposit which was the same amount as found by the ombudsman 
in their decision of July 2019.Id also seen that Miss E hadnt made any further payments for the car since March 2018 
so the amount she had actually paid was unchanged since the ombudsmans decision in 
July 2019. The reason that the outstanding amount on Miss Es account had now reduced 
from £14,430.56 to £13,076.86 was because the car had been sold at auction and those 
proceeds had been credited back. The outstanding amount also included the costs 
awarded by the County Court when granting the Return of Goods Order. I was therefore 
satisfied that there wasnt any new evidence about the amount Miss E had paid for the car 
before the agreement was terminated.
I therefore thought that Miss Es complaint about Santander acting unfairly in 
terminating her agreement in March 2018 because it had agreed a new payment plan 
with her, and that it had had no right to seek repossession of the car without a court 
order was a duplicate of the complaint that had been decided in July 2019. I therefore 
intended to dismiss those matters.
Events after July 2019:
Id seen the car had been finally repossessed from Miss E in September 2020 so there 
had been a considerable delay in Santander taking action to retrieve the car. I understood 
that some of this delay had been due to the pandemic. And I appreciated this might have 
led Miss E to hope there would be a different outcome to losing the car, but she knew the 
agreement had been terminated and that Santander had wanted to repossess the car. I 
also thought it was reasonable to say Miss E should have been aware the situation with 
the car was unchanged from March 2018. Her complaint to this service hadnt been 
upheld and she hadnt made any further payments. So, I didnt think I could reasonably 
say that Miss E had been given an expectation that she could keep the car. There had 
been no discussion with Santander after July 2019 about her making further payments or 
that it wouldnt seek to have the car returned to it.
When looking at the impact of the delay in repossessing the car on Miss E, I thought it 
was fair that I took into account that throughout that period Miss E had been able to 
make full use of the car.
Id seen Miss E had been very upset when the car had been finally taken back and she 
had expressed unhappiness that she had paid for maintenance, repairs and an MOT in 
that time only to then have the car repossessed. But as the car was in her possession then 
I thought it was fair she should have been responsible for its upkeep as she was able to 
make full use of it. She also hadnt been making any payments to Santander for it. In these 
circumstances I wasnt intending to ask Santander to reimburse Miss E any of the costs 
she had incurred in maintaining and running the car.
Miss E had queried the court order and whether it had been obtained using incorrect 
information. Id looked at the court papers and I couldnt see that any information had been 
inaccurate. Id also seen that a copy of the statement that Miss E had been relying on to 
show shed paid more than a third had been provided. As explained by our investigator, 
this service cant overturn a court order and Miss E would need to challenge this at court if 
she wished to do so. 
Santander said it had obtained the court order as a belt and braces because of the delay 
in it being able to repossess the car. It said it had struggled to make any contact with Miss 
E. I thought that was a matter for Santander and as this is a court order, I wasnt able to 
comment on that further.
Miss E had been anxious that I listen to a number of calls she had with Santander after 
the car was repossessed. But I hadnt done so, as I wasnt persuaded their contents would change my view as to any appropriate settlement for Miss E should I find that 
Santander had acted unfairly or unreasonably during those calls. This service had already 
said that Santander hadnt acted unfairly in terminating the agreement and that it was 
entitled to seek repossession of the car and I wasnt going behind that.
I appreciated Miss E had found the actual repossession of the car distressing as she said 
it had been unexpected. Id also seen that following the repossession there had been 
numerous calls between Miss E and agents of Santander. I appreciated these calls may 
have caused frustration and/or upset to Miss E. They may also have possibly raised her 
expectations that something could have been sorted out when this wasnt actually the 
case. However, in light of how long Miss E had use of the car, I didnt think it would be 
appropriate to award her compensation. The delay in repossessing the car and the upset 
this had caused Miss E, was, I thought, more than offset by her being able to continue to 
use the car throughout this period.
So, although I appreciate this would be of disappointment to Miss E, I was intending to 
dismiss parts of this complaint and not uphold the other parts.
Miss E strongly disagrees with my provisional decision. She says it is important that I 
look at the emails and listen to the calls that were between her and Santander. She 
says Santander agreed it shouldnt have collected the car. She also says she paid 
more for the car. Miss E says Santander didnt have the right to obtain the court order 
after it had collected the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss E is disappointed at my provisional view and feels strongly that 
Santander has acted incorrectly in repossessing the car in that way that it did, but although I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to her, I disagree.
I havent seen any evidence that Miss E has paid more for the car than as set out above. So, 
I am still satisfied there isnt any new evidence that the ombudsman who had decided her 
first complaint in July 2019 wasnt aware of when reaching their conclusions. 
Miss E has raised the importance of the phone calls between herself and Santander, but Im 
not persuaded I need to listen to those calls. Thats because I think the formal statements 
that have been provided set out the amount that has been paid accurately. And even if 
something contradictory had been said on the phone to Miss E, I wouldnt give a phone 
conversation more weight than the documentation that has been provided. 
So, Im still satisfied that Miss Es complaint that Santander unfairly terminated the 
conditional sale agreement in March 2018 is a duplicate of her earlier complaint to this 
service. And I am dismissing this part of her complaint in line with DISP 3.3.4A and 4B for 
the reasons set out above.
I am also dismissing Miss Es complaint that Santander wasnt entitled to repossess the car 
without a court order. This is a duplicate of her earlier complaint to this service which was 
fully considered in July 2019 by an ombudsman. 
I am dismissing Miss Es complaint that Santander had obtained a return of goods order 
unlawfully. As set out above, Ive seen no evidence that the information provided to the court 
was inaccurate. This service has no power to overturn a court decision and Miss E will need to challenge this at court if she wishes to do so.
I appreciate Miss Es feels that that Santander provided her with conflicting advice and/or 
misled her about getting the car returned after it had been repossessed. But as set out 
above, even if this was the case, when looking at any potential redress, I would be taking 
into account the length of time she had use of the car before it was collected by Santander. I 
still dont think compensation here is merited regardless of what Santander may have said to 
Miss E on the phone. I dont think its necessary for me to listen to these calls, as they arent 
going to change my mind about this. And as set out above, Im not reconsidering whether 
Santander had the right to terminate the agreement and repossess the car because that has 
already been considered by another ombudsman in July 2019. As Miss E had the car for an 
extended period but made no payments for it and was able to make full use of it, I wouldnt 
ask Santander for any other redress. So, I havent changed my view.
Miss E hasnt asked me to look specifically at her complaint about the costs shed incurred 
maintaining and repairing the car before it was collected. Reviewing my provisional decision, 
I havent changed my mind. I still think its fair that Miss E cover those costs as she had the 
car in her possession and was using it. Im not upholding this part of her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and while I appreciate this will be of disappointment to her, I 
am dismissing parts of Miss Es complaint and not upholding other parts. 
Im dismissing the following parts of Miss Es complaint:
That Santander unfairly terminated the conditional sale agreement in March 
2018 as this is a duplicate of her earlier complaint to this service dealt with in 
July 2019.
That Santander wasnt entitled to repossess the car without a court order as this 
is a duplicate of her earlier complaint to this service dealt with in July 2019 and 
no new evidence as to the amount she had paid for the car has been provided.
That Santander obtained a return of goods order unlawfully. 
Im not upholding the following parts of Miss Es complaint :
That Santander provided conflicting advice and/or misled her about getting the 
car returned after it had been repossessed. Im satisfied that no redress is due 
when taking into account the amount of use Miss E was able to make of the car 
before it was collected from her
That she should be reimbursed any costs incurred maintaining and repairing the 
car before it was repossessed. I think those costs were properly incurred and 
paid by her as part of having use of the car for the period that she did.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman