DRN-3059340
The complaint
Mr L complains about the decision of U K Insurance Limited to decline his business 
interruption insurance claim for losses arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr L operates as a dental laboratory business and held a commercial insurance policy 
underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI). The policy provided cover for a number of 
areas of risk including business interruption. In March 2020, Mr L closed his business due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In January 2021, following the Supreme Court judgment in The Financial Conduct Authority 
& Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the FCA test case), Mr L contacted 
UKI to claim for his losses due to this closure. 
UKI declined the claim however, saying that the judgment was not relevant to Mr Ls policy 
wording and that his policy did not provide cover in the circumstances of his claim. UKI said 
there were two extensions in the loss of income section of the policy that were potentially 
relevant  the Disease extension and the Public Emergency extension. But UKI said the first 
was limited to providing cover only in relation to the list of diseases provided in the clause, 
and this list did not include COVID-19. And UKI said the second extension included an 
exclusion for losses resulting from infectious or contagious disease generally. 
Mr L complained, and when UKI did not alter its stance he brought his complaint to this 
service saying that the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case meant his claim 
should be met. However, our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She 
considered that the Supreme Court judgment did not impact Mr Ls policy and she thought 
UKI had appropriately applied the terms of the policy when declining the claim. As Mr L 
remains unsatisfied, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr L, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover Mr Ls looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are 
a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy Mr L took out.
The business interruption cover provided by Mr Ls policy is located primarily in the Loss of 
Income section. The core cover provided by this section of Cs policy, as well as a number of 
the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the insured which 
has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused 
substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led 
to an interruption of Mr Ls business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Ls claim. And I 
think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr Ls claim under this area of cover.
Mr Ls policy does include, as has been noted, two extensions to the business interruption 
cover that do not require damage to have occurred and which look like they might provide 
cover.
The Disease extension
The first extension provides cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. 
But this is limited to providing cover in the event of certain diseases.
The relevant subclause to this extension says that cover is provided for:
the occurrence of the following diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, 
Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid 
Fever, Bubonic Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever
at the Premises

Provided the use of the Premises is restricted on the order or advice of a competent 
authority.

Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Mr L with cover for the circumstances of his claim. Largely, this is because 
COVID-19 isnt one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for UKI to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
UKI intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. UKI deliberately 
chose to define the cover by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. It was these types of policy that the 
Supreme Court considered in the FCA test case. But this is not the type of policy Mr L has. 
And the Supreme Courts findings to not apply to the type of extension that forms this part of 
Mr Ls policy.I think the purpose and effect of the extension in the policy Mr L has, is to provide cover in 
the event of the diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and 
diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of 
Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Mr Ls claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Mr Ls policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied UKIs decision to decline the claim under 
this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
The Public Emergency extension
The second potentially relevant extension in Mr Ls policy provides cover where, due to an 
emergency, a relevant public authority has taken action or given advice that has meant use 
of or access to the insured premises has been restricted. The Scottish Government did take 
action that required many types of business to close, so this extension might apply. 
However, the extension also lists a number of exclusions to the cover it provides. The fifth of 
these exclusions is for infectious or contagious disease. COVID-19 is an infectious or 
contagious disease, and it was COVID-19 that led to the Governments actions. So, I 
consider this exclusion would apply and this extension would not cover the circumstances of 
Mr Ls claim. 
As Mr L has referred to the FCA test case, I feel it is worthwhile picking up one point here. 
Firstly, I should say that the FCA test case was heard in English courts and considered the 
cover policies would provide in relation to the restrictions introduced in England. Mr Ls 
business is located in Scotland. However, the restrictions introduced in Scotland were similar 
to those in England, and I think a court would likely have determined the relevant issues in 
the same way had it been considering the same questions for cover in relation to Scottish 
businesses. 
One of the policies considered by the court of the first instance in the FCA test case included 
an extension with some similarities to this one in Mr Ls policy. It provided the same form of 
cover, i.e. for interruption caused by the actions of a relevant authority due to an emergency. 
And it also included an exclusion where those actions were taken as a result of the 
occurrence of an infectious disease. 
The court found that the actions of the UK Government in introducing the restrictions in 
March 2020 was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an infectious 
disease. So, it considered the exclusion applied and the clause did not provide cover in the 
circumstances of the claim. 
I consider that a court considering Mr Ls policy would make a similar finding. And I dont 
consider that this extension provides cover for the circumstance of his claim. It follows that I 
consider UKI acted appropriately when declining Mr Ls claim under this extension as well. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means UKI should have met Mr Ls claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr L, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman