DRN-3977637
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Phoenix Life Limited in relation to one of his pensions.  
In summary:
He believes Phoenix gave him incorrect information about the total 
contributions made into his pension ending.40A.
It took it 18 weeks to respond to his complaint and he would have taken his 
pension benefits sooner if it had responded earlier.
Hes unhappy with the overall investment performance of his pension, 
particularly the lack of growth on the contributions in the first few years.
Hes not happy with the compensation offered by Phoenix.
What happened
In 1995 Mr W took out a pension with Phoenix. In March 2021 he contacted Phoenix for 
information about his policy as he was considering taking benefits from it. Mr W had 
concerns about the information he had been provided with, which he raised with Phoenix. 
Phoenix replied to his complaint in July 2021. It explained that his policy included life cover 
which was funded by the encashment of investment units. It also explained that his policy 
had made a gain of over £58,000 over and above the contributions made into it. And it 
apologised for providing Mr W with incorrect information regarding the contributions made 
into his pension and for the poor service he had received. It offered £200 for the errors and 
delay he experienced. 
Unhappy with its response Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his concerns. The investigator explained that she thought Mr Ws 
complaint was one this service could consider. She went on to explain that Phoenix was the 
administrator of Mr Ws policy. She also explained that the value of his pension was greater 
than the contributions that had been made, and that Phoenix couldnt be held responsible for 
the performance of his pension. And whilst it had made a mistake in respect of the 
information it provided, that didnt alter the value of the policy. She thought the £200 
compensation Phoenix had offered was reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree with what the investigator said. He has set out in several e-mails his 
concerns. In summary:
He thought the response he had received from Phoenixs call handler when he asked 
what the impact of him raising a complaint would be, should have been a simple yes 
or no answer. He thought the answer that was given was misleading and was 
claiming compensation for 18 weeks loss of pension.
He didnt agree with the answer given by the investigator in respect of the 
performance of his pension. He made the point that Phoenix had control over the 
charges applied to the pension plan which would impact on its performance. 
He didnt think his complaint had been fully addressed. He wanted to know what had 
happened to his pension plan for the eight years between 1995 and 2003 when 
contributions stopped. He thought any loss in the first eight years might have been 
the result of bad practices when the pension plan was set up, such as hidden 
commissions and charges. He explained why he thought the pension had lost money 
in the first eight years. He wanted the relevant information/data to be provided by 
Phoenix. 
He didnt think the compensation Phoenix had offered was sufficient. 
The investigator then wrote to Mr W. She explained that Phoenix didnt consent to anything 
being looked into that took place more than six years ago, which limited the scope of what 
she could look at. She also explained that Phoenix had said pension statements would have 
been sent to Mr Ws employer who took the pension out on his behalf. 
Mr W didnt agree, and he asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The case 
was passed to me. Having reviewed the complaint, I issued jurisdiction decisions explaining 
why I thought Mr Ws complaint was one this service could consider. In response to my 
provisional decision, Mr W reiterated his two major complaint points regarding the lost 
annuity income and the loss after the first eight years of contributions.
The investigator, at my request, asked Phoenix to provide information about what business 
advised on the sale of the policy and all the evidence it held from the time of the sale  and 
details of when Mr W took benefits from his pension. In response Phoenix said it was now 
responsible for the sale of the policy. It had originally been sold by a tied agent of the 
predecessor business that sold it. It couldnt locate any paperwork from the point of sale. 
The scheme was wound up in 2003. It also said that it was unable to provide statements 
dating back to 1995. It provided statements that it could find dating back to 2013. It also 
accepted that the information it provided in respect of the total premiums was incorrect. The 
figures had been checked by its actuarial department. 
The investigator updated Mr W as to what information Phoenix had provided. In response 
Mr W said that he didnt think his complaint could be resolved without the first eight years 
pension statements / breakdown.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 2023. I explained why I was intending not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W wrote to me in response explaining why he didnt agree with 
my provisional decision. In summary he said:
He acknowledged the documents he had been sent but didnt think they contained 
the data he wanted.
He set out figures based on what had been provided by Phoenix and his analysis of 
those which he said demonstrated the loss he thought he had suffered for the period 
01/06/1995 to 01/01/2003.
He explained why he thought the loss for the first eight years contributions was 
suspicious which was why he had asked for the information he had requested. He 
suspected this was due to some bad practices at that time.
He thought the pension provider was responsible for keeping records. And he 
thought Phoenix should have ensured paperwork related to his pension was 
transferred and retained.
Although his pension had not made an overall loss that didnt mean he couldnt 
complain about the eight-year period he was concerned about. 
Information could only be provided by the pension administrator. 
He explained why he disagreed with my findings in respect of the 18 weeks delay in 
him taking his annuity, which he said was caused by the misleading information provided by the call handler. 
His concerns werent being considered by a court so solid evidence wasnt needed 
for everything.
In response to Mr W, the investigator asked what information he would like to see. She 
explained that Phoenix didnt have statements for the first eight years his policy was in force.  
And that those statements would have been sent to the scheme. 
Mr W responded to the investigators e-mail. He repeated his view that information he had 
asked for about the annual plan values for the first eight years was needed. And he 
commented on the other points she had raised.
In its response, Phoenix said it had no additional comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought about what Mr W said in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, Ive still decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I set out my thinking in respect of the complaint, I want to again acknowledge that 
Mr W has provided a detailed explanation of his concerns and the information he thinks is 
needed to answer those concerns. And he has repeated those concerns and what he thinks 
is needed to fairly decide this case in his responses to my provisional decision. In assessing 
Mr Ws complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues that are most 
relevant to his complaint. As a result, I wont necessarily have addressed every point that 
Mr W has made. 
Mr W has also set out what information he thinks is necessary for his complaint to be 
assessed. That is a matter for me to determine. But I want to assure Mr W that I have 
thought very carefully about what he has said and requested information from Phoenix that I 
have considered to be appropriate for me to ask for.
Mr Ws concerns about the investment performance of his pension
Mr W is unhappy with the performance of his pension. And, in particular, he has concerns 
about the lack of growth over the period of time he was making contributions from 1995 to 
2003.
Mr W has been very clear in explaining what information he thinks is necessary in respect of 
his concerns about the investment performance of his pension for the first eight years it was 
in force. Unfortunately, neither of the parties have been able to provide much in the way of 
documentation in relation to Mr Ws pension. Mr W thinks that Phoenix should have retained 
paperwork and records in relation to his pension. And I dont disagree that it would be 
preferable for Phoenix to have complete records about his pension. 
But the reality is that it doesnt. And taking into account that his pension was taken out over 
25 years ago, I dont think it is surprising or unreasonable that Phoenix doesnt have 
statements or documentation dating back to the first eight years his pension was in force. 
And similarly, I dont think it surprising or unreasonable that Mr W hasnt been able to 
provide information and documentation that he would have had about his pension over the years. So, I have limited information on which to base my assessment. But Im satisfied I 
have sufficient information to fairly assess Mr Ws complaint.
I do understand Mr Ws frustration and disappointment at the value of his pension, 
particularly taking into account the length of time of his premiums have been invested. But 
the fact that Mr Ws pension hasnt grown as he would have hoped, doesnt mean the 
pension has been inappropriately managed by Phoenix. 
The value of Mr Ws policy is a function not only of the performance of any fund(s) he is 
invested in, but the value of his investments is also impacted by the charges that are applied 
to any individual funds and to the policy itself. And in my experience, fund and policy 
charges can have a significant impact over time on the value of investments. 
Phoenix has said the pension contributions have been invested in its Managed Growth S8 
fund for the whole time the pension was in force. My understanding is that this type of fund 
invests in a broad range of assets, including equities, property, and fixed interest securities. 
Investment performance cant for the most part be guaranteed, unless as in some types of 
investment, a fund has some form of guarantee. And the value of investments can fluctuate 
quite significantly over time, particularly if the investments are predominantly equity based, 
such as appears to be the case with Mr Ws managed fund. And the aim of such investments 
is to provide medium to long term growth. 
As a result, investment performance can vary for a variety of different reasons. And it is for 
this reason this service doesnt generally comment on investment performance. Mr Ws 
pension was taken out over 25 years ago. And the charging structure of pension 
arrangements has changed significantly over that time frame. 
As Ive already said, fund and policy charges can have a significant impact on a policy value 
over time. Phoenix has explained that it doesnt have any documentation from the time 
Mr Ws pension was taken out by his employer. Considering the length of time since the 
policy was sold, that isnt necessarily surprising to me.  
From my experience it wasnt unusual for pension policies taken out in the mid 1990s, which 
is when Mr Ws pension policy started, to have a higher charging structure than pension 
policies that are available today. And the way those policies were designed, meant the 
impact of charges could be significant for plans such as these, when contributions stopped 
being made into the plan at an earlier point than was anticipated when the plan started. I 
dont have enough information to know if that was the case with Mr Ws pension. But even if 
it was, that wouldnt mean that Phoenix had necessarily done something wrong. It was 
simply how the pension contract might have been set up at that time.
Mr W has reiterated that he thinks there may have been some bad practices when his 
pension was taken out. I can understand from his perspective he thinks that may have been 
the case. And he has said that solid evidence wasnt required for everything. But sufficient 
evidence is needed for me to be able to fairly and safely make any findings that Phoenix 
may have done something wrong in relation to the concerns Mr W has raised. His suspicions 
arent sufficient. And in this case there simply isnt sufficient evidence for me to safely 
conclude that Phoenix did anything wrong in respect of his pension, or that anything 
untoward happened when he was sold it.
Mr Ws policy also included life cover. Phoenix has explained how charges for that cover 
were calculated and deducted from Mr Ws plan. I accept the life cover charges were 
relatively small, but Im satisfied that this would clearly have had an impact on the value of 
Mr Ws policy, which is why I have referred to them. Mr W has explained that his primary concerns relate to the growth of his pension for the 
period of time contributions were made. And that is based on a comparison of the total 
contributions made into the plan and what he says was the plan value in 2003 when 
contributions stopped, which he has set out in his calculation of loss. 
Mr W has said the value of the pension in 2003 was less than the contributions that had 
been made into it. I can also understand why Mr W from his perspective, is concerned that 
he may have made a loss, during the period contributions were being made into the pension. 
I havent seen a statement that shows the value of the pension in 2003. And Phoenix has 
explained that it doesnt have statements prior to 2013. 
Even if the figure Mr W has quoted is correct, that doesnt mean Phoenix has done anything 
wrong, for the reasons Ive already explained. Investment returns can be volatile, and it isnt 
unusual in my experience that at a specific point in time, the value of an investment can be 
less that the amount invested. And Mr Ws concerns relate primarily to the first eight years 
that his policy was in force. 
Although Mr W suspects that Phoenix has done something wrong, the limited evidence I 
have simply doesnt support that suspicion. The value of his pension has grown over the 
medium to long term as it was anticipated it would. And it was over £88,000 when 
transferred in 2021. This is clearly more than the £28,639 invested, so Im still satisfied that 
overall, he hasnt incurred any losses. Also, I dont think the information he thinks is required 
is necessarily relevant for the reasons Ive set out.  
And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think in Mr Ws case, Phoenix has done anything 
wrong or is responsible for what he considers to be poor investment performance.
Did Phoenix delay Mr W from taking his pension benefits?
Mr W has submitted that the response he had received from Phoenixs call handler when he 
asked what the impact of him raising a complaint would be, should have been a simple yes 
or no answer. He thought the answer he was given was misleading and has led to delays in 
him taking his pension. He is claiming compensation for 18 weeks loss of pension income.
Ive listened to the call Mr W had with the call handler. He asked the call handler if he made 
a complaint, would that mean he wouldnt be able to get his money out until the complaint 
was resolved. The answer he received was that It may hold it up.
Mr W interpreted that response as him not being able to take benefits from his pension until 
his complaint had been resolved. I dont agree he was told he needed to wait until his 
complaint had been resolved before he could take his pension benefits. 
I accept that Mr W wasnt given a yes or no answer as he thinks he should have been given. 
But Mr W wasnt told he wouldnt be able to take his pension benefits if he made a 
complaint. The answer he was given was that it may hold it up. And it seems to me that 
Mr W interpreted that answer as meaning that he wouldnt be able to take benefits until 
Phoenix had replied to his complaint. 
I think a reasonable interpretation of what Mr W was told, could also have been that he could 
take his pension benefits, but there was a possibility that the process might be delayed. 
Mr W chose to wait until he received an answer from Phoenix and for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not satisfied that what he was told should have reasonably led him to 
conclude he couldnt take benefits from his pension until the complaint had been resolved. So, I dont think Phoenix is responsible for him not taking pension benefits sooner than he 
did.
Did Phoenix provide Mr W with incorrect information about his policy?
Mr W has also complained about the incorrect information he was given by Phoenix in 
relation to the contributions that were made into his pension. Phoenix has explained how the 
call handler made that mistake. It has also explained what contributions were made into the 
pension and how the total contribution figure was calculated. Its also clarified that the figures 
were checked by its actuarial department. Ive no reason to doubt what Phoenix has said. Its 
not in dispute that Phoenix provided incorrect information about the contributions in the call 
he had with the call handler. But I dont think this has had a significant impact on Mr W. Im 
satisfied therefore that the £200 Phoenix has offered is sufficient to compensate Mr W for 
the inconvenience he has been caused as a result of Phoenixs mistake. 
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all of the circumstances. So, my final decision is that Phoenix Life 
Limited should, only if it hasnt already done so, pay Mr W £200 compensation if he accepts 
my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman