DRN-3574169
The complaint
Mr T on behalf of Mrs T has complained about the poor service she received from British 
Gas Insurance Limited when she made a claim under her homecare insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs Ts hot water tank split and Mr T contacted British Gas 
for assistance on behalf of Mrs T. Mr T complained to British Gas as it took seven weeks 
to put things right. He says their family were without hot water and heating during this 
time, which was very inconvenient and uncomfortable for them, particularly for the time 
of year.
British Gas upheld the complaint. It accepted it had provided a poor service and this had 
resulted in multiple visits to Mr and Mrs Ts home. For the inconvenience caused British 
Gas paid £650 compensation. 
Mr T asked us to look at his complaint. He didnt think £650 was enough to reflect the 
inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. He explained 
that this service can only consider the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs T as 
the policyholder. And he found that for some of the delay - up until 7 January 2022  it 
was unavoidable due to the replacement item being out of stock. This was something 
British Gas had made Mrs T aware of in December 2021. 
For the delay British Gas was responsible for, our Investigator thought British Gas had 
paid a fair compensation sum. 
Mr T on behalf of Mrs T didnt agree. He said he believes the sum British Gas paid is 
unfair. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was on the customer and what a 
business did to put things right. 
Ive reviewed the timeline of events from both parties. Theres no dispute as to what 
happened  so I dont intend to repeat the timeline in the same level of detail in my 
decision. In summary it took from 9 December 2021 to 25 January 2022 for British Gas 
to replace the hot water system and put it in working order.  
British Gas advised Mr T on 14 December 2021 that a replacement tank wouldnt be 
available until 9 January 2022. So I think British Gas managed their expectations here 
and this was something outside of its control. 
However, I think British Gas is responsible for delays in January 2022 which resulted in 
several visits to Mr and Mrs Ts home before the replacement tank and heating and hot 
water was fully restored. This was completed on 25 January 2022. 
Mr T explained that he, Mrs T and their children used the facilities to shower at a gym 
where Mr T is a member. Mr T said it cost him an additional £180 for his family to be 
able to do this. 
Ive considered the impact on Mrs T. I can understand that being without hot water and 
heating while having to manage daily activities during this time will have been very 
inconvenient  especially considering the time of year. 
The compensation sums we award are modest and reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by a businesss failings. Having to deal with any claim will 
inevitably result in some disruption to daily life and inconvenience. I think the 
compensation sum of £650 which British Gas paid is fair in reflection of the 
inconvenience and distress its poor service caused  over and above what would 
otherwise be expected. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs T and Mr T. But for the 
reasons Ive given above, Im not asking British Gas to pay any more. I think it has done 
enough to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman