DRN-3807605
The complaint
Mr F, through a representative, says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Mr F took out a credit card from Lendable on 14 June 2021, it had an initial credit limit of 
£500. This was increased to £800 on 7 September 2021.
Mr F says Lendable did not complete thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks prior to 
lending that were specific to his application. Lendable disagrees.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said Lendables checks were 
proportionate and did not show anything that ought to have concerned Lendable.
Mr F disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mr Fs complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. This means without
having to borrow to repay or suffering other adverse financial consequences. These checks
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, Mr Fs income and expenditure and his credit history. There was no set 
list of checks.
This means to reach my decision I need to decide if Lendable carried out proportionate
checks at the time of the application and limit increase; if so, did it make fair lending 
decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely 
have shown.
Lendable asked for some information from Mr F when he applied for the card. It asked for his 
income and checked this with an external verification source. It completed a credit check to 
understand his credit history and existing credit commitments. Given the amount of credit it 
offered Mr F, and the results from these initial checks, I think Lendable carried out 
proportionate checks.
So I have then gone on to look at whether Lendable made a fair decision based on the 
information it gathered. Mr F declared his monthly income to be £2,456 but after its 
verification Lendable adjusted this down to £1,999. The credit check showed Mr F had no 
public records or defaults. He wasnt over-indebted and his active accounts were all up-to-
date. He had missed payments on one credit card eight months prior, but had brought it 
back up-to-date six months ago. So there wasnt a level of adverse data such that Lendable 
ought to have been concerned about financial stress. Mr Fs total credit commitments, 
including this new card, would total 20.11% of his monthly income. So in the round I dont 
think there were indications that the credit card with a £500 limit would not be sustainably 
affordable for Mr F.
When Lendable increased Mr Fs credit limit to £800 it completed the same checks. These 
showed Mr Fs household monthly income was £4,059; that Mr F was up-to-date on all other 
accounts; that he had opened no new accounts and that the total amount of his monthly 
income he would need to service his total debt increased to 21.8%. I find these checks were 
proportionate in the circumstances and that Lendable made a fair lending decision based on 
the results.
It follows I dont find Lendable was wrong to give the card or the limit increase to Mr F.
I am sorry Mr F has gone on to struggle financially. I note that when Mr F contacted 
Lendable in June 2022 about his difficulties it agreed to a reduced repayment plan and froze 
interest. It has confirmed it will offer further support when this plan ends if needed. So I think 
Lendable has also treated Mr F fairly in this regard. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman