DRN-2047130
The complaint
Mrs C complains about HDI Global Specialty SEs decision to void a property insurance 
policy because of misrepresentation.
What happened
On 21 February 2018, Mrs C took out the policy online through a broker. The policy was to 
protect a property (that Ill call House A) that formed part of her late fathers estate, and that 
she was going to inherit.
The following month, Mrs C made a claim on the policy as a water pipe had burst and 
caused damage.
During HDIs investigation of the claim, it found out that House A wasnt Mrs Cs main 
residence, as she lived elsewhere. It said that if it had known that the house wasnt Mrs Cs 
main residence, it wouldnt have offered her cover. It therefore voided the policy from the 
start and returned the premiums, which meant the claim wasnt payable. Unhappy with this, 
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought there wasnt 
enough evidence to support that House A was Mrs Cs main residence. Consequently, she 
found that HDI had been entitled to void the policy.
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs C has raised concerns about the broker, weve considered this under a 
separate complaint. This decision will only focus on HDIs decision to void the policy. 
As HDI voided the policy due to misrepresentation, the relevant law that applies is the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive therefore 
considered the matter in accordance with the principles set out in CIDRA.
 
In order to first decide whether there was misrepresentation, I need to be satisfied that clear 
questions were asked/clear statements were made, and that Mrs Cs answers were wrong.
In order to obtain an online quote through the brokers website, Mrs C needed to agree with 
the following statement:
Your Property
Is your main residence and is solely occupied by you or your family.
I think this statement was clear. 
After taking out the policy online, Mrs C was sent a Statement of Fact document. This 
confirmed the answers shed given when taking out the policy online, which included that 
House A was her main home, it was regularly unoccupied at night, and that there was one 
adult living in the property. It also explained that if any of the information was incorrect, the 
policy could be declared void and treated as though it had never existed. 
Mrs C has explained that she had been living at House A for several months before her 
father had passed away, as she had been caring for him. House A had been adapted for 
disabilities, and she found living there easier than at her own property. She explains that she 
and her husband intended to eventually sell their property and for House A to become the 
main residence for both of them, though in the meantime, she would spend the days in 
House A and the nights at her own house. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Cs explanation, but I dont think it can be said that House A was 
her main residence. She had another property elsewhere with her husband. I understand 
that she was on the electoral roll at that other property, and also paid the bills there rather 
than at House A. On balance, I dont think Mrs C should have agreed with the statement that 
House A was her main residence (even though she intended it to be in the future), and so I 
find there was misrepresentation.
HDI has shown that if it had known that House A wasnt Mrs Cs primary residence, it 
wouldnt have offered her the policy. Under CIDRA, that means HDI is entitled to void the 
policy from the start, and so the claim cant be payable as there was no cover in force.
HDI has treated Mrs Cs misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate, and has 
refunded the premiums. Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman