DRN-3817305
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund over £20,000 he made 
in payments from his credit card to a dating website which he believes to be fraudulent. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr O says he has been the victim of a scam. He used his Lloyds credit card to purchase 
credits in order to exchange messages with potential partners on a dating platform 
(UKfornication.com). He made over 300 payments worth over £20,000 between June 2017 
and February 2020, which ranged in amount from around £5 to £250. Mr O believes he had 
been the victim of an online dating scam after discovering the people he was speaking to 
were not real and the dating website went offline. 
Lloyds refused to refund the money as it said Mr O had authorised the payments and signed 
up to the merchants terms and conditions, where he continued to use their services for 
around three years. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think there was enough evidence to 
suggest that the website Mr O used has been operating a scam, and also didnt think there 
would have been any cause for Lloyds to have intervened even if it was a scam. Mr O 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Lloyds could have delayed the payments while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr O.
So, I would need to be satisfied that UKfornication.com was operating a scam when 
these payments were made between 2017 and 2020 in order to expect Lloyds to have 
done anything further here. However, theres little evidence to suggest that Mr O has 
been scammed here. 
The terms and conditions of the website state that it is for adult entertainment purposes, 
and that they may use fictitious and self-created profiles where physical contact with a 
person will not be possible. Mr O has shown that he did exchange messages with 
several women in exchange for the payments he made, which suggest to me that he 
received the services he paid for. So, while I appreciate Mr O may have been 
disappointed to discover the women he was messaging may not have been real, I dont 
consider there to be enough evidence to suggest he has fallen victim to a scam. 
As a result, there was no obligation on Lloyds to intervene or prevent the payments from 
being made. Even if it could be said that the website was operating a scam, I still dont 
consider there would have been any obligation on the bank to intervene as the payments 
would not have appeared particularly unusual when compared with Mr Os normal 
pattern of spending. The website had become a regular payee form the account, and the 
payments only ranged between £5 and £250. This would not have appeared particularly 
suspicious, and therefore would not have required any intervention on the part of the 
bank to question Mr O about the payments.
In its final response Lloyds also suggested Mr O could make a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 if he could evidence a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation of sale. I cant see that Mr O has been able to provide any such 
evidence, so I dont consider Lloyds has acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a 
section 75 claim any further. In any event, most of the transactions he made were for 
under £100 and therefore wouldnt be eligible for consideration under section 75 either 
(as it only covers transactions of over £100 and less than £30,000). However, if Mr O 
does have any evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation for any 
transactions that were over £100, he should submit this to Lloyds for consideration. 
I note that Mr O has continued to refer to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code throughout his complaint. However, as has been explained to him several times by 
both Lloyds and the Investigator, the Code does not apply to the transactions he has 
disputed as they were made by credit card. Credit card transactions do not fall within the 
scope of the Code, so it was correct for this not to have been considered as part of his 
complaint. 
I also note that Mr O has raised some concerns about the way Lloyds handled his 
complaint. However, complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, so it is not something I am able to consider as part of his complaint. 
I understand this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr O, but I will not be asking Lloyds 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman