DRN-4154617
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has unfairly blocked his 
account following transactions he says he made towards a genuine investment.
What happened
On 1 September 2022, Mr R made two debit card payments  just over £900 each  to a 
cryptocurrency platform. On 15 September, Mr R visited a branch as his online banking had 
been playing up. It was during that interaction that the branch staff contacted Nationwides 
fraud team. 
Following what appears to have been a lengthy discussion, Nationwide became concerned 
that Mr R had fallen victim to a scam. Hed told the building society that hed posted about 
the recent loss of his wife on social media, and someone had reached out to him offering 
their condolences. The conversation became frequent, and Mr R built a rapport with the 
individual and thought he could trust them. The individual subsequently told him about 
opportunities to earn more income, and Mr R started making deposits into a cryptocurrency 
wallet to facilitate trading. According to Nationwides notes from the time, it managed to help 
Mr R realise that he was being scammed. His card was stopped, and a scam claim was 
raised. Mr R says Nationwide also made him delete the crypto wallet app.
On 25 September, Mr R made two further payments  each for around £2,350. It doesnt 
look like the payments triggered an alert on Nationwides systems. 
On 18 October, Mr R attempted to make a further payment for just over £14,400 to the 
crypto wallet. It flagged on the building societys system, and it contacted him for further 
enquiries. Mr R insisted he was making a genuine investment and hadnt been scammed. 
Nationwide placed a block on Mr Rs internet banking as well as his debit card and informed 
him that the block would remain in place until its fraud team had finished its review. It told 
Mr R that direct debits would continue to be paid from his account, and he could visit his 
branch and withdraw up to £150 a week for other expenditure (and a higher amount on 
provision of receipt or invoice).  
Following a series of phone discussions, Mr R visited a Nationwide branch on 10 November 
where the bank staff invoked the Banking Protocol, resulting in the Police getting involved. 
Mr R made a complaint, and Nationwide said the block would remain as it had a duty to 
protect him from financial harm, and he still wasnt accepting he was being scammed. 
Our investigator thought the actions Nationwide had taken so far were reasonable as they 
were also persuaded that Mr R was being scammed. Mr R said he felt like he was being 
treated like a criminal and not being allowed access to his own funds. He told the 
investigator about the difficulties he was experiencing by not being able to access more than 
£150 a week, and the toll this had taken on his mental and physical health. 
The investigator made further enquiries with Nationwide, including asking for an update on 
its review of the blocks. Included in its response was a statement from the Police that Mr R 
had agreed to speak to his daughter and sort out a Power of Attorney (PoA) over his 
finances. Nationwide told the investigator it would look to review the block once the PoA had 
been registered with it. The investigator contacted Mr R about this, and he said hed spoken 
to his daughter about it but decided to pause matters until after the block was removed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im sorry to hear about how this situation has affected Mr R. Hes 
told us about his health circumstances, and so I do appreciate being unable to use internet 
banking and make card payments has caused him great inconvenience. 
Its an unfortunate fact that investment-related scams are on the rise, and all banks and 
building societies  including Nationwide  have processes and systems in place to prevent 
their customers as well as themselves from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. The crux 
of this complaint is how Nationwide has treated Mr R and handled his account since October 
2022. 
Ill start with the payments themselves. From what I can see, based on the answers Mr R 
gave on 15 September, I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to have investigated things 
further. Its notes from the time state the balances on his crypto wallets didnt add up to the 
deposits that were made from his Nationwide account. And an attempt to make a withdrawal 
from his investment was unsuccessful as the funds werent credited despite Mr R receiving a 
confirmation. I also understand that Mr R messaged the individual his dealings were with in 
front of Nationwide, and it became concerned by the general response he received which it 
believed was typical of scammers. Being aware of how fraudsters tend to operate from the 
wider industry knowledge and through some of its own customers experiences, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have been concerned about the situation  it had the 
hallmarks of a typical investment scam. 
As Mr R had seemingly accepted that hed been scammed, I dont think Nationwide needed 
to do anything further at that point. But on 18 October, when he attempted to make a 
significantly larger payment and insisted that his investment was genuine despite a scam 
conversation by Nationwide, I think the block it placed on his internet banking and debit card 
was a proportionate response to the situation. I understand Mr R believes the investment 
must have been genuine as hed already received a small return by that point. Unfortunately, 
its often the case with investment scams that a small withdrawal is allowed, or a credit is 
paid, to lure the customer into making further payments thinking theyll earn even higher 
returns. 
Nationwide invoked the Banking Protocol on 10 November which resulted in the Police 
visiting Mr R. Its an initiative between banks and the Police to help prevent scams. Given 
Mr R remained convinced he wasnt being defrauded but hed been unable to satisfactorily 
address Nationwides genuine concern that hed fallen victim to a scam, on balance, I find 
that it was appropriate for Nationwide to have taken such a restrictive action. From the 
information Ive seen, the Police also shared its concerns. Its noted in their statement that 
Mr R agreed it was a scam and that he wouldnt attempt to make further payments. Its also 
noted he told the attending officer that he was going to sort out a PoA with his daughter as 
he realised this could happen again. 
As Mr R has told the Police that he realised he could fall victim to a scam again, I can 
understand Nationwides reasons for wanting to continue to protect him from the risk of financial harm due to fraud until a PoA is registered like he advised the Police he intended to 
do. And as the Police also shares its concerns, I can understand Nationwides reluctance in 
removing the block as things stand. 
I do realise Mr R feels very strongly about the restrictions and I can understand where hes 
coming from  I acknowledge that the restrictions are limiting. But Nationwide has a balance 
to strike between following its customers instructions in executing payments and protecting 
them and itself from the ever-increasing risk of fraud. In this instance, this action has come 
at a great inconvenience to Mr R, especially due to his health. But I can see that Nationwide 
has continued to allow direct debits to be paid from his account for bills to be paid without 
any interruption. Should Mr R need to amend an existing direct debit or set up a new one, Id 
expect Nationwide to facilitate that  even if that means unblocking the account for a short 
time to allow that to happen. 
I can also see that Nationwide has said it will consider letting Mr R withdraw an amount 
higher than £150 per week on the provision of evidence. Obtaining an invoice or a receipt 
might not always be possible before the merchant has been paid, so I would expect 
Nationwide to be flexible and open to accepting other forms of evidence when considering 
Mr Rs request for a higher withdrawal amount. For instance, it could consider a dentist 
appointment confirmation as evidence of imminent expenditure, which should enable it to 
ascertain the expected charges at that clinic.
In summary, I recognise that Mr R is likely to disagree with my findings and I appreciate his 
feelings on this matter. But looking at everything, under the circumstances, I dont think the 
actions Nationwide has taken so far have been unreasonable. At the same time, I dont 
consider it would be fair for such a limiting restriction to be in place indefinitely. I expect 
Nationwide to regularly review the situation and assess whether the limitation, as it currently 
stands, is still warranted. If Mr R or his daughter (as and when the PoA is registered) are 
unhappy with any aspect of Nationwides review process  when it happens  they can 
complain about that should they wish.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman