DRN-3266843
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly declined her application for 
a credit card, and then encouraged her to apply again telling her it wouldn't impact her credit 
score.
Miss S is represented on this case by her father, but for ease of reading I have referred to 
Miss S throughout.
What happened
Miss S applied for a credit card with Barclays on 17 January 2021. Barclays declined the 
application and Miss S contacted them a few days later to discuss the reasons. During this 
call Barclays told her it couldn't see a declined application on its system and suggested she 
should put through a new application. Before doing so Miss S asked for reassurance that a 
second application would not affect her credit file and Barclays confirmed it wouldn't.
Miss S went ahead with the second application, which was also declined. Miss S appealed 
the decline decision and the application was referred to an underwriter to be reviewed. The 
underwriter maintained the decision to decline the application based on its own lending 
criteria and information it had regarding Miss S' affordability. Barclays also noted, the two 
applications which were completed four days apart contained differing employment details 
and income amounts. 
Both applications resulted in a hard search being recorded on Miss S' credit file.
Miss S complained to Barclays, to resolve matters she wanted it to issue her with a credit 
card and remove the second search from her credit file. Barclays didn't uphold her 
complaint, it said both applications had been declined correctly and in line with its lending 
criteria. 
Miss S remained unhappy with this and so brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into matters and partially upheld Miss S' complaint, in summary she said:
Barclays had incorrectly advised Miss S that a second application wouldn't impact 
her credit file, and but for this advice, she didn't think Miss S would have completed a 
second application. So, she asked Barclays to remove the second credit search from 
Miss S credit file.
Barclays had fairly declined both applications based on its lending criteria, so it didn't 
need to revisit them or issue Miss S with a credit card.
Barclays agreed with the investigator's recommendation to remove the second credit search 
from Miss S credit file.
Miss S didn't agree, she felt the resolution being offered would have no impact now and so 
she should be awarded some compensation for the upset this had caused. The matter has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss S I've reached the same outcome as the investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons, I'll explain.
It's for Barclays to decide who it is willing to offer a credit facility to. And after considering the 
information Miss S provided, through her applications for a credit card, about her income and 
outgoings, it considered that it wasn't willing to offer her a credit card. It seems Barclays 
didn't believe that granting Miss S a credit facility would be responsible after taking into 
account both, the information she provided on the applications she made and the information 
it held or obtained about her from the credit reference agencies. It's for Barclays to decide 
the criteria it uses when assessing a customer circumstances, and I've seen nothing here to 
suggest that it acted unfairly when considering Miss S application. So, Im satisfied it was 
entitled to decline both applications that she made.
However, Barclays did give her incorrect information when advising her to make a second 
application. And, I'm inclined to agree it's unlikely she would have made a second 
application had she known a second search would be recorded on her credit file. The 
investigator asked Barclays to remove this search, and it has agreed to do so. 
Before I move on to the last remaining matter in dispute here, which is if Miss S is entitled to 
compensation for Barclays error. I feel I should clarify the following matter for Miss S. As a 
service we do not award compensation to representatives for the time they spend on dealing 
with complaints. But that does not mean we cant award compensation to the complainant 
for the businesss mistake if we think it is warranted. 
Miss S says removing the search has now become irrelevant as it was more than six months 
ago, and she should be entitled to compensation to recognise the time it has taken and the 
stress it has caused. 
I think it would be useful here for me to point out, when we consider complaints at this 
service, we look to put consumers back in the position they would have been in had the 
mistake not happened. In Miss S' case that would mean the second application would not 
have been processed and would not have shown on her credit file, by asking Barclays to 
remove the search this is achieved.
So, I've gone on to think about the impact of the mistake. I've not seen any evidence to show 
that the second search stopped Miss S from obtaining credit elsewhere or caused any other 
inconvenience. But I do understand it was frustrating for Miss S to have to deal with this. Ive 
balanced this with the inconsistent details Miss S supplied in her two applications and the 
impact that may have had on her second application. And based on both parties having 
made mistakes or giving incorrect information out, Im satisfied that no compensation is 
warranted here.
I know Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Barclays  can do for her.
Putting things right
Barclays should now remove any trace of the second search from Miss S credit file.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. I now require it to put things right by removing the second search 
from Miss S credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman