DRN-2857885
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy about the way Axa Insurance UK Plc (Axa) have dealt with repairs to her
car following an accident.  
What happened
Ms K was involved in a road traffic accident in November 2019. Damage was caused to her
car and Axa advised that their approved garage would collect the car and carry out the
repairs.
The car was returned to Ms K but there were still problems including no headlights, air
coming through the passenger door and problems with the steering pulling to one side. Ms K
reported this to Axa who advised her to return the car to the approved garage. The car was
repaired again but Ms K said that the problems with the passenger door and steering had
not been fixed. The garage said that they had completed all the necessary repairs.
Sadly, due to a family tragedy Ms K was unable to pursue the repairs any further until March
2020. During this time she said she did not receive any communication from Axa. In March
she contacted Axa and agreed for the car to be inspected by an independent garage, and
this took place in June.
The original approved garage then requested another inspection and Axa instructed an
engineer. This inspection took place in September 2020 and Ms K was told by Axa that the
approved garage will now carry out the outstanding repairs. She was reluctant for them to do
this but agreed. To date the repairs have not been carried out.
The engineers report detailed a number of repairs that were the responsibility of the garage,
a couple of issues that required further investigation, and one that he did not believe was a
result of the accident, or as a result of the original repairs. He also noted that the vehicle had
done 1,981 miles since the repairs were carried out.
Axa agreed to carry out the repairs as detailed in the engineers report and offered Ms K
£250 compensation for the delay in the repairs being done. They also accepted that their
communication had been poor and offered a further £200 compensation.
Ms K was not happy with Axas response to her complaint as the repairs have still not been
completed. She is also requesting a further £1,308.09 in compensation which is the cost of
her car insurance renewal premium, which she thinks is fair for Axa to refund. Ms K says she
has also had to spend £361.43 on repairs to her car to keep it roadworthy in the meantime.
She says that although her father uses it occasionally, she is not confident to drive it until the
full repairs are completed.
Our investigator issued her view and partially upheld the complaint. She agreed that the
repairs, as detailed in the engineers report, should be carried out by the original approved
garage and that the car should be further inspected by the engineer once the repairs were
complete. She awarded Ms K an additional £200 for distress and inconvenience as the
repairs had still not been completed and there had been no further communication from Axa.
She also asked Axa to consider the repairs Ms K had paid for herself and to refund any that
were as a result of the accident.
Axa did not agree with the investigators view and pointed out that they had already paid
£1,025 compensation to Ms K, and they had sent her flowers. They felt this was fair. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2021. I said:
There are two parts to this complaint and I will deal with them separately.
Repairs
There is no dispute about the claim itself, or that Axa should cover the cost of the repairs to
Ms Ks car. The repairs to Ms Ks car were carried out by a repairer chosen by Axa and so if
the repairs are not completed to an acceptable standard, I would expect Axa to put things
right.
Ms K was not satisfied with the repairs carried out by the garage, although I note that the
garage disputes her concerns. Axa has, however, conducted two inspections  one by a
garage and the other by an engineer. Axa say they do not have a report from the garage, but
I have seen a copy of the report from the engineer. As this is the only expert report I have, I
rely on this to determine what now needs to be done to get the car properly repaired.
I would only expect Axa to pay for damage caused by the accident or any additional damage
its responsible for. The engineer has highlighted one issue, at point number six in his report,
which he does not believe is Axas responsibility. He says that he can see from the pre-
repair photos that the left sill lower trim was missing prior to the original repairs. I have
considered the report and am satisfied that this is not something which Axa is responsible for
and would not expect Axa to pay for this.
Axa have said that they want the original garage to carry out the repairs. The engineer has
suggested that the car is re-inspected after the repairs are complete to ensure that they are
done to a satisfactory standard. I think this is fair. However, I know that Ms K has been
reluctant for the original garage to carry out the repairs as she is not confident that they will
do the work properly. I think this is a reasonable concern as they have attempted to repair
the car twice already.
If Ms K would prefer, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Ms K to have the work carried
out at a garage of her choice with Axa paying for the work as outlined in the engineers
report at points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9. Ms K should be aware that if she takes this option,
Axa would not be responsible for the quality of repairs as this would be an arrangement
between Ms K and her garage. A copy of the engineers report should be provided to
whichever garage is to complete the work. I also ask Axa to provide Ms K with a copy of the
engineers report.
Alternatively, Ms K could accept a cash payment from Axa in lieu of the repairs being carried
out. It would then be up to Ms K to arrange and pay for any repairs. The engineers report
estimates the cost of the repairs to be £1,122.50. Cash in lieu payments do not usually
include VAT. If Ms K intends to carry out the repairs and VAT is payable on those repairs, I
would expect Axa to pay the VAT added on to any insured work once Ms K has shown that
she has paid it. If Ms K were to choose this option she must do so on the understanding that
the payment will not include the cost of any further work that may come to light following the
investigations as detailed in the engineers report at points 2 and 7.Due to the history of this complaint, I think it fair for Ms K to decide which of these three
options she would prefer.
Ms K also asks that Axa repay her £361.43 that she has paid for repairs to the car since the
accident. She says they were necessary because the car was little used. As I have said I
would normally only expect Axa to pay for repairs that were a result of the accident or
caused by its mistakes. I am not persuaded at the moment that these repairs were due to
Axas mistakes, but am happy to consider further information from Ms K if she wishes to
provide it. I note that Ms Ks father has been using the car and I would not expect Axa to pay
for ongoing maintenance.
Service
Ms K also complains about the service she has received from Axa. I can see that Ms K has
received the sum of £1,025 in compensation over the last 18 months. Axa say that they have
also sent her flowers.
Ms K says that the delay and lack of communication has caused her considerable distress
and inconvenience, and I accept this. It appears that she has been the one pushing the
matter forward and from looking at Axas records there does appear to have been a
continuing lack of communication on their part.
However, Ms K has already been paid £1,025 by Axa for their poor customer service and
delays in getting the repairs done. This sum has been paid at various points throughout the
claim when Ms K has raised issues with them. Compensation isn't intended to fine or punish
a business, but is a recognition of the emotional and practical impact that a mistake can
have. I note that when our investigator considered an additional award, she was not aware
that Ms K had already received a total of £1,025 compensation. I have to look at the award
of compensation as a whole, and whilst I recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms
K, I feel that the total sum of £1,025 is fair. I therefore do not intend to make any further
award for distress and inconvenience.
I have also considered the issue of loss of use. Ms K says that she is not using her car
because she does not feel confident to drive it whilst the accident repairs are outstanding.
Whilst I understand her concerns, I have seen nothing in the engineers report that would
indicate the car is unsafe to drive, and indeed Ms Ks father has been driving the car since
the accident. A total of 1,981 miles were logged between November 2019 and September
2020. I do not, therefore, think that an award for loss of use would be fair.
Ms K has requested that Axa refund her the cost of her current insurance premium. I have
considered this but do not think it would be reasonable to do so. A payment of £1,025 has
already been made to recognise unnecessary distress and inconvenience. As mentioned
above, Ms K could have used her car, and the fact that her father has been driving the car
means that the car would have had to be insured in any event. In addition, unless Ms K had
a valid Statutory Off Road Notification (SORN) she would have to keep the car insured
whether she used it or not. 
Response to my provisional decision
Axa accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Ms K made some further comments in relation to Axas handling of her complaint and the 
conduct of the original garage. She indicated that she would like her car to be returned to the 
original garage for the repairs to be carried out as she thought this was the easiest option. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Axa accepted my provisional decision. I have read Ms Ks comments but she 
does not provide any new information which causes me to change my provisional decision. 
My provisional decision gave Ms K three options for the repair of her car. I understand that 
she would like her car repaired by Axas original approved garage. The car should be 
repaired as detailed in the engineers report. I also expect the engineer to inspect the car 
after the repairs are complete to ensure that they are completed to an acceptable standard. 
As this matter has been ongoing for some time, I expect Axa to contact Ms K as soon as 
possible to make arrangements for her car to be returned to the garage for repair. At the 
very latest, contact should be made within 28 days of the date that we notify Axa that Ms K 
accepts my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ks complaint in relation to the accident repairs to her car. I require Axa 
Insurance UK Plc to arrange for the repairs to be carried out by the original approved garage 
with a re-inspection by the engineer after they are complete. The repairs should be carried 
out as detailed in the engineers report.
I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint in relation to compensation, or for a refund of her repair 
invoice of £361.43.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman