DRN-2925934
The complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited didnt update its records and sent his new credit card to 
his old address.
What happened
Mr G says in moved address in August 2019 and updated his address details with MBNA. 
He says he was passing his old property and was given his new MBNA account card by the 
new occupier which had been there for some time. Mr G says he spoke to MBNA about this 
and was given conflicting information. He says MBNAs compensation offer doesnt go far 
enough and is concerned about wider security issues.
MBNA accepts it made a mistake and says it should have updated its records but says it 
doesnt have a record of Mr G updating his MBNA account on line as he says. It has 
apologised for the confliction information and offered £200 compensation.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it possible to be sure if Mr 
G had updated the address on line. But accepted MBNA should have updated it in any event 
as it was aware of the new address. The investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate and explained why we couldnt look at any wider issues.
Mr G doesnt accept that view and maintains the compensation offer isnt enough and says, 
whilst he may not have suffered any financial loss that could change.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that MBNA has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer.
There is no dispute here that MBNA made a mistake by not updating its records. I cant be 
sure if Mr G did update his MBNA account, but I dont think that matters as its accepted 
MBNA should have updated the address as it was aware of it. I have no doubt Mr G was 
concerned about what took place and suffered some inconvenience in getting matters sorted 
out.
The key issue is the level of compensation. Im satisfied Mr G didnt suffer any real financial 
loss and can see that he accepts that. I cant base any compensation award on what may 
take place but rather on what did. Its not our role to punish a business and overall, Im 
satisfied the £200 compensation is fair and reasonable and reflects fairly what did take 
place. I also think it unlikely Mr Gs account security has been compromised taking into 
account how much time has passed since the mistake.
I appreciate Mr G questions if there are wider security concerns. But we are not MBNAs 
regulator and so I can only look at Mr Gs complaint. Mr G has made clear that he thinks 
MBNAs compensation doesnt go far enough and so I will leave it to him to decide if he 
wishes to accept it.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that MBNA Limited has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer 
of £200. Mr Gs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman