DRN-2580865
The complaint
Mrs S complains, through her representatives  her daughters  Mrs B and Mrs P, about the
delays she experienced transferring her ISA stocks from her existing platform (the 
transferor) to TSB Bank plc (referred to as TSB).
In summary, Mrs B says:
Due to the delays the ISA value dropped by £7,230 during the Covid-19 pandemic.
TSB are responsible for the delay and financial loss.
 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 21 February 2021, part of which is recounted below and 
forms part of my final decision. In summary, I said:
I think TSB is partially responsible for the delays, but I dont think its responsible for the 
loss in value of the ISA.
 I understand that the POA was obtained by Mrs S in January 2019  jointly authorising 
her daughters Mrs B and Mrs P to act on her behalf  roughly 10 months before Mrs B
approached TSB to have it registered with the business. I also note that this was roughly 13
months before Mrs B signed the application to transfer Mrs Ss stocks to TSB, so I 
appreciate it wasnt an urgent matter.
Whilst I think Mrs B ought reasonably to have known by then whether (or not) the POA
enabled her to act (alone) on behalf of Mrs S  and if she didnt, then seek clarification from
the solicitor before going to see TSB  I dont think she did. Its also unlikely that TSB
wouldve been the only financial business that Mrs B (and Mrs P) interacted with on behalf of
Mrs S in this period, including the transferor, so they ought reasonably to have known what
they were doing before Mrs B approached TSB.
However, Im not here to consider the actions of Mrs B and whether shes at fault, or whether
it was the fault of a third-party business. Im only considering the actions of TSB in relation to
this complaint, regardless of what may (or may not) have happened with other businesses.
Therefore, none of what Mrs B ought to have known detracts from the actions of TSB, when
Mrs B approached it about transferring the ISA, which is at the heart of this complaint.
I can see that the POA jointly authorised Mrs B and Mrs P to deal with Mrs Ss property and
financial affairs. I also note that it authorised them (amongst others) to deal with her welfare
both jointly and severally. Its likely this is where the confusion has arisen, however I cant
blame TSB for this  I dont think it was its role to explain to Mrs B what the POA entailed.
Whether or not TSBs legal team were consulted  I think its likely that someone from legal
or a senior member of staff was probably contacted, even if TSB didnt have a staff legal
helpline  it seems that there was an assumption (incorrectly) made by TSB that the POA
authorised Mrs B to act alone on behalf of Mrs S both jointly and severally  and this is what
its likely to have told Mrs B. This is partly evidenced by TSBs internal (updated) note dated
December 2019 which says that Mrs B can act jointly and severally which isnt entirely
correct so far as her dealings with TSB are concerned.
Whilst TBSs decision might partly be due to Mrs B registering the POA on her own, and
subsequently acting on her own to request the transfer, its no justification for it not knowing
what authority it could and couldnt accept.
I note TSB says that notwithstanding the investigators interpretation of the POA its a
complicated document, which I agree with. However, TSB also says that the solicitors
explanation confirms that Mrs B can act alone should Mrs P be no longer nominated, which
enabled it to act on Mrs Bs signature alone, but I disagree with this interpretation. Mrs P was
still nominated and so her signature was clearly required. TSB have provided no evidence to
show that this wasnt the case  when Mrs B met with TSB  allowing it to interpret and
apply the POA differently.
Nevertheless, even if Mrs B and Mrs P had both signed the application to transfer on 11
February 2020, its unlikely to have made a material difference in the initial stages.
I note that the transferor initially couldnt find the account  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
this was down to any error by TSB  so the application was re-submitted on 14 February
2020. But for reasons unknown, the transferor didnt receive the request. On the face of the
evidence, Im satisfied that the application was sent. Its possible that there was an issue
with the post, but if that was the case, Im unable to blame TSB for the actions of a thirdparty
postal service.
I note that in due course, on 27 February 2020, Mrs B personally completed and re-sent the
form. It was received by the transferor on 6 March 2020, roughly three weeks after the initial
application was made  but I cant blame TSB for this delay.
It was at this point that the lack of Mrs Ps signature was identified by the transferor. I note
the correct signatures were supplied  although its not clear exactly when this was done or
when it was received  but the transaction was successfully completed on 16 March 2020.
I note that it only took a few days to successfully complete the transfer after all the correct
information was received. Therefore, I think its reasonable to assume that the transfer
wouldve been completed within days of 6 March 2020  which is when the transferor first
received the application form with the correct signatures.
In the absence of having all the information to hand, and subject to clarification, I think its
more likely than not the process wouldve been completed by 11 March 2020.
Whilst I appreciate that TSB has 30 days within which to complete an ISA transfer, subject to
any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to find that this transfer wouldve been
completed by 11 March 2020  five days sooner than it was  if Mrs B had been correctly
told that TSB/the transfer would need both signatures.
In the circumstances, provisionally I think TSB should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the
overall distress and inconvenience caused by the misinformation and delay.
Despite what Mrs B says, I dont think that TSB is responsible for the loss in value of the
investment. The investment value is dependent on the stockmarket, and I agree with TSB
that its not something that it can predict or control, especially in a global pandemic which is
likely to have an impact on the global stockmarket.
It also seems that the transfer was made in-specie to reduce the impact of any adverse
market movements. Even if it wasnt, Im mindful that Mrs B and Mrs P also had the option to
stop the transfer at any point, if they had concerns. I dont TSB was obliged to offer any
advice at this point.I appreciate Mrs S (and Mrs P) will be very unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to
the investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, even though Ive partially
upheld the complaint, Im unable to say that TSB is responsible for the loss of investment
value.
I realise my decision isnt what Mrs S wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im
unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
Mrs B responded but disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, she made the 
following points:
Shes appalled and insulted by the recommendation to pay Mrs S only £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Towards the end of 2019 her father passed away, so her mother wanted her finances 
accessible. One day in branch she picked up a Cash ISA brochure and the teller told 
her that TSB could arrange a transfer so her mother wouldnt lose her tax allowance. 
She decided to go in and start the ball rolling so had a couple of meetings (on her 
own) to register the POA and transfer the ISA to TSB. Mrs S attended one of the 
meetings in branch, but she cant recall which one  it was the day that the manager 
raised questions over whether Mrs P would also need to sign the transfer application 
 but after being on the phone with its legal department said it was fine. She has no 
reason to lie about this. 
She doesnt know the process so doesnt know why Mrs S didnt sign the relevant 
forms when she was in branch  her mothers still more than capable of making her 
own decisions. 
Apart from the mix-up with the POA, TSB also had issues with the transfer form. She 
doesnt know why the transferor couldnt locate the account when she called up it 
was able to do so immediately. 
If TSB got the issue right the first time, it wouldve lessened the delay. The solicitor 
even said that it wasnt her place to know about the POA  the business shouldve 
known. 
A week or so later when they went to another bank staff insisted that Mrs P sign the 
documents which she did with no issue.  
She wishes shed done the transfer herself. The staff at TSB were inexperienced and 
lied to cover their backs. It failed to transfer the funds efficiently leading to losses to 
Mrs S.
Now she feels let down by our service who vulnerable people rely on for help and 
support.  
She didnt expect a full settlement but somewhere along the middle. 
TSB responded but had nothing further to add.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
I partially uphold this complaint. I think TSB is partially responsible for the delays, but I dont 
think its responsible for the loss in value of the ISA. So, in the circumstances, I think it 
should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
misinformation and delays. I dont consider that any new points have been raised, and the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me in my provisional decision. In other words, Im satisfied 
that Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision. 
I still disagree with TSBs interpretation of the POA and agree with Mrs B that if TSB got the 
issue right the first time, it wouldve lessened the delay.
However, as I explained in my provisional decision much of the initial delay was caused by 
matters outside of TSBs control, such the transferor not finding the account and not 
receiving the application. In other words, even if Mrs B and Mrs P had both signed the 
application to transfer on 11 February 2020, its unlikely to have made a material difference 
in the initial stages.
However, in the absence of having all the information to hand, and subject to clarification  
which no party has sought to challenge  I think its more likely than not the process 
wouldve been completed by 11 March 2020  five days after the issue regarding the missing 
signature was identified by the transferor.  
Whilst I appreciate that TSB has 30 days within which to complete an ISA transfer, I still 
think that this transfer wouldve been completed by 11 March 2020  five days sooner than it 
was  if Mrs B had been correctly told that TSB/the transferor would need both signatures.
Its against this background that I award Mrs S £100 compensation for the delay and 
misinformation. 
Despite what Mrs B says, I still dont think that TSB is responsible for the loss in value of the
investment. The investment value is dependent on the stockmarket, and I agree with TSB
that its not something that it can predict or control, especially in a global pandemic which is
likely to have an impact on the global stockmarket.
Im also mindful that Mrs B and Mrs P also had the option to stop the transfer at any point, if 
they had concerns. I dont think TSB was obliged to offer any advice at this point.
  
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold this 
complaint. 
TSB Bank plc should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman