DRN-2559356
The complaint
Mr J complains that Wentworth Employee Benefits Limited (Wentworth) miscalculated the 
maximum pension contribution he could make to claim higher rate tax relief. He says he 
has lost out financially due to the advice Wentworth gave him.
What happened
Mr J was a member of his employers Group Personal Pension plan (GPP). There was a 
client agreement between Mr Js employer and Wentworth setting out the services 
provided by Wentworth. Wentworth provided the GPPs primary administration service 
and acted as an intermediary between the employer, GPP members and the schemes 
provider. One of the services Wentworth provided was to provide scheme members with 
help, guidance and with information on the GPP.
Mr J met with a Wentworth representative in June 2017. The discussions concerned how 
Mr J could maximise his pension contributions in the tax year 2017/18 using his carry 
forward unused annual allowance. Further, how he could claim tax relief on the proposed 
pension contributions as he was a higher rate tax payer.
Wentworth carried out a calculation. It set this out in a spreadsheet attached to an email it 
sent to Mr J in August 2017. Wentworth asked Mr J to send a cheque made payable to the 
provider for a single net pension contribution of £44,459.93 and provided a draft letter for 
him to submit to his local tax office, so he could reclaim the additional tax relief of 20% as 
he was a higher rate tax payer. Mr J sent on this payment and Wentworth passed it on to 
the provider. 
In May 2018, Mr J contacted Wentworth and asked them what he could contribute to the 
GPP for that tax year. Following several email exchanges, Wentworth provided the total 
unused annual allowance available to him in a similar format as it had done the previous 
year. 
When writing to Mr J, Wentworth stated he was able to pay up to 100% of his salary as a 
pension contribution subject to having sufficient unused annual allowance to be able to 
make the payment. Wentworth told Mr J he could pay a single net pension contribution of 
up to £58,397.56. Mr J paid this amount across to the pension provider, with Wentworths 
assistance.
When Mr J later came to file his tax return, he discovered he was not eligible to claim 
higher rate tax relief on the single contribution he made in 2018/19. Mr J said he suffered a 
tax charge of around £2879. 
He raised this situation with another Wentworth representative and said he was told that 
he shouldve been able to claim the tax relief and that it would investigate further. 
Wentworth later explained it couldnt correct the transaction and it couldnt do anything 
to change Mr Js position in relation to the tax charge. Wentworth said that higher rate 
tax relief had been applied in line with HMRC rules and the application of these rules 
was outside of Wentworths remit.
Mr J raised a complaint with Wentworth. He said he relied on the advice provided to him by 
Wentworth in the meeting in June 2017. He explained in tax year 2017/18, he was able to 
claim the additional tax relief based on the advice given at that time. He said he therefore 
understood that Wentworth was also providing him with the same advice in 2018/19. Mr J 
was of the view that Wentworth had miscalculated the maximum pension contributions he 
could make in tax year 2018/19, and that it was evident from previous email exchanges that 
his plans were always to make contributions to claim higher tax relief. He believes that 
Wentworth should compensate him for his financial loss.
Wentworth responded to say Mr J hadnt made it clear in his emails that he only wanted to 
make a contribution up to the limit he was eligible for higher rate tax relief on. It said it 
supplied the information and calculations based on what hed asked for, which was how 
much his unused annual allowance was. It referred to two emails:
November 2018
Could you please let me know what I could pay in this tax year based on the income
as above and the available unused allowance.
May 2019
Not urgent but when you have a chance could you calculate the maximum I could
pay into the fund in this FY.
Wentworth did not accept that it had done anything wrong, so Mr J referred his complaint to 
our service. Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and did not recommend that it 
was upheld.
Our investigator concluded that although Mr J relied on the calculations provided by 
Wentworth -believing them to show the amount upon which he was eligible to claim higher 
rate relief tax, in the investigators view, he didnt consider that Wentworth had provided   
Mr J with advice or information about his entitlement to higher rate tax relief on his 
contribution. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view. He said, in summary:
Wentworth effectively took on the role of advising him on his tax affairs when it gave 
him advice in 2017/18. He therefore expected and understood that this would be an 
on-going service. A precedent had been set.
If this was outside of Wentworths advice remit, then Wentworths adviser misled him 
into thinking he was receiving advice. It also misled him about the services Wentworth was contracted to supply. 
If Wentworth provided advice outside of the terms of the service agreement, it should 
be held responsible as it gave Mr J this advice, and it seems Wentworth may have 
known it was acting outsider its remit.
Wentworths adviser was aware of Mr Js income when he made the first correct
calculation in 2017/18. Wentworth is aware of Mr Js salary because it receives a 
percentage of that salary each month from his employer. The fact that Mr J had 
income from sources reduced the loss he suffered.
There was a breakdown in communication when Wentworth advisers changed. 
Wentworth is responsible because it did not communicate any changes to the scope 
of its responsibility towards Mr J.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not going to uphold Mr Js complaint. My reasons are largely the same as our 
investigators. Ill explain why here.
I have first considered whether Wentworth was providing Mr J with advice in relation to both 
the unused annual allowance available in 2018/19.and whether he was eligible to claim high 
rate tax relief 
Client agreement
I have looked at the client agreement first. The client agreement was between Mr Js 
employer and Wentworth. It said this:
Members are able to contact Wentworth at any time for help and guidance on their 
pension plan, this will include:
how the plan works
tax relief
contributions
investment queries
retirement age selection
death benefits
leaving service options
transfers (may be subject to an additional charge which will be agreed with 
the member prior to work commencing)We will provide pension meetings at your offices where any member (new or existing) 
is free to attend to discuss their pension plan with us, to raise any queries and to request 
information on relevant legislation or regulations
So, I think it clear from the client agreement that Wentworths services didnt extend to 
providing tailored advice, only information. I note the costs of providing the services set 
out in the client agreement were all paid for by Mr Js employer.
Mr J asked Wentworth  the following question: 
 Could you please let me know what I could pay in this tax year based on the income
as above and the available unused allowance.
Wentworth gave him information about this based on his contributions and salary.
Did Wentworth provide Mr J with advice?
Wentworth said it couldnt provide a calculation of the maximum pension contribution 
amount payable to obtain higher rate tax relief as this wouldve meant it completing a full 
assessment of Mr Js circumstances, including his income, other earnings and tax code. It 
said it did not collect this information as it was not providing advice and did not provide this 
service to scheme members through the client agreement. 
Ive not seen anything to show that Mr J was a private client of Wentworths. Where 
financial advice is being provided, I would expect to see in writing the scope of the advice 
and the cost of providing it, The adviser would then usually carry out a fact find to gather 
relevant information about the individuals circumstances, needs and objectives, before 
providing the advice. I cant see that this happened here.
Did Wentworth by its actions mislead Mr J into believing he was receiving advice from it?
I have gone onto consider, whether through its actions, Wentworth effectively led Mr J to 
believe in 2018/19 that either it was providing tax advice or that it had provided tax advice 
in the past, and so he could expect to receive this in the future.  
As per the client agreement, Wentworth was contracted to provide Mr J with information 
about pension matters, this included information about contributions and tax relief to help 
and guide him. 
Mr J had received information from Wentworth about the maximum unused annual 
allowance figures in 2017/18, But, like with the 2018/19 figure I cant see this was based 
on a full analysis of his total earnings. It seems to have been based on information 
available from his employer and the provider about his contributions. He relied on the 
calculations provided by Wentworth when making pension contributions and believed 
them to be the amount upon which he was eligible to claim higher rate tax relief on. It 
seems in 2017/18 he didnt suffer any financial loss relying on the information provided 
by Wentworth. But in 2018/19, he discovered the pension contribution hed made in tax 
year 2018/19 was more than what he was actually eligible for.Ive noted that Mr J believes he was provided with advice in 2017/18. Further, that, as a 
result a precedent was set and his expectations were raised in relation to what he could 
expect to receive from Wentworth in future years. However, even if I were to reach the 
conclusion that Wentworth went beyond its remit in 2017/18, I dont agree that this meant 
it had to continue to act in that way, particularly as this would be inconsistent with what 
was set out in the client agreement. 
Like our investigator, Ive looked at the email exchanges between Mr J and Wentworth from 
2016 to 2019. Its clear from these that Mr J did rely on the information he was given by 
Wentworth to inform his decisions. I also accept that Mr J believed he was receiving advice 
from Wentworth about pension matters.
I dont consider that was a two-way understanding of the situation, or that Wentworth 
went beyond the scope of the client agreement when it provided him with the information 
he requested in 2018/2019 about his unused annual allowance. I agree with our 
investigator, as I see it, Wentworth provided Mr J with the information hed requested 
being the maximum he could contribute to the GPP using any unused annual allowance 
including carry forward. So, I cant see that Wentworth has done anything wrong here.
I accept that Mr J expected Wentworth to realise from past dealings with him that if he 
asked them to provide the maximum amount, this included what he could contribute in 
order to claim higher rate tax relief. But looking at the actual wording of the requests for 
information, I dont think this was made clear. As our investigator explained, the annual 
allowance and tax relief work separately from one another. 
So, it follows that I cant see that Wentworth provided Mr J with advice in 2018/19 
leading to his financial loss. Neither can I see that it misled him into believing it was 
providing him with advice. In relation to the information requested, I think Wentworth 
responded in a clear and fair way based on what it was asked. So, I dont think that 
Wentworth if responsible for any financial loss Mr J may have suffered in relation to his 
tax situation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman