DRN-2645187
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided him with unaffordable loans. 
He says these loans left him in a position where he had to take out further loans to make his 
payments.  
  
Background
L2G provided Mr H with a loan for £500 in August 2018. Mr H repaid this loan using some of 
the proceeds of loan 2 which was for £771.33 and taken in November 2018. One of our 
adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G hadnt acted unfairly in relation to 
loan 1. But he also thought that L2G shouldnt have provided loan 2 as proportionate checks 
would have shown it was unaffordable. 
Mr H didnt disagree with our adjudicator. But L2G did and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. As the parties appear to have accepted the conclusions reached on 
loan 1. This decision is only looking at whether L2G acted fairly and reasonably when 
providing loan 2 to Mr H.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr H would be able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would be 
able to repay loan 2 in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this meant that 
L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr H undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr H prior to 
providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. L2Gs checks suggested Mr H 
had more than enough to cover the payments to this loan. Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But this was Mr Hs second application for 
credit, on such disadvantageous terms, with L2G in a period of a few months. And L2Gs 
credit checks showed a significant amount of payday lending. 
Bearing in mind these circumstances, I think its reasonable and proportionate to have 
expected L2G to have taken additional steps to verify the information it received. And I think 
that L2G needed to take additional steps to verify Mr Hs actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr H with loan 2 were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mr H would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mr H would have been unable 
to sustainably repay loan 2.
L2G was required to establish whether Mr H could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr H was in 
a cycle of payday lending. Much of his income was being used to meet his living expenses 
and the rest to meet commitments to existing creditors. So I think the proportionate checks 
would have shown L2G that he was likely to use this loan in the same way which meant he 
was unlikely to be able to repay it without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse 
consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr H would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr H was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way.
Did Mr H lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr H paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, L2G should put things right for Mr H by:removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £771.33 
originally lent. L2G should treat any payments made, whether to it or any third-party 
debt party purchaser, should the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, should there be any, 
from the date they were made by Mr H to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
If L2G sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third party debt purchaser, it either 
needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the necessary adjustments; 
pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary adjustments; or pay Mr H an 
amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman