DRN-3022092
The complaint
Mr A says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr A took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go as set out below. 
loan taken out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, £
1 14/12/2018 250 18 56.64 1019.52
2 25/06/2019 431.18 18 98.55 1773.9
He used funds from loan 2 to repay loan 1. I understand there remains an outstanding 
balance on loan 2.
Mr A says the loans were unaffordable for him and as it was hard to make the repayments 
he had to borrow more. 
Our investigator found that the loans should not have been given. He said Loans 2 Go hadnt
completed proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised the loans would
most likely not be sustainably affordable for Mr A.
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying, in summary, its checks were proportionate given the size of 
the loans and the monthly repayments, and the results from Mr As credit check. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr A required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr A. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr A. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr As loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr A before it approved the loans. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It checked his declared income using an 
income verification tool. And it checked Mr As credit file both times to understand his 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It added a buffer of 10% to his 
expenditure. I cant see it asked what either loan was for. From these checks combined 
Loans 2 Go concluded Mr A had enough disposable income for the loans to be affordable.
Loans 2 Go argues these checks were proportionate considering the size of the loans, the 
monthly repayments and the level of Mr As disposable income. Also given the results from 
both credit checks it carried out. I agree that for the size of the loans and the value of the 
monthly repayments it asked for enough information  and did enough to verify it, but I dont 
agree that it went to do enough given the results of its credit checks. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
The results from the credit check Loans 2 Go carried out showed that Mr A had four active 
payday loans at the time. It argues that these were all up-to-date. This is accurate but I think 
further scrutiny of the credit check should have given the lender concern. It shows Mr A had 
been using high-cost short-term credit consistently for over two years. And whilst he was 
managing to repay these loans I think its fair to conclude it was most likely he was only doing 
so by borrowing again. Arguably just with this information alone I think Loans 2 Go should 
have declined his application. To meet its obligations as a responsible lender it needed to 
check Mr A would be able to sustainably repay the loan without borrowing  and on balance 
I dont think it can reasonably argue this is what Mr As credit history showed would be most 
likely. At the very least, the results should have alerted it to carry out further checks into 
Mr As financial position.Mr A has supplied his bank statements from the months prior to his application. I am not 
saying Loans 2 Go had to review these but its one way it could have better understood his 
financial position before lending  and they allow me to see what better checks at the time 
would most likely have shown.
As the investigator set out in detail, the statements show Mr A was having to borrow each 
month to balance the gap in his income versus his committed expenditure. In addition to the 
payday loans the lender saw on the credit check, the statements show Mr A was also using 
a line of high-cost running credit. In the two months before his application for loan 1 his total 
high-cost borrowings were equivalent to around 50% of his salary, and he was clearly in a 
cycle of borrowing to repay and/or to cover his priority bills.  So if Loans 2 Go had carried out 
further checks I think it would have concluded there was a high risk Mr A would be unable to 
sustainably repay this loan.
Loan 2
Mr A returned to Loans 2 Go only six months later and whilst he was still repaying loan 1.  
The lender checked updates of all the same information and the new credit check showed 
Mr A had taken out a further three payday loans in the prior two months. So there were 
again signs that the borrowing wouldnt be sustainably affordable. Loans 2 Go knew Mr A 
was still reliant on high-cost credit to manage his finances and there were no indications he 
was getting out of this cycle. 
CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out that the lender must consider the customers ability to make 
repayments under the agreement without the customer having to borrow to meet the 
repayments; and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation (amongst other things). I think Loans 2 Go failed to meet that 
obligation in this case; it should have realised continuing to lend to Mr A would most likely be 
harmful.   
So even without carrying out further checks for loan 2, I think Loans 2 Go ought to have 
declined this application if it was to make a fair lending decision.  
Loans 2 Go points to another decision this service made that it feels supports its view that its 
checks were proportionate - and also that they didnt evidence it should ask for more 
information. But I can only comment on the merits of this case. Each case is reviewed based 
on its individual circumstances and for this reason the outcome of cases that may have 
some seemingly similar characteristics can vary. It also raised that it shouldnt be held 
entirely responsible if Mr A wasnt forthcoming about his true financial circumstances. But 
that doesnt change Loans 2 Gos obligations as a responsible lender.  
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to Mr A.
I dont find that it acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A in any other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr A to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of being given both 
loans. The payments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount. 
If reworking Mr As loan accounts results in him having effectively made paymentsabove the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 2 
Go should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr A, bearing in mind its
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions. Loans 2
Go should not pursue any outstanding balance made up of capital it has already
written-off.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr As complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must now put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman