DRN-1933964
 
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave her incorrect information about when the 
early repayment charge (ERC) period on her mortgage would end.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
HSBC has admitted the mortgage adviser gave Ms B incorrect information in his initial email, 
so I dont need to make a finding on that. 
Theres a dispute about when the adviser corrected that mis-information and I agree with our 
investigator that it wasnt in the meeting of 13 February as HSBC believed. Thats because, 
based on the content of an email the adviser sent Ms B after the 13 February meeting, it 
seems he was still expecting a rate change application to go ahead. That wouldnt make 
sense if hed already told Ms B about the ERC on her existing mortgage.
When a business makes a mistake like this the correct remedy is to put the consumer back 
in the position they would have been in if the mis-information had not been given, not in the 
position they would have been in had it been true. If Ms B had been given the correct 
information, shed have been aware sooner that shed incur an ERC if she paid off her 
current mortgage (either by remortgaging elsewhere or by moving to a new rate with HSBC) 
before 31 March 2022.
The mortgage Ms B took out in 2017 has an ERC until 31 March 2022. That was the contract 
she entered into and theres no grounds for me to order HSBC to vary that, either by waiving 
the ERC so she can remortgage elsewhere or by switching her to a lower rate without the 
ERC being incurred.
Ms B has confirmed she didnt incur any costs as part of the failed remortgage application, 
so shes not suffered any financial loss due to the mis-information that was given.
Ms B did suffer a loss of expectation and was put to some trouble by HSBC as she thought 
she could remortgage elsewhere. HSBC initially paid £100 compensation for that, but our 
investigator thought £200 was a more appropriate amount (which HSBC accepted). Having 
considered everything, Im satisfied £200 is a fair compensation amount for this complaint. 
Ms B has said more should be paid because shes a long-standing customer of HSBC, and 
she believes HSBC should learn to serve the interests of its customers and listen to their 
experiences with the respect they deserve.
Were not the regulator and Ive no power to fine or punish a business. Our awards arent 
punitive, and I cant order a business to learn and listen as Ms B wants. All I can do is look at 
an individual dispute and decide what needs to be done to put it right (if anything). The 
length of time a consumer has been a customer of a business has no bearing on the level of 
award I make, as that would be grossly unfair on consumers that chose to exercise their 
right to move their banking arrangements around regularly.
HSBC made a mistake and whilst Ms B was put to some inconvenience (and given raised 
expectations) because of that, shes not suffered any financial loss. For that, bearing in mind 
awards made in similar cases, £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay Ms B a further £100 on 
top of the £100 its already paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman