DRN-4053970
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd wouldnt refund a cash withdrawal he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr C says that his card was taken and used by a fraudster to withdraw £100 from his 
account. He is unhappy that Revolut wouldnt refund this and that it didnt think he had taken 
sufficient care of his security details.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr C said he thinks his card 
was taken when he was in a restaurant. The card was used at a cash machine to take out 
£100. This required the PIN and there were no incorrect PIN attempts. Our investigator said 
hed have expected a fraudster to take out as much money as possible and there were no 
other attempts to take out cash. There was also no point of compromise as Mr C said he 
hadnt written the PIN down or told anyone what it was.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he had his card 
stolen and had followed the right steps and reported this to the police. He couldnt 
understand why he was being blamed for what happened. CCTV would show that this wasnt 
him and there were many ways in which someone could have obtained his PIN.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And it wasnt authorised Mr C 
wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr C authorise the payment on the account? 
Im satisfied from the information provided that the cash withdrawal was authenticated when 
the chip on the genuine card was read, and the correct PIN entered. The issue is whether  
Mr C consented to the payment. 
There were then no recent prior payments using the card PIN. But Mr C said that he had 
checked his balance at a cash point before he went into the restaurant. It isnt impossible 
that his PIN was observed then and that his card somehow taken. He refers to someone 
acting suspiciously in the restaurant and that it seems that his card and phone were on the 
table. I also take into account what he says about reporting this.
Ive noted that there was more money available in this account at the time. And I think that a 
fraudster who had gone to the trouble of obtaining a card and PIN would be most likely to 
take out as much money as quickly as possible as they risked detection. I can see from the 
records provided by Revolut that the card wasnt cancelled until the next day. And that there 
were no other actual or attempted cash withdrawals or declined payments. Its a matter for 
the authorities to obtain any third-party CCTV. But even if that were available it often doesnt 
resolve whether the person withdrawing money was acting with consent.
Ive balanced all the factors here. And Im afraid I dont have sufficient evidence to find that 
Revolut should refund this money as an unauthorised payment. I can appreciate that Mr C 
will be very disappointed with my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman