DRN-2221320
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that the cheque they tried to pay into an account at another 
bank wasnt paid by Lloyds Bank PLC.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C paid a cheque from his joint account with Lloyds into another account in his 
name. He has explained he did this over the counter on 10 January 2020. The 
cheque was for a large amount and Lloyds has explained that before a cheque of this 
amount would be paid additional checks are required, specifically contact with the 
customer over the phone to confirm the validity of the cheque. It is reasonable that 
Lloyds has checks in place to protect customers and as Lloyds followed their policy 
regarding this cheque - that is not paying it until contact had been made - I cannot 
say Mr C was treated unfairly.
Lloyds has also explained that if contact isnt made the cheque is then re-presented. 
This happened on 15 January and then again on 17 January  at which point the 
cheque was paid. There was a delay of four days in the cheque being paid, but I 
accept that Lloyds followed its process regarding the presentation and payment of 
the cheque.
There is conflicting evidence regarding the call attempts made by Lloyds. Mr C has 
said Lloyds didnt try to contact him on 13 and 15 January. Lloyds has said that it 
called Mr Cs home number on 13 January but there was no answer and then it tried 
the mobile number but there was an issue. It says a further call to the mobile was 
attempted on 15 January and then successful contact was made on the home phone 
on 17 January. Lloyds has accepted that mistakes were made regarding the mobile 
calls. I find it more likely than not that Mr C didnt receive the calls on his mobile but 
that the attempt to call Mr C at home on 13 January took place. Contact was 
successfully made on 17 January at which time the cheque was paid.  
So, while I accept that Lloyds followed its process regarding the processing of the 
cheque, I find that it didnt provide Mr C with the service it should have when trying to 
contact him to confirm the validity of the cheque.
Because the cheque wasnt paid on 13 January, Mr C received a letter about this and 
contacted Lloyds to understand the issue. I have listened to the calls and read the 
notes about this contact. Mr C wasnt provided a clear reason as to why his cheque 
hadnt been paid and confusion was caused regarding the information he had 
received from the bank he was paying the money into. 
At this time, it was also discovered that his and Mrs Cs specimen signatures were no 
longer on file. While this doesnt appear to have caused an issue regarding the 
payment of this cheque it was another failing. New specimen signatures were 
provided which resolved this issue, but this was an inconvenience to Mr and Mrs C. 
Lloyds offered to pay £100 compensation and to consider any costs incurred through 
the process. I have looked though the notes and can see that Mr C said his calls 
didnt cost him anything and as the cheque was paid on 17 January the loss of four 
days of interest wasnt material. As I have no evidence of financial loss, I have 
considered what amount of compensation is reasonable given the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C was caused.
I understand the points Mr C has made about the cost of his time and the amount of 
time he had to spend trying to resolve this issue. He has also noted previous issues 
with Lloyds. When considering compensation, I am only considering the issues that 
Mr C has experienced in relation to this complaint, that is the payment of his cheque. 
In this case, Mr C was caused inconvenience because he and Mrs C needed to 
provide new specimen signatures. There were issues contacting Mr C on his mobile 
in order to confirm the cheque should be paid and then Mr C wasnt provided with the 
service he should have been when he contacted Lloyds about the issue. While I 
appreciate the frustration and inconvenience the issue caused, the cheque was paid 
on 17 January and I accept, on balance, that a call was attempted to the home phone 
on 13 January. Lloyds acknowledged the mistakes it made. Based on this I find that 
the offer made by Lloyds of £100 compensation is reasonable. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C wants but for the reasons set out above I find that 
the offer made by Lloyds to pay £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should, as it has offered pay Mr and Mrs C £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020. 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman