DRN-4132631
The complaint
Mrs and Mr K complain that Paragon Bank Plc failed to help them access their savings. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
the same reasons. I will explain why. 
When thinking about compensation and what is a fair amount for a business to pay, our 
service must take into account all of the consumers individual circumstances and decide on 
what we believe to be a fair and reasonable outcome. In this case, Mrs and Mr K have 
explained that they wanted to access their funds before Christmas, one of the most 
financially stressful times of the year. While I agree that Paragon cannot be held responsible 
for postal strikes, I do feel they could have helped Mrs and Mr K access their money sooner.
When Mr K called Paragon on 12 December 2022, he was told there was no other option but 
to send the OTP in the post. Mr K said he also asked that if the OTP had to be sent by post, 
could it be sent by guaranteed delivery. Again he was told it couldnt, however I feel this was 
a very reasonable and sensible request given the strikes and the fact it was during the 
festive period.
In fact, Paragon did end up making an exception and they were able to override the usual 
process on 20 December. I believe this could have been done at the time Mr K first 
contacted them on 12 December 2022. While Paragon have said the call handler wouldnt 
have had the authority to do so, I believe they could have escalated the matter more quickly. 
Paragon tried to call Mr K once to let him know he could access the funds but werent able to 
speak to him and so left a voicemail saying they would try to call back within 30 minutes, and 
by the end of the day. They didnt do this and have admitted they could have done more to 
let Mr K know that he and Mrs K could access the funds before Christmas. 
Because Paragon didnt do anything further to contact Mrs and Mr K, they were unaware 
that they had access to their funds until they received a letter in January 2023. Given the 
issue with the first OTP being delayed, I find it reasonable that Paragon should have 
assumed the letter wouldnt get to them before Christmas.
Because of this, I agree that £150 in total should be paid to cover the stress and 
inconvenience experienced. While I accept that postal strikes are out of Paragons control, 
they still have a duty to act fairly and reasonably, and I dont think they did here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Paragon Bank Plc should pay Mrs and Mr K 
a total of £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman