DRN-3373727
The complaint
Miss D complains that a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was not of satisfactory quality and 
was mis-sold to her.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party but, for ease, Ill refer to everything as 
being said by Miss D.
What happened
In February 2017, Miss D obtained a second-hand car through a finance agreement with 
MBFS. When Miss D returned the car at the end of the agreement, MBFS arranged an 
independent inspection. Miss D says the inspector pointed out damage to the front of the car 
and told her the car had been involved in an accident.
Miss D says she wasnt made aware of this before she obtained the car. She says she 
wouldnt have agreed to go ahead if shed known the car had been involved in an accident. 
She says the start/stop function didnt work properly throughout the four years she had the 
car, and this was likely due to the damage caused by the accident. She wants compensation 
for being supplied with a car which had serious safety concerns.
MBFS said the supplying garage wasnt aware when it supplied the car that it might have 
been involved in an accident. And that a visual check before the car was supplied didnt note 
any damage or paint issues.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
car had been mis-sold. She thought the reported damage was cosmetic and that Miss D had 
full use of the car for the duration of the finance agreement.
Miss D didnt agree saying, in summary, that the independent inspection evidences that the 
car had been in a major crash.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Misrepresentation of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Miss D. If it was, and if I thought Miss D would not have proceeded with 
the deal if shed been aware of the true facts, then I would think MBFS was responsible and 
Id ask it to take some further action.
The supplying garage says it wasnt aware that the car had previously been involved in an 
accident. Theres nothing in its known history to evidence an accident and damage caused 
by an accident wasnt identified during a pre-supply check and service. The independent 
inspection which took place at the end of the finance agreement identified some damage to 
the front bumper and some poorly completed paint repairs. But theres nothing to evidence 
any structural damage to the car. And, whilst the identified damage may have been caused 
by an accident, it most likely has been caused through bumps and scrapes over the lifetime 
of the vehicle. 
I dont find that the supplying garage knew the car had been involved in an accident; or that 
there was any damage to the car at the point of supply which reasonably should have led the 
garage to conclude the car had been involved in an accident. And, whilst I dont doubt what 
she says, Ive not seen evidence to show that this was of particular importance to Miss D  
for example that she asked about the cars history, including any accidents, during the sales 
process. For these reasons, I cant conclude that the car was misrepresented by the 
supplying garage. And I dont find there were any serious safety issues with the car as 
Miss D claims  she was able to safely drive it for four years.
Quality of the car
The relevant law also says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory.
Miss D told us the stop/start function didnt work properly for the duration of the agreement. 
But shes not been able to supply evidence of the fault or of a complaint to the supplying 
garage or MBFS. Shes been able to drive the car for the duration of the agreement. In the 
circumstances I dont find the car wasnt fit for purpose or of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman