The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mr D says AXA mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr D opened a store card account in a shop in November 2001. At the same time, he took 
out a PPI policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Ds card each 
month if hed made a successful claim for injury or sickness, or if he lost his job. It also 
included some purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, she thought that 
Mr Ds circumstances when he took the PPI out, and the cover he already had at the time, 
meant that he didnt need the policy enough to make its benefits worth what it cost him. So 
she didnt think Mr D would have taken the policy if hed had clearer information about how 
much the policy cost and how much it might pay out. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds told us that when he opened the store card account, hed been working for his 
employer for many years. He says he was in a senior management position, was very close 
to the owner of the business and was very well thought of. He believes that hed have 
received full pay indefinitely if hed been off sick. 
Mr D has provided evidence that hed experienced a serious medical emergency in early 
2001. Hes told us that he was off work for many months after that. And hes provided 
evidence which Im satisfied, on balance, shows that his pay was unaffected by this 
prolonged period of sick leave.
DRN-2117175Mr D hasnt been able to get confirmation from his employer of his contractual sick leave 
entitlement at the time when he opened the account. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely, based on the information I have. 
In this particular case, I find what Mr D says about his likely generous sick pay persuasive. 
I accept that its possible that his employer might not have paid him indefinitely if hed been 
off sick. But I think its not unlikely, on balance, that hed have continued to receive full sick 
pay for a year or more. 
I dont think AXA set out the costs and benefits of the PPI policy clearly enough. If Mr D had 
made a successful claim on the policy for injury or sickness, the longest it would have paid 
out for was 12 months. Given what I accept is likely would have been unusually generous 
benefits from his employer, I dont think its likely that Mr D would have thought it worth the 
additional expense of taking out the PPI if hed had clearer information about its cost and 
benefits. And I dont think the other types of cover provided by the policy would have made a 
difference to his decision that the policy was poor value for him.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr D in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So 
AXA should:
A. Find out how much Mr D wouldve owed when he closed his store card account 
if the PPI policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged 
on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr D owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. Add simple interest on the difference between what Mr D would have owed 
when he closed his account, from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
C. If, when AXA works out what Mr D would have owed each month without PPI, 
Mr D paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mr D would have owed AXA something on his card. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.*
D. AXA should tell Mr D what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr D that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
*H.M. Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman