DRN-3826759
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim against 
his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W reported a storm damaged his garage in 2021. AXA accepted the claim, and, despite 
delays, cash settled it based on their preferred supplier rates. They say Mr W started repairs 
before authorisation and the quotes he provided were excessive and included betterment. 
Mr W says AXA delayed the claim after their surveyor attended, and he provided a quote, in 
December 2021. He says the garage was unsafe  supported by AXAs surveyors report  
and he was concerned further damage to his neighbours linked garage could occur, and 
costs increase. He says he was left with no option but to start works due to AXAs tardy 
handling of the claim. He complained to AXA about the way they handled and settled it. 
AXA responded to it in May 2022 saying the claim wasnt handled as expected and paid Mr 
W £150 compensation. They maintained, however, the claim was settled fairly. Mr W 
remained unhappy and approached our Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator recommended it be upheld. He thought Mr W acted reasonably by starting 
the repairs when he did due to the way it was handled. He recommended AXA settled the 
claim based on the market rates available to Mr W, not their preferred rates, and pay Mr W a 
further £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
AXA responded disagreeing. They said, broadly, the garage didnt require a full rebuild, Mr 
Ws quotes were excessive, and they settled it fairly. As they didnt agree the case was 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have raised several points in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each 
one. Were an informal Service and so focus on the pertinent points. 
Was Mr Ws claim a valid claim? 
Yes. AXAs surveyors December 2021 report suggests they communicated to Mr W during 
this visit the claim was valid. AXA subsequently accepted and settled the claim, so it was a 
valid one. 
What does the policy say about how AXA will settle a claim? 
It says AXA will repair, replace, or cash settle the claim. It also says where AXA can offer a 
repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but a cash settlement is agreed, the cash 
settlement amount will not exceed the amount they would have paid their preferred supplier. 
Mr W says he was left to provide AXA with quotes and later, in April 2022, received a cash 
settlement that was far too low. He also says he wasnt provided with any other options, and 
the claim notes support this was the case. AXA say they wouldnt have opted to undertake 
the repairs because of the contents of the quotes Mr W provided in any case. So, I dont 
think it was fair for AXA to cash settle the claim based on their preferred supplier rates in this 
case. 
Whether it was reasonable for Mr W to start repairs when he did 
Mr W says he was concerned over the safety of the garage, potential damage being caused 
to his neighbours linked garage, and costs rising, amongst other things. I think his concerns 
were reasonable and justified. I say this because AXAs surveyor also reported the garage 
became unsafe following the storm, the roof was compromised due to the wall coming down 
 which needed replacing, along with the front and side walls needing to be rebuilt. 
Ive also reviewed photos of the damage which suggest the storm caused substantial 
damage. It can be seen that only a portion of the left-hand wall referred to by the surveyor 
remained. So, as above, Im satisfied his concerns were reasonable  he says he was eager 
for repairs to start, and AXA delayed matters due to the way they handled it. AXA 
acknowledged their handling of things when paying Mr W £150 compensation. 
Whether AXA should cover his reasonable costs hes now out of pocket for 
As per the policy terms, AXA had the option to cash settle the claim based on their preferred 
supplier rates if either a repair or replace is offered. The claim notes dont support that was 
the case here, so I dont think their cash settlement amount they offered Mr W in 2022 
reached a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr W was faced with delays and poor claim handling and felt he had to make a decision. I 
find his decision was reasonable here due to AXAs failings. He instructed a builder  that 
provided the cheapest quote  to start the works due to his concerns over the safety of the 
garage, and potential for further damage and costs to occur. I dont think its fair Mr W should 
be out of pocket as the result of making this decision, because I think it was a reasonable 
one for him to make. 
I note AXA say the garage didnt require the extensive works the builder quoted for. Their 
surveyor reported the roof needed removal and replacement, the front and side walls 
needed to be rebuilt, and debris removed. AXA say their surveyors are experienced in 
handling such claims  which I dont doubt. The surveyor noted they were aware Mr W had a 
builder visiting the following day to provide a quote. So, its fair to say the surveyor ought to 
have informed Mr W during their visit what repairs were in scope, how they should be 
achieved, and the options available to AXA under the policy to settle it. The claim notes dont 
support this occurred. 
Mr Ws builder assessed the damage and considered further damage would occur once 
parts of the garage were removed. This doesnt seem unreasonable based on photos Ive 
reviewed. So, Im not satisfied Mr Ws builders quote was excessive or unreasonable. I note 
both parties accept the initial quotes included betterment, and Mr W later removed items  
such as the PVC doors and windows, and the window that wasnt there prior to the claim 
from the quote. And replaced them with timber framed windows and doors that were there prior to the storm. I think this was reasonable as the policy is designed to indemnify Mr W, 
and AXA arent liable for covering any items considered as betterment. 
Summary 
I think AXA could have done more to take control of the claim and communicate with Mr W 
about what to expect and the settlement options available. Although Mr W says AXA 
informed him there is no set time limit to settle claims, theyre required to resolve them 
promptly, which I dont think they did here.  
I dont find Mr Ws decision to start the works when he did unreasonable or unjustified. And 
Im not satisfied AXA were fair to settle the claim based on their preferred supplier rates, 
based on the reasons mentioned above. So, Ill be directing AXA to increase their cash 
settlement amount for the claim to reflect the market rates available to Mr W when 
instructing his own builder to complete the works. 
I dont think AXA handled things well here and Ive no doubt this would have caused Mr W a 
level of distress and inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected following a 
claim of this nature. Im in agreement a further £100 compensation is fair, so Ill also be 
requiring AXA to pay this to Mr W. 
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc must now increase their cash settlement amount and pay Mr W the 
cost to him to complete the claim-related garage repairs following the storm (deducting any 
amounts already paid). This shouldnt include any payment for items considered as 
betterment, such as the PVC doors and windows, or the additional window that wasnt there 
prior to the claim. They must also pay Mr W a further £100 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the complaint as set out under the heading Putting things 
right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman