DRN-2309077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1992 Mr and Mrs F were applying for a mortgage and the bank recommended they also 
take out PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr F only. It cost about £17.50 a 
month and would have paid out about £350 a month if Mr F had made a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs F say they only bought the PPI because they were led to believe they had to 
have it if the wanted the mortgage. Mr and Mrs F think the bank was wrong to sell them the 
policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs Fs main concern seems to be that they thought they had to have the PPI. 
Halifax doesnt have the actual paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place nearly 30 years ago and the mortgage ended in 1998. I 
wouldnt expect either Mr and Mrs F or Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and Mrs F 
were given a choice about buying the PPI. I cant be sure what was discussed at the time as 
I wasnt there. And I accept the member of staff might have said it was a good idea to buy 
the PPI  but that in itself doesnt mean it was mis-sold. And I see that it was set up to cover 
Mr F only. That does suggest that a conversation took place about the PPI at the time and it 
was tailored to suit Mr and Mrs Fs needs. I think its also likely Halifax sent the relevant 
literature to Mr and Mrs F after the sale. I think this would have been before the PPI actually 
started, as theres normally several weeks delay between buying PPI and cover starting, 
which is when the mortgage begins. Thats what Halifax normally did, and I cant see any 
reason why it would treat Mr and Mrs F differently.
Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Mr and Mrs F enough information for them to know 
they didnt have to buy the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten this over 
the years.
Halifax says it advised Mr and Mrs F to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure 
that it met Mr Fs needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, I 
think the policy was suitable for him.
- Mr F was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like Mr F would have been affected by 
any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
- Mr F says he wouldnt have got any sick pay if he couldnt work. A mortgage is a big 
commitment, and Mr and Mrs Fs home could have been at risk if he couldnt work for 
any length of time and they had only Mrs Fs income to rely on. I think Mr and Mrs F 
would have had some use for the policy. 
- I dont know exactly when they were told what the PI would cost. But I do think theyd 
have known it cost something. The policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable, and I dont think when Mr and Mrs F first knew the cost affected their decision 
to buy the PPI. From the records Ive seen the potential benefit was about £350 a month, 
and theres no suggestion this wouldnt have covered the mortgage payment.
- Its possible that Halifax could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr F wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused him to 
change his mind about buying the policy. So he isnt any worse off as a result of anything 
Halifax may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Halifax needs to do to put things 
right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman