DRN-2763097
The complaint
Mr A complains that he received a message in error from Lloyds Bank PLCs smart alert 
service, which created unnecessary inconvenience. Mr A also complains that the banks 
service was poor when he contacted it to find out what was going on. 
What happened
Mr A signed up to Lloyds smart alert service so he would get instant notification of 
transactions on his account. The following day he received an alert about a direct debit that 
was due to leave his account. Mr A was concerned about this because the direct debit in 
question had already left his account the previous day. Mr A says the alert created 
unnecessary inconvenience because he couldnt be sure how much money would be 
available in his account if an additional direct debit was paid.
Mr A had difficulty getting through to Lloyds to check what was going on. When he did get 
through, he says he had to wait on the phone for an unacceptable amount of time and 
missed his lunch break.
Lloyds accepted that some of its service couldve been better when Mr A contacted it by 
phone. It offered £40 for the inconvenience caused and £9 to cover his call costs. 
Lloyds said the alert service was a feature designed to help customers manage their 
accounts. It wasnt a guarantee that funds would leave the account. Lloyds didnt offer any 
compensation in connection with the alert Mr A had received.
Mr A was unhappy with the banks response, so he referred the matter to this service. He 
considered £250 plus call costs would be reasonable compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She accepted there may 
have been some confusion caused by Lloyds alert, but she wasnt persuaded this had 
caused any financial detriment to Mr A. 
The investigator also recognised that Lloyds service couldve been better when Mr A 
contacted it. But she thought the compensation paid was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Lloyds alert couldve caused confusion for Mr A, as the direct debit in question 
had gone out of his account the day before, and before hed signed up for the alert service. 
But I accept that the alert service is a feature designed to help customers manage their 
accounts, rather than definite confirmation of transactions. So Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to ask Lloyds to pay compensation to Mr A for the inconvenience he says was created by 
the alert that was sent in error.
When Mr A became concerned about the alert hed received, he shouldve been able to 
contact Lloyds to find out what was going on. I can understand his frustration when he 
wasnt able to easily do so, and that he had to wait on the phone while his concerns were 
formally recorded as a complaint.
But Lloyds has paid £40 compensation in recognition of this, plus £9 for Mr As call costs. I 
think thats a reasonable amount of compensation when I take account of the circumstances 
overall. Im not persuaded that the additional £210 Mr A is seeking is justified on this 
occasion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman