DRN-3463982
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Society of Lloyds (SOL) dealt with his claim.
What happened
Mr W has an income protection policy, underwritten by SOL. This provides cover in the event 
of unemployment. Mr W also had another income protection policy and a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy. All three policies would pay monthly benefit in the event 
of unemployment, for up to 12 months.
Mr W made his claim to SOL who accepted the claim but didnt pay the full benefit amount. It 
said it would only pay an amount which would bring his total benefit across all three policies 
to 60% of his gross salary.
SOL relied on a term in its policy which said if he had other cover with similar benefits to this 
policy, it would pay a reduced amount. Mr W says the word similar is ambiguous and he 
doesnt think SOL has treated him fairly.
Mr W complained to SOL and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint to this 
Service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think SOL had treated Mr W 
unfairly or acted unreasonably. 
Mr W disagreed and didnt accept that the term similar was clear. He said the other insurers 
didnt think the policies were similar and so this means the term is ambiguous.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont this complaint should be upheld. Largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by our investigator. 
My decision is limited to the complaint about the way the benefit has been calculated. It 
doesnt include any other complaints including a complaint about being over insured or 
premium refunds, which would be considered separately.
I should start by saying that even if I dont refer to every point Mr W has made, I have fully 
considered everything. I will only address the points which I consider to be key to my 
decision, as our rules allow me to do.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly, 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mr W doesnt think hes been treated fairly. 
The relevant policy term says:
If you have other cover providing similar benefits to this policy then, on acceptance 
of any claim, the amount payable under this policy will be reduced by the greater of 
the amount covered elsewhere or the amount by which the combined benefit would 
exceed gross income.
The term refers to other cover. Im satisfied that the MPPI policy falls within the meaning of 
other cover. The term doesnt specify or limit the type of policy which SOL will take into 
consideration. 
Mr W seems to suggest that IP and MPPI policies arent similar and so the term shouldnt 
apply. But the term above refers to similar benefits and not similar policies. Both the IP and 
MPPI policies provide a benefit amount per month, for up to 12 months, as a result of 
unemployment. 
Although the policies may be different, they provide similar benefits. I dont think the term, as 
a whole, is unclear. And I dont think SOLs conclusion that the IP and MPPI policies provide 
similar benefits is unreasonable as both IP and MPPI policies provide benefits to replace 
income for specified events. And so I dont think SOL has treated Mr W unfairly.
Mr W says his other insurers didnt think the policies were similar and so that must mean the 
term is unclear. But the other insurers have their own policy wording and terms. And what 
they think of SOLs policy wording isnt relevant. Whats important is whether the term is 
clear and as explained above, Im satisfied that it is.
Mr W says simple isnt defined in the policy. But as explained by our investigator, it doesnt 
need to be defined as its an ordinary word with no special definition or meaning. And so its 
ordinary meaning applies and in doing that, the term doesnt become ambiguous. I think 
referring to a similar benefit is clear enough. 
For the sake of completeness, I have also looked into whether SOL calculated Mr Ws gross 
income correctly. 
The policy explains how gross income is calculated and Im satisfied that SOL calculated the 
gross income figure correctly.
Gross income is defined as:An amount of 60% of the average monthly renumeration you receive before 
deduction of all taxes and other deductions. The average take over the 6 months 
prior to the point of time under consideration.
SOL took the average of the six months before the claim was due to be paid and arrived at a 
figure. This is in line with the policy terms.
Mr W also says SOL delayed in assessing the claim and waited to see what the other two 
insurance providers would pay. Mr W provided all the relevant information to SOL on 21 
September 2020 and SOL made a decision on 10 December 2020. If SOL did wait for 
responses from the other insurers, it was entitled to do this based on the above the term 
about other cover. In addition, Mr W wasnt due any payment until January 2021 and so he 
hasnt suffered any loss as a result of the time SOL took to reach a decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman