DRN-3112315
The complaint
Ms Js representative, her husband Mr J, complains on her behalf about the service she 
received from ITI Capital Limited, referred to as ITI. 
In summary, Mr J said:
Ms J is unhappy that she couldnt monitor and deal on her online platform.  
ITI changed her British Pounds (GBP) Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF) to a US Dollars 
(USD) ETF without her permission or consent. 
Shes unhappy about the poor service shes received from ITI including the poor 
communication.  
What happened
ITI partially upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
The delays in onboarding and providing access to the trading platform was 
unacceptable. 
The onboarding documents have now been approved but the creation of Ms Js 
Phoenix trading account is still pending. Its account management is working to rectify 
this and get her access to her holdings as soon as possible. 
From 31 July 2020, the information available to Ms J  in relation to the composition 
of her portfolio  was inadequate and in some instances inaccurate. There was also 
an unreasonable delay in its communication with Ms J. 
Ms Js account has been specifically flagged to be looked at, especially in relation to 
the inaccurate holdings. This is a technical issue and not an issue of loss. 
It doesnt accept that Ms J suffered a financial loss as a result. Despite what she 
says, it hasnt seen any formal evidence that she wished to adjust any of her 
positions. 
By way of redress it offered Ms J £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
In the meantime, if Ms J wants to deal she can do so over the phone. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Based on communication with our service, the issues regarding trading online hadnt 
been sorted. However, shes seen nothing to suggest that Ms J was trying to make a 
specific trade. 
Ms J querying with ITI about when the issue might be sorted, so that she could trade, 
isnt the same thing as being prevented from trading. 
Despite what Mr J says about the challenges of trading over the phone, Ms J 
couldve contacted ITI to ask about the best time to place a trade. 
In terms of service, ITI accepts that Ms J has experienced problems accessing her 
account following the transfer from a third-party business to ITI. 
In the circumstances, the £250 compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Although according to Mr J the problems were ongoing until December 2020, ITI 
confirmed that investors could transfer out from around November 2020, so if Ms J 
was still unhappy with ITI, she couldve moved her holdings to another platform.  
Initially (in the absence of further evidence) she thought that ITI should switch the 
ETF Security (PHSP)  purportedly transferred into USD securities  back to GBP. 
But based on what ITI says, on balance shes satisfied that the ETF Security (PHSP) 
was already in USD currency when it was migrated from the previous platform to ITI. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators view. In short, he says Ms J has never used USD 
equities with the previous provider. 
The investigator having considered Mr Js additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said shes satisfied that ITI has demonstrated that ETF Security (PHSP) 
was already in USD when it was migrated from the previous platform to ITI. She can only 
look at this further if he or Ms J is able to provide evidence to show that it wasnt. Despite 
previously asking for this, Ms J hasnt been able to provide evidence to show that this was 
the case. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think ITI was right to uphold the complaint 
and offer £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im not persuaded that ITI prevented Ms J from trading or that its responsible for any 
financial loss claimed. On balance, Im also not persuaded that ITI converted Ms Js 
currency from GBP to USD. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Ms Js strength of feeling about this matter. Mr J has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he and 
Ms J wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and 
not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr J, and ITI, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I understand that Ms J initially held her assets with a different provider. In August 2019, 
following intervention from the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), 
the provider went into administration. Im aware that in or around June 2020, ITI took over the previous providers client books, 
and Ms Js assets were transferred over to it on or around 23 July 2020, when she (not 
unreasonably) expected things to be up and running. 
Im aware that the platform wasnt up and running, for months, during which Ms J couldnt 
access the platform and some of her valuations were incorrect. I note all she wanted was a 
date for when matters would be fixed so that she could take back control of her investment, 
but she couldnt get a straight answer from ITI.  
Its not entirely clear the size of the books that ITI took over from the previous provider that 
went into administration. But its likely that the new additional accounts and investments will 
have greatly affected ITIs capacity to deal with the additional customers and their requests. 
Based on what ITI says, it seems the issues with Ms Js account, in the main, arose out of 
technical issues.   
I note that ITI now accepts responsibility for this, as well as the poor communication and 
service it provided Ms J. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the offer of £250 
compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that it reflects the time and effort 
put in by Ms J  assisted by Mr J  to try and resolve the issues.  
Whilst I appreciate the time it took ITI to try and resolve the issues experienced by Ms J, it 
isnt reasonable to expect a business that provides an online service to guarantee that the 
service will always be available, as it can be affected by matters outside of its control.
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded 
that Ms J was trying to make a specific trade but was prevented from doing so by the 
platform access issues, and I cant award redress based on hypothetical losses. 
In other words, in this instance Im not persuaded that Ms J is entitled to redress (for losses 
claimed) just because she experienced issues accessing the platform and viewing her 
holdings, for which ITI has accepted responsibility.  
I appreciate that Ms J contacted ITI (or Mr J did on her behalf) to ask about when ITI might 
get matters sorted  so that she could use the platform again  but thats not the same thing 
as ITI preventing her from making a specific trade when ITI did provide an alternative 
method of trading, by phone.
I appreciate what Mr J says about share dealing over the telephone, and I note that Ms J 
had reservations. But the issues raised by Mr J seem to be more to do with the practicalities 
of trading over the phone, which ITI potentially couldve assisted with, rather than not having 
the opportunity to do so at all. Im not suggesting it wouldve been easier than trading online, 
just that it was an option available, should Ms J wish to trade. 
I accept it isnt the same as online trading in terms of either convenience, or otherwise. But 
the option of using the phone isnt provided on the basis that it provides the same service as 
the online service. It is to allow customers the opportunity of carrying out a trade when they 
dont have access to the online service. Im aware that in January 2021 Ms J placed a deal 
over the phone. I acknowledge she says it wasnt the best experience, but she couldve done 
this sooner. 
Despite what Mr J says, Im aware that the alternative of using the phone instead of the 
online service is common with stockbrokers and Im satisfied this is a reasonable alternative 
to the online service - when this isnt available.Whilst I appreciate the problems with the platform were ongoing, I note from around 
November 2020, and possibly earlier, Ms J had the option to move her holdings to another 
platform, thereby minimising and/or mitigating the distress and inconvenience caused, but 
she didnt even though she says that shed lost faith in ITI. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms Js concerns about the ETF Security (PHSP) being (purportedly) 
transferred into USD securities, in this instance Im unable to safely say that it was, or that 
ITI behaved unreasonably during this transfer. 
Based on what ITI says, on balance it seems more likely (than not) the ETF Security (PHSP) 
was held in USD, prior to the take-over by ITI. So, it would be reasonable to expect thats 
how the transfer would take place. I note in addition to providing screenshot of the holdings 
on the day of the migration, ITI says:
This was received from (the previous provider) on 23 June 2020, you will see that it was 
received and held on the account as USD.
Despite what Mr J says, in the circumstances, and on balance, I think it would be 
unreasonable to ask ITI to convert the USD to GBP. Im mindful that despite what Ms J and 
Mr J say, neither have provided any evidence that the EFT Security (PHSP) was previously 
held in GBP. 
The above notwithstanding, I note ITI also says:
When the order was placed as per our best execution policy the correct market to settle was 
USD as there lacked sufficient liquidity in the GBP market. It is our policy that we will negate 
this should a client specify a preference and should the trade indeed even be possible.
Unfortunately, our IT staff cannot locate the specific call which this trade was made. If the 
client is able to provide sufficient evidence that a request for GBP market was made then I 
would be willing to investigate why best execution policy was not followed.
In the circumstances it appears immaterial whether (or not) ITI shouldve asked Ms Js 
permission about the migration in USD. Based on what ITI says, it seems that if Ms J wanted 
ETF Security (PHSP) in GBP she couldve/shouldve made this clear to ITI.   
I appreciate Ms J will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask ITI to do anything over 
and above the £250 compensation it has already offered/paid Ms J.     
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Ms J what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think ITI Capital Limiteds offer to pay Ms J £250 compensation is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman