DRN-3392847
The complaint
Ms S complains that her disputed transaction was rejected by John Lewis Financial Services 
Limited.
What happened
In January 2021 Ms S arranged for a locksmith to visit her property and fit new locks. She 
paid with her JLFS card.
Ms S has said that she asked the locksmith to fit 5 lever locks. When the locks had been 
fitted, Ms S noticed that one of the locks was the wrong colour. She asked for this to be 
changed and the locksmith said he would return to change it, but he never did.
Ms S has said that she also noticed that the locksmith hadnt fitted 5 lever locks. She said 
she was pressured to sign the documentation and make payment, and that she only did so 
because she wanted the locksmith to leave. Ms S says she chased the locksmith to come 
back and fit the correct locks, but he never did, so she arranged for a different locksmith to 
do this.
Ms S raised a chargeback claim with JLFS. The claim was rejected. JLFS said that Ms S 
had received what she paid for. 
Ms S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think JLFS had acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim because there wasnt any evidence to show that Ms S 
had ordered a 5 lever lock.
Ms S didnt agree. She said the locksmith had admitted that the locks hed fitted werent the 
5 level locks shed ordered, and that hed agreed to return and fit the correct locks but had 
failed to do so. Ms S said the goods she had received werent the goods that shed ordered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a charge that is returned to a payment card after a customer disputes a 
transaction. When a chargeback happens, the disputed funds are withheld from the business 
until the card issuer (in this case JLFS) decides what to do. Theres no guarantee that the 
customer will receive a refund. It depends on what the business says in response to the 
dispute.
This service cant determine what the outcome of a chargeback should be. It can only look at 
whether the card issuer has followed the process of chargeback correctly.
In this case, JLFS raised the chargeback and credited Ms Ss account whilst it waited for a 
response from the locksmith. Ultimately, JLFS rejected the chargeback claim because the 
invoice showed that Ms S had ordered and received 3 lever locks.
Ive reviewed the available evidence to decide whether JLFS treated Ms S fairly. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im unable to say that JLFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in the chargeback 
process.
Ive gone on to consider whether Ms S has a claim under section 75. In certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of goods or a 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Ms Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that JLFSs response to the section 75 claim wasnt 
fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. It also says that services must be supplied with reasonable care and skill. If 
this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at the available evidence including the invoice and the text messages between 
Ms S and the locksmith. The invoice shows that three locks were fitted. Ms S has signed the 
invoice. Theres nothing on the invoice to suggest that Ms S ordered locks which were 
different to those which were supplied and fitted. And theres no evidence to suggest that the 
locks which were fitted were faulty, or not functioning as expected.
I appreciate that Ms S has said that she ordered 5 lever locks and that she was supplied with 
3 lever locks. However, apart from what Ms S has said about this, I havent seen any 
evidence to show that she ordered 5 lever locks. Ms S has said that she ordered 5 lever 
locks over the telephone but the information provided by the locksmith to JLFS contradicts 
this, and states that Ms S telephoned and made a general request for locks to be changed 
and only requested 5 lever locks after the 3 lever locks had been supplied and fitted. 
Taking everything into account, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that 
theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation here.  Im unable to say that a 
section 75 claim would succeed, or that JLFS responded to the section 75 claim 
unreasonably.
Its important to say that Ive only looked into Ms Ss complaint ab out how JLFS handled her 
claim. I havent looked into whether Ms S has a claim against the locksmith. This is 
something which she would need to pursue as a civil claim and my decision doesnt prevent 
her from doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman