DRN-2255125
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to update her address details.
What happened
Mrs D says she called BoS on 22 December 2017 about how to change her address. She 
says as a result she handed in a change of address form in a BoS branch that same day. 
But realised some months later that she hadnt received any BoS correspondence and so 
completed another form.
BoS says it has no record of Mrs D handing in the form in its branch in December 2017 and 
doesnt have a record of a call to it on the day. It says an electronic footprint would have 
been made on Mrs Ds account record if it had been accessed.
Mrs D had made a complaint about a different issue to us, but this complaint point is being 
dealt with separately. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and didnt think there was 
evidence of BoS making a mistake or about a call to it.
Mrs D doesnt accept that view and says the lost correspondence affected the outcome of 
the other complaint and says BoSs position shouldnt be accepted over hers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear that I am only dealing with the 
complaint about the address update and not about the other matters that Mrs D complained 
about.
I appreciate Mrs D says she handed the change of address form into a BoS branch. But BoS 
says it doesnt have a record of that. In those circumstances Im satisfied that its impossible 
to be sure what took place and that it would be unfair to conclude that BoS lost that form. 
I appreciate that Mrs D has provided evidence of a call to BoS but I dont think that means 
that I can fairly conclude BoS lost the change of address form. Im satisfied that BoS has 
carried out all appropriate and reasonable checks of its systems but cant locate the form or 
provide any further information.
Overall, I find that I cant fairly conclude that BoS has made a mistake and lost the change of 
address form. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman