DRN-4072335
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited declined the claim 
she made under a joint life policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out life and critical illness cover in January 2018 for a term of five years. 
Very sadly Mr K passed away in March 2022. Mrs K then made a claim under the life policy. 
Scottish Friendly didnt pay the claim  it said that Mr K hadnt answers all the medical 
questions accurately at the application stage. It said it wouldnt have offered cover if the 
correct answers had been given.
Mrs K brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt find that Scottish Friendly 
had done anything wrong. Mrs K appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to express my condolences to Mrs K for the loss of Mr K. I have no doubt that 
this has been a traumatic and very stressful time for her.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every point made by the 
parties. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Having done so, and although Im sorry to bring Mrs K disappointing news, I agree with the 
conclusion reached by our investigator. Ill explain the reasons why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Scottish Friendly felt that Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a representation 
when answering some of the questions on the additional application form, so Ive looked 
carefully at the questions asked and the answers given in the light of the medical evidence.
Mr K was asked whether he had been given advice to reduce his alcohol intake. He 
answered yes, and as a result was asked further questions. These included Have you 
ever suffered from any physical health problems as a result of drinking? and Have you ever 
been told by your GP or a specialist that your liver function tests were abnormal?. To both 
these questions Mr K answered no. However it is clear from his medical records that this 
was incorrect. 
The medical records show several entries between November 2013 and April 2016 showing 
that Mr K had suffered physical health problems as a result of drinking  including shakiness 
and blackouts. I understand Mrs Ks point that she would read the question as meaning 
issues which remain after the drinking has stopped. However I find that the question is clear 
 it didnt ask only about ongoing or long term problems - and the medical records show that 
the answer was incorrect.
In 2015 Mr Ks GP had requested blood tests. These showed some elevation in the liver 
enzymes. Again, I do appreciate that his GP may not have been concerned about this, but 
as Im satisfied that that the result of the liver function test was elevated I dont find that 
Scottish Friendly was wrong to conclude this should have been disclosed. Our investigator 
invited Mr K to submit further evidence to show that Mr K hadnt been told the result of his 
liver test was abnormal, but nothing has been forthcoming. 
Scottish Friendly has shown that had accurate answers been given at the application stage, 
it wouldnt have offered Mr K cover. For completeness it is fair to point out that Mr K did 
disclose hed been advised to reduce his alcohol intake and he also made disclosures about 
his mental health. I cant share the underwriting evidence Ive seen as its commercially 
sensitive, but Im satisfied that Mr K wouldnt have been given a policy had he answered all 
the questions asked correctly. This means Im satisfied that Mr K made a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Scottish Friendly has refunded all the premiums paid. It is bound to do that in cases of 
careless misrepresentation, and I find thats fair here and in line with the remedies available 
under CIDRA. I dont find there is anything to suggest that Mr K deliberately or recklessly 
answered the questions on the additional application form incorrectly (which would mean it 
wasnt obliged to return the premiums paid). 
In all the circumstances I dont find that Scottish Friendly treated Mrs K unfairly, 
unreasonably, or contrary to law in declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and despite my natural sympathy, I dont uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman