DRN-2244675
The complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the application form which Mr M completed for the credit card. It 
includes a section on PPI, with equally prominent options to take or decline the cover. 
Theres a tick in the box to indicate that Mr M wished to take the cover. Im satisfied that 
Barclays made it clear to Mr M that the PPI was optional.
Ive also borne in mind that the PPI premiums were shown on Mr Ms monthly credit card 
statements. Given that Im satisfied that Mr M knew the PPI was optional, if he hadnt 
wanted the cover I think its likely hed have contacted Barclays to ask about cancelling 
it. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that he did so. Taking everything into account, I think 
Mr M decided to take out the PPI, knowing that he had a choice  although I can 
understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Mr M applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think its unlikely he had any direct 
contact with Barclays staff about the application. This means Barclays didnt need to 
check that the PPI was suitable for Mr M. It was for Mr M to decide whether he wanted to 
take the cover, knowing what other means hed have had of making his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work. But Barclays did have a responsibility to give Mr M 
enough information to enable him to decide whether he wanted to take the PPI.
Mr Ms told us hed have been entitled to little or no pay from his employer if hed been 
off sick. So I think he could have struggled quite quickly to keep up with his monthly 
payments if hed been off sick. If hed made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have helped with his credit card repayments for up 
to 12 months. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr M says he could have sold his car if necessary. But I think its 
unlikely, on balance, that hed have wanted to go to the inconvenience of selling his car 
so that he could make his credit card repayments. And having the PPI meant that he 
wouldnt have needed to do that. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could 
have been useful for Mr M at what could have been a difficult time.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr M chose to take out the 
policy. So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he wasn't 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for example, unusual working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And since Mr M was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled 
it at any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the 
cover.
So taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a different 
decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means that Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mr M, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman