DRN-1987104
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AA Insurance Services Limited mis-sold a roadside assistance 
policy.
What happened
Mr W rang AA to buy a breakdown assistance policy. At the time he was on a trip away from 
home. He told AA his car had already broken down and he was having it towed to a garage. 
AA sold him the policy. Around three days later he rang AA and asked it to tow his still 
unrepaired car home. AA said his policy didn't cover that situation and he would have to pay 
for that service.
Mr W complained. AA agreed it had mis-sold the policy as it didn't cover the circumstances 
Mr W found himself in when he took it out. So it paid him £50 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience arising from that. It also said that, if he no longer wanted the cover, he 
could cancel the policy and it would refund him the full premium. Mr W didn't cancel the 
policy.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. He said he was out of pocket because AA had mis-sold 
the policy. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. She thought AA had 
responded to it reasonably. Mr W didn't agree; so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
At the time Mr W rang AA to buy the policy his car had already broken down and was being 
towed to a garage. The policy AA sold to him didn't cover breakdowns which happened 
within 24 hours of the policys sale. So, as Mr Ws car had already broken down, that 
situation wasn't going to be covered. And I think AA should have explained that before 
selling the policy. But I note AA accepted it had mis-sold the policy when it replied to Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr W said hes out of pocket because of AAs mis-sale. In response to our investigator's 
assessment of his complaint Mr W said he had to pay £50 to have his car towed to the 
garage. He said AA instructed him to do that. But I think hes mistaken. I've listened to the 
phone call when Mr W rang AA to buy the policy. And he clearly said hed already arranged 
to have the car towed to a garage. I haven't heard or seen any evidence, other than Mr Ws 
comments, that AA told him to do that. So Im satisfied he didn't incur that cost because of 
anything AA did.
Mr W added that, as AA didn't recover his car, he would have had to pay privately to recover 
it and pay for his own return journey home. He also said he incurred extra costs because his 
car wasn't recovered home. But Mr W simply wasn't covered for the situation he found 
himself in. That means he was always going to have to pay privately to recover his car and 
for his journey home. So AA isn't responsible to cover those costs. And if Mr W chose not to 
have his car recovered I don't think AAs responsible for any extra costs Mr W incurred 
because of that decision. It follows that I don't agree Mr Ws out of pocket because of the 
mis-sale.
I can understand Mr W's disappointment when AA told him his policy didn't cover him to 
recover his car to his home. But AA acknowledged its mistakes, paid £50 to cover Mr Ws 
distress as a result of it and offered him the opportunity to cancel his policy with a full refund. 
And I think that was a fair solution to the complaint. 
For completeness Ive noted Mr W didn't take up AAs offer to cancel the policy with a full 
refund of premium before it lapsed. But that was his decision and he could have cancelled 
the policy before it lapsed. And as he's had the benefit of it for a full year I don't think it would 
be reasonable to instruct AA to repeat that offer now the policys expired. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman