DRN-3045872
The complaint
Mrs S complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of her private medical insurance 
claim.
BUPA has taken over responsibility for Mrs Ss policy from a previous insurer, and has 
liability for the actions of that previous insurer. For ease, Ill refer to both those parties as 
BUPA in this decision.
What happened
In 2020, Mrs S wanted BUPA to cover treatment at a private hospital. BUPA refused as that 
hospital wasnt one covered by Mrs Ss policy. Mrs Ss doctor therefore arranged for her to 
have the treatment in another hospital, which was covered by her policy. 
Later, Mrs S needed hospital treatment and this was delayed by one day. However, Mrs S 
stayed at the hospital overnight before her treatment started. BUPA refused to cover this, as 
it didnt think the stay was necessary. 
Mrs S complained to BUPA about its refusal to allow her to have the treatment at the 
hospital not covered by her policy, and that it wouldnt cover her overnight stay. She also 
raised concerns about BUPAs handling of her account going into arrears. 
BUPA offered Mrs S £250 compensation for an email it had sent her regarding the arrears. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought BUPAs offer of 
compensation was appropriate for the upset caused to Mrs S by the email. He was of the 
view that BUPA had acted reasonably in relation to the other matters Mrs S had complained 
about. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPAs refusal to cover treatment at a specific hospital
Mrs S had been receiving treatment. In February 2020, her specialist (Dr M) wrote to BUPA 
to say that Mrs S had had a break from the treatment for a variety of factors, including 
infection. He asked BUPA for its authorisation to continue the treatment.
BUPA authorised further treatment, and I understand that Mrs S had this until around May 
2020. 
Mrs S previously had cover under her policy for the extended hospital list. But on 14 July 
2020, she downgraded her cover so that it only included treatment at partnership hospitals.
Then on 15 July 2020, Dr M wrote to BUPA again. He said that Mrs S was no longer able to 
have the treatment at a certain group of hospitals. He explained he would normally be able 
to offer the treatment at one of the partnership hospitals (Ill call this Hospital A), but that 
hospital was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He asked BUPA if it would authorise 
cover at another hospital (Ill call this Hospital B). 
In response, BUPA advised Mrs S on 17 July 2020 that Hospital B wasnt on her list of 
approved hospitals, and so it wouldnt cover treatment there. Dr M therefore arranged for 
Mrs S to be transferred to a different specialist (Dr P), who could do the treatment at one of 
the partnership hospitals.
I see that Dr P wrote to BUPA on 4 August 2020 to see if it would authorise the treatment as 
soon as possible. He said that Mrs S had had a break from the treatment since May 2020. 
BUPA authorised the treatment on 7 August 2020 and Mrs S started the treatment on 11 
August 2020.
I understand that Mrs Ss illness progressed in 2020, and Im very sorry to hear this. One of 
her treating specialists thought that progression partly related to the break in Mrs Ss 
treatment over a six to eight-month period, as well as the natural history of her illness (which 
he said tends to progress despite treatment). 
Mrs S thinks that BUPAs refusal to authorise treatment in Hospital B could have contributed 
to the progression of her illness. 
Its unfortunate that Hospital A was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but this was 
outside of BUPAs control. Its also very unfortunate that this was the only partnership 
hospital where Dr M was able to work. 
However, Ive listened to a call that took place between Mrs S and BUPA on 13 July 2020 
(before she downgraded her cover to the partnership hospital list). During that call, Mrs S 
explained that she intended to have treatment at the end of July (but could have it in 
August), and that her consultant could work out of Hospital A, but that hospital was closed 
and his patients were being treated at Hospital B. BUPA made Mrs S aware that if she had 
treatment at Hospital B then she would need to self-fund that treatment, as it wasnt on the 
partnership list.
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs S chose to downgrade her cover to the partnership list in the 
full knowledge that her upcoming treatment couldnt take place in Hospital B. 
If it were the case that there was no other nearby partnership hospitals available where 
Mrs S couldve had her treatment, then I mightve said that BUPA ought to have covered the 
treatment at Hospital B (until Hospital A reopened) on a fair and reasonable basis. But that 
wasnt the case. 
I appreciate there was a delay of a few weeks whilst Dr M transferred Mrs Ss care over to 
Dr P. However, ultimately, I think BUPA was right to say that it wouldnt cover treatment in 
Hospital B, and Mrs S was aware of that before she changed her policy. Consequently, I 
dont think BUPA can be held responsible for this delay. 
Overnight hospital stayMrs S was due to have treatment on 7 September and remain in hospital for one night. This 
had been authorised by BUPA.
Mrs S was admitted to hospital on 7 September, but the treatment was delayed until the 
following day. Mrs S stayed in hospital from 7 until 13 September.
The policy doesnt cover overnight hospital accommodation not associated with an acute 
medical need or the expected length of stay. However, I think that if there were evidence to 
show that the treatment had been delayed until 8 September by the hospital for reasons 
beyond Mrs Ss control, then it would be fair for BUPA to cover the cost. 
BUPA contacted the hospital to establish the reason for the delay. The hospital told BUPA 
that this was because Mrs S didnt want to start the treatment until shed spoken to her 
doctor.
Mrs S says she wanted more time to speak with her doctor about all the implications of the 
treatment, and that it wasnt practical to leave the hospital and be readmitted the following 
day. Its not clear why those discussions didnt take place before Mrs Ss admission to 
hospital. Though because the delay wasnt caused by the hospital, I think it was reasonable 
for BUPA to refuse to cover the cost of the overnight stay on 7 September. 
Mrs S says BUPA ought to have told her that any delay to her treatment would mean she 
was liable for the costs. However, like the investigator, I dont think BUPA had any reason to 
bring this to Mrs Ss attention. If shed called BUPA on 7 September to let it know she 
wouldnt be starting the treatment until the following day, BUPA couldve advised her that 
she wouldnt be covered for the overnight stay.
Mrs S is also unhappy that BUPA contacted the hospital directly when it didnt have her 
consent to do so. 
I see that BUPA was made aware on 9 September that Mrs S was still in hospital. The 
hospital advised BUPA that Mrs Ss hospital stay had been extended to three nights, and it 
would arrange for a medical report to be completed. BUPA then received a letter from 
Mrs Ss doctor, and the extended hospital stay was authorised. 
Then on 14 September, BUPA became aware that Mrs Ss hospital stay had again been 
extended, and she had been discharged on 13 September. BUPA asked Mrs Ss doctor to 
complete a form about the extended stay. BUPA then received a discharge summary from 
the hospital. Although BUPA hadnt requested this, I understand it provided enough 
information for BUPA to approve the extended hospital stay and cover the cost of this (apart 
from the overnight stay of 7 September).
Its not in dispute that Mrs S had told BUPA she wanted to be contacted before any clinical 
information was requested. Its apparent that BUPA went against her wishes when it 
contacted the hospital and asked Mrs Ss doctor to complete a form about Mrs Ss extended 
hospital stay. Mrs S had been discharged by that point, and so BUPA couldve contacted her 
directly to gain her consent before making that request. 
Ive therefore thought about how BUPAs error impacted Mrs S. 
As BUPA had only authorised one nights stay in hospital, the information it received from 
the hospital about the need for the extended stay was necessary for BUPA to authorise this. 
And so if Mrs S had wanted BUPA to cover the cost of her extended hospital stay, then 
BUPA wouldve needed to see this information. Consequently, I dont think Mrs S has been disadvantaged by the matter, or caused any inconvenience. BUPA has apologised for its 
error, which I think was an appropriate response.
If Mrs S has concerns about the hospital providing BUPA with her personal information 
without her consent, I think she should raise her concerns about that directly with the 
hospital.  
Arrears
Mrs Ss July 2020 premium was missed, which meant that her account went into arrears. 
Mrs S and BUPA discussed ways to reduce the cost of the cover. 
BUPA then sent an email to Mrs S asking her to pay the outstanding premium by 31 July 
2020. The email then advised Mrs S that if any payments were unsuccessful after that date, 
her policy would be cancelled, and she wouldnt be allowed to re-join. 
Like our investigator, I think BUPA had a responsibility to make Mrs S aware that she 
needed to bring her account up to date. However, BUPA was aware that Mrs S was 
undergoing medical treatment at the time, and so I think it shouldve been more mindful 
about this. Its also the case that Mrs S was taking active steps to make changes to her 
cover so that she could meet the premiums, and I think BUPA ought to have taken that into 
account. Ideally, I think BUPA ought to have called Mrs S to discuss the matter.
Its apparent that Mrs S was caused upset by BUPAs actions, though I think BUPAs offer of 
£250 compensation is appropriate in the circumstances, and fairly reflects the distress that 
Mrs S explains she was caused by the matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that BUPA Insurance Limited has already made an offer of £250 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that BUPA Insurance Limited should pay £250 (if it hasnt already done 
so).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman