DRN-3045652
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled her queries in relation to an old 
account she had with them.
What happened
In November 2020, HSBC sent Mrs G a cheque for £25.00. The attached letter said HSBC 
had reviewed the quality of service provided by the collections and/or recoveries team. And 
because the quality of service didnt meet their expected standards HSBC were paying Mrs 
G £25.00 in compensation. 
Mrs G wasnt completely sure what the payment was for, so she questioned it with HSBC. 
She says she had been through a difficult period between 2010-2012 and ultimately didnt 
feel £25.00 was enough to compensate her. She also says she had to take extreme action at 
the time and closed her account with HSBC. Mrs G didnt think the £25.00 reflected the 
hardship she had been caused by HSBC. Mrs G also updated HSBC with her change of 
name in her initial response to them. 
HSBC replied to Mrs G on 26 January 2021. They explained the compensation was being 
offered because Mrs G might have received a letter notifying her of impending legal action 
without prior contact to discuss possible other solutions for recovering Mrs Gs debt. HSBC 
said they had followed the right procedure at the time but would possibly act differently now 
and so the £25.00 was to acknowledge this. 
Mrs G doesnt recall receiving this explanation. She says she did receive numerous other 
letters from HSBC, but various letters sent to her were either incorrectly addressed or were 
sent in her previous name, even though she had updated HSBC with these details. 
Mrs G remained unhappy with HSBCs responses and referred the complaint to our service. 
She said HSBC hadnt been clear about what they had compensated her for and in any 
event, she didnt feel this fully took into account what shed been made to go through by 
HSBC at the time. She was also unhappy with the service provided by HSBC in sending the 
letters to the wrong address and with the incorrect name. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Gs complaint and decided to partially uphold it. He said our 
service wasnt able to look into Mrs Gs concerns about how HSBC handled the account 
between 2010-2012 as the time limits for this service being able to look into these 
complaints had elapsed. And although Mrs G said she had raised a complaint he felt there 
was no clear evidence to suggest she had. 
He also felt that HSBC had done enough to explain why they had sent the cheque to Mrs G. 
And although Mrs G had said she hadnt received the letter, our investigator said he hadnt 
seen anything to suggest that this letter explaining the reasons had been incorrectly sent. He 
did think HSBC provided Mrs G poor service when they incorrectly addressed the letters and 
used the wrong name in others. Because of this he asked HSBC to pay a further £50 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her. 
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendations, but Mrs G didnt agree. She said she 
complained to HSBC at the time in person and over the phone and felt HSBCs internal 
notes would support this. She also didnt accept the letter from HSBC dated 26 January 
2021 provided a satisfactory explanation. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G has raised a number of concerns, they mainly fall into three overall issues:
the issues she faced between 2010-2012 and HSBCs actions during that time, 
the explanation for the £25.00 compensation offered by HSBC, and
the service provided to her when HSBC responded to her queries. 
Issues Mrs G faced with HSBC between 2010-2012
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case HSBC hasnt agreed.  
Considering the evidence provided Mrs G only recently raised the issues about how she was 
treated by HSBC in 2010-2012. From what I can see this was in her letter to HSBC on 30 
November 2020. This is more than six years after her issues with them in 2010-2012 which 
are the events shes complaining about here. So I need to think about whether the complaint 
was made within three years of when Mrs G should reasonably have been aware she had 
cause to complain. 
Mrs G has said she spoke to her local HSBC branch about the issues and she also 
telephoned HSBC at the time. And she explained in her letter dated 30 November 2020 that 
HSBC didnt provide her the support she needed when she contacted them at the time. 
Given what Mrs G is complaining about, I think she should have been reasonably aware of 
her cause to complain. I say this because Mrs G has said HSBC didnt provide support for 
her when she asked for it and their actions put her under further anguish at the time. So I 
think she would have been aware of her cause for complaint at the time when HSBC didnt 
provide her the support she was asking for. 
Three years from this doesnt extend the six-year deadline mentioned above. This means 
Mrs G needed to make her complaint by 2018 at the latest. As she didnt complain until 
November 2020 her complaint is out of time under the rules I must apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But Ive not been provided any 
reason as to why Mrs G didnt complain sooner. And Ive already explained above why Im 
satisfied Mrs G should reasonably have been aware she had reason to complain about the handling of her account by HSBC by 2012. And it was ultimately up to her to decide whether 
or not she actually wanted to make a complaint at that time. So I dont think her failure to 
make a complaint within our time limits was due to exceptional circumstances. 
Mrs G told us that she complained at the time, but I havent seen any evidence that she did, 
and the letter dated 11 November 2011 doesnt persuade me she made a complaint. The 
letter sets out how Mrs G proposes to clear the outstanding balance on her overdraft. I cant 
see she raised any expression of dissatisfaction here that HSBC should have acted upon.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mrs G with her complaint about how she was treated 
when dealing with HSBC on her closed account from 2010-2012.
HSBCs compensation of £25.00
HSBC say it sent Mrs G a cheque for £25.00 because they were reviewing the processes 
they previously followed when trying to recover debts from customers. HSBC explained that 
although they complied with regulations, they wouldnt go about recovering debts in the 
same way now, so theyve offered customers a goodwill gesture to apologise for any upset 
the letter may have caused at the time.
Mrs G says HSBC didnt fully explain their investigation. She said the offer of £25.00 wasnt 
sufficient to reflect the hardship caused to her by HSBC. Ive thought about this but as Ive 
mentioned above, I cant look at what happened at the time Mrs Gs account was taken 
through the collections and/or recoveries process by HSBC. What Ive considered is quite 
specific and in relation to what the compensation was paid for by HSBC and if they 
adequately explained this to her.
I can understand why Mrs G might have found HSBCs initial letter enclosing the cheque a 
little vague, especially as it didnt provide much detail about the exact service it was relating 
to. But Im satisfied HSBC did provide enough explanation of why they sent her a cheque for 
£25.00 in their letter of 26 January 2021. Mrs G says she didnt receive this letter, but I can 
see its correctly addressed and Im not aware of any reasons as to why Mrs G wouldnt 
have received the letter. 
I have thought about if the compensation offered was fair and I think it was. I say this 
because HSBC have explained that this offer was for a specific letter they sent to Mrs G 
during the collections and recoveries process. There is nothing in the rules and regulations 
from the time that say what HSBC did at the time was wrong. But HSBC said if they had 
been going through that process with Mrs G now, they would have done things differently 
and most likely would have explored other options with Mrs G before sending this type of 
letter to her. 
Taking the above into account I dont think the offer of compensation here was 
unreasonable, so it follows that I dont think HSBC needs to do anything further here. 
 
Incorrectly addressed letters 
Ive considered the service provided by HSBC when it was writing to Mrs G in response to 
her queries. The initial letter and cheque were sent to the correct address so I cant see why 
HSBC wouldnt have had the correct details on file and therefore I cant see a reasonable 
reason why they sent numerous letters to the wrong address. 
Ive also seen a number of letters where HSBC continues to address Mrs G by her previous 
name even though she had provided them with evidence of the change. It was reasonable of Mrs G to expect that any correspondence from HSBC would have been sent to the right 
address and in her correct name.  
So Im satisfied that Mrs G was inconvenienced and so I think HSBC should pay further 
compensation of £50.00 for the trouble and upset caused to her for this.
 
Putting things right
HSBC should:
pay Mrs G £25.00 already offered as part of its collections and/or recoveries review
pay Mrs G £50.00 for the trouble and upset caused
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained I partly uphold Mrs Gs complaint and HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman