DRN-3352435
The complaint
Mr K has complained that AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (AXA) treated him unfairly 
when dealing with a claim for lost and damaged items under his transit insurance policy.
What happened
Due to an international relocation, Mr K wished to move his possessions to his new home. 
He therefore engaged a specialist removal firm in May 2020 to pack, store, ship and deliver 
his items. He also took out an insurance policy with AXA to provide cover of €4,000 for these 
items. The policy was intended to cover the risks of loss or damage to items during the 
process. 
When Mr K received his possessions, he realised that many items were damaged or 
missing. For example, a unique sculpture had been badly damaged, goods were missing 
from their original boxes, other items had been damaged, and an expensive ladder had been 
stolen immediately after delivery. Mr K thought that the removal company had acted with 
insufficient care. Mr K notified AXA of the loss in November 2020
Mr Ks claim under his insurance policy totalled €13,000. AXA offered the sum of €1,800, 
being €2,000, less an excess of €200, to settle his claim. It had previously offered €300 in 
total, which Mr K had rejected. Mr K said that when he took out his insurance policy, he 
didnt know the true and full replacement value of some of his specialist items, however he 
considered that the value was substantial. He also acknowledged that many non-specialist 
items held no monetary value and were of sentimental value. Mr K had produced an 
extremely detailed, room-by-room list of items to the removal company. Hed been unable to 
travel to his previous home to supervise packing, partly due to the covid pandemic. 
The claim was declined by AXA. It said that Mr K chose policy cover of €4,000 and that the 
policy documents made it clear that items over a certain value needed to be listed with a 
value attached, or they wouldnt be covered. It also stated that if items were under-valued, 
AXA would only pay a proportional amount of the value.
Mr K was unhappy with AXAs response to his complaint and he referred the matter to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He explained that that he was 
unable to look into the quality of service provided by the removal company or the question of 
how it arranged the AXA policy for Mr K. He could only look at Mr Ks claim under the terms 
and conditions of the AXA policy.
Our investigator concluded that the insurance application form was sufficiently clear in 
stating that AXA required Mr K to supply it with a list of items together with valuations, and 
he didnt think that AXA had done anything wrong in settling the matter in the way that it did 
in the circumstances.
Mr K remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to determine is whether AXAs action in declining the full amount of Mr 
Ks claim for damaged and missing items was fair and reasonable. I consider that it did act in 
a fair and reasonable manner in applying the terms and conditions of the policy. Ill explain 
why.
The policy documents are my starting point for this decision. Relevant terms and conditions 
in the insurance documents state as follows: -
The household goods and personal effects insured must be valued at the replacement cost
at destination as supported by a complete valued inventory.
Alternatively you may indicate a lump sum value...
Antiques and fine art must be valued at their replacement cost at destination taking into 
account costs of duties, shipping and carriage charges.
The relevant application form to arrange a policy also states:
Goods not declared and valued on the list are NOT insured
Please note that if you do not insure your goods for their new replacement value, you will be 
under-insured.  In the event of a claim for loss or damage, under insurance may result in 
the Insurer applying average when assessing a claim.  This means, for example, that if an 
item were under-insured by 50%, the Insurers would only settle 50% of any repair cost
It is in your interest to provide as much detail as possible
Please ensure that all items worth more than €500.00 are listed and detailed separately.
I see that Mr K crossed through boxes which provided a standard list of items and he noted 
that hed provided his own separate, itemised lists. He then inserted an overall insured value 
of €4,000 for household goods. Mr K did indeed supply a detailed, room-by-room, seven-
page inventory to the removal company which hed prepared from memory. He also supplied 
a list of art objects in order of value. The unique sculpture appeared first on the list.
Mr K said that he didnt know the full replacement value of some of his specialist items, 
including the unique sculpture which was badly damaged. He thought that the only way he 
could have reasonably discovered its true value would have been to place the item for sale 
with an auction firm. As he had no intention of selling them, he thought this would be 
misleading. 
Mr K said that he told AXA that a lot of his possessions were over 30 years old and had no 
value. As AXA didnt raise any issues regarding this, he felt that AXA had accepted that the 
specialist items, including the sculpture, were therefore of significant value i asked them 
to insure all my items for the minimum of €4.000,-  with a remark that only the collector items 
had any real value, but that it was impossible for me to know the exact value at that time. So 
I also explained them that the real value of those items could be even more than €10.000,- , 
incl an explanation that the sculpture by far was the most valuable of all those items, and so 
on, but because of lack of proof for that value I decided to insure it for the minimum 
supposing that if they were such high quality removers, actually such an insurance would not 
have been necesarry at all.   Mr K wanted AXA to pay €13,000 in total for damage to or loss of the insured items, 
including the specialist items, to compensate for what he considered to be theft of certain 
items and an additional amount in compensation. My pieces of art and collector items 
clearly are worth a lot, but I am not an expert, so I gave them an assessment of what I 
suppose the TOTAL worth of those items could be. But I could not prove such. (And in real 
life the actual value of such items can only be detected by selling them). Mr K remained of 
the view that; it was and still is impossible for me to make an assessment of the real value 
of all the collectables and pieces of art...
Mr K also referred to damage to some of his electrical devices and he felt that this was due 
to them being left in the heat for too long in a shipping container. He thought that in this 
regard, the removal company hadnt taken into account the delays which had arisen due to 
the covid pandemic.
Turning to AXAs response to the matter, it said that Mr Ks application form for insurance 
made it clear that he wanted to purchase cover for €4,000. It said that the policy documents 
made it clear that any items that werent listed with a valuation wouldnt be covered. It also 
said that if items were under-valued, the policy would only pay a proportional amount of the 
value if a claim were to arise. It thought that as Mr K had only requested cover for €4,000, 
the offer of €1,800 was fair and reasonable. It considered that, as Mr K appeared to be 
under-insured by a large amount, this was a generous settlement.
In its final response letter of February 2021, AXA wrote to Mr K as follows; I would like to 
explain that this insurance provides cover for the items you listed on the insurance 
application form (as you know, you produce your own list for these purposes and that is 
fine). If an item is not listed and given a value it is not insured
AXA stated that its application form was very clear. It said that it was highlighted on the top 
of the form as an important warning in bold print, that items not declared and valued were 
not insured. It was satisfied that the warning had been sufficiently and clearly drawn to Mr 
Ks attention in the circumstances .
It said that it had also warned about the risks of under insurance by a policy holder. It said 
that this would result in a proportional payment in the event of a claim, being the value of the 
insurance purchased compared to the actual value of items; What this means, in simple 
terms, is that if you only request 50% of the insurance you actually need then in the event of 
a claim you will only receive 50% of the value of your claim (after all the other terms and 
conditions have been complied with).
Taking this claim as an example therefore, you requested insurance for €4,000 worth of 
goods yet you have claimed for €13,000 worth of goods.  Of course, not all of your goods 
needed to be claimed for with a significant amount (in both number and value) being 
delivered safely. As a result your goods were clearly underinsured to a very large degree.  
Even taking the value of the claim alone it comes in at over three times to total value of the 
amount of insurance you purchased.
AXA stated that it provided a significantly higher settlement offer of €1,800 in total as a 
gesture of goodwill and not because the original offer of was incorrect. It explained that its 
final offer represented 50% of the total value of the insurance requested by Mr K. 
Having considered all the evidence provided by both Mr K and AXA, Ive reached the 
following conclusions. Like our investigator, I can understand that Mr K may be disappointed 
by the extent of our remit, as I can see that a large part of his complaint relates to the service 
received from his removal company. The part of the complaint we can look at however, is the way in which AXAs interpreted and applied the policy terms and conditions on the facts 
of this case, and whether that was fair and reasonable.
As to the detailed inventory provided by Mr K to the specialist removal company, Im 
satisfied that AXA was alerted to the existence of Mr Ks very detailed, room-by-room list of 
items, as this list was specifically mentioned in his application form for insurance. 
Unfortunately for Mr K however, even if AXA had received this list at the outset, the list 
doesnt provide any indication of separate, additional valuations for specialist items. The 
form indicates that Mr K wished to obtain overall cover for €4,000 and likewise, doesnt refer 
to any additional sum to account for specialist items. Im satisfied in the circumstances that 
AXA couldnt be expected to go behind that figure and attribute its own higher value to 
specific items as this is a matter for the policy holder. In the circumstances, I cant say that 
AXA has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in concluding that Mr K had requested 
overall cover of €4,000, to include any specialist items.
As to the unique sculpture, which Mr K now considers could be worth €10,000, unfortunately 
Mr K hasnt produced any evidence to support this valuation. He didnt ask a specialist 
valuer to provide an assessment of value either at the time of arranging insurance, or when 
he submitted his complaint to this service. In this respect, I agree with our investigator that, 
as Mr K had selected only €4,000 of cover for the entire shipment, this doesnt support the 
contention of a much higher valuation of specialist items, including the unique sculpture. 
In addition, the terms and conditions of the policy clearly state that any item that is valued at 
more than €500 has to be specifically declared and valued. I appreciate that Mr K had 
identified to the removal company the need for special care of items such as the unique 
sculpture. It was listed as his most important item, however this need for care and attention 
isnt reflected by a specific value in the form. There is a specific place in the form to note 
such values and the form makes it clear that this information is important. I consider that the 
terms and conditions were specifically highlighted in this case and Mr K didnt comply with 
this important and highlighted condition. I cant therefore say that AXA has acted in an unfair 
or unreasonable manner in this respect either.
I note that our investigator felt that it wasnt clear how AXA had calculated its offer of €2,000 
less the €200 excess. AXA said that this simply represented a payment of 50% of the 
amount of Mr Ks total cover. Our investigator also noted that, without any confirmed 
valuations of the remaining items, it was very difficult to say if this settlement offer was fair. 
Looking at the way in which AXA arrived at its final settlement figure in more detail, Mr K was 
claiming €13,000 in total and said that this included damage and loss of items but also 
general compensation. If Mr K remains of the view that his unique sculpture had a value of 
€10,000, it was significantly under-valued at the time of purchase of the policy. This is in 
view of the finding above the overall value of all items, including the sculpture, had been set 
by Mr K at €4,000. As such, it would have been fair for AXA to invoke its terms and 
conditions to pay a proportional amount for losses rather than the whole amount.
Even if the items hadnt been undervalued, and a realistic overall value was indeed €4,000, 
(bearing in mind that Mr K acknowledged that many items had a nil value), I cant say that 
AXAs settlement figure was unreasonable. This is because the majority of items and boxes 
appear to have been delivered safely and only a proportion of items were reported as having 
been damaged or were missing. 
In summary, I note that AXAs settlement took a broad brush or general approach of 
offering compensation for half of the €4,000 valuation figure provided by Mr K. I conclude 
that this was a fair and reasonable approach for it to take in all the circumstances.To conclude, the evidence shows that Mr K purchased a transit insurance policy to cover 
possessions worth €4,000 in total. The relevant form was very clear that items needed to be 
listed with a valuation to ensure that items were insured. Valuations were not however 
supplied by Mr K. If items were under insured, then the policy terms and conditions made it 
clear that a proportional sum would be paid by AXA. In the absence of itemised valuations, it 
wouldnt have been possible for AXA to have calculated an exact settlement figure. Even if 
the €4,000 overall valuation had been realistic, there was no break-down between nil value 
and more valuable items. In the circumstances, it wouldnt have been possible to calculate a 
specific figure for loss or damage up to that total figure of €4,000. I cannot therefore say that 
the broad brush settlement approach taken by AXA was unfair or unreasonable.
Im unable to say therefore that AXA acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in making its 
offer. I can appreciate that Mr K will be very disappointed with the outcome of his complaint 
and that hes given up a lot of time and energy to deal with something which he feels 
strongly about. Ive no doubt that Mr Ks move has been difficult and that the transit of his 
items wasnt satisfactory. Our investigator also recognised that Mr K was very frustrated and 
felt let down by the specialist removal company, however this was quite separate to the 
question of whether the resulting problems were covered by his insurance policy with AXA. 
Unfortunately, they were not.
I cant therefore say that AXA was responsible for all of Mr Ks difficulties or that it acted 
outside the terms and conditions of the policy on the basis of the insurance application which 
it received from Mr K. In all the circumstances I cant say that AXAs offer of €1,800 was an 
unfair or unreasonable and I dont require it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint and I dont require 
AXA Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman