DRN-1929087
The complaint
Mr C complains Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
(Mapfre) unfairly refused his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C made a claim relating to a back injury he sustained abroad in 2017. Hes said he 
provided Mapfre with various evidence, but it refused to continue assessing his claim unless 
he agreed to be interviewed over the phone. Mr C said he was prepared to answer questions 
if they were provided in writing or by email. But he said he didnt think he was obligated to 
complete a telephone interview. 
Mapfre said it thought it was entitled to ask Mr C for any information it needed in relation to 
his claim. It said it had concerns over the claim, and wouldnt assess it any further, unless Mr 
C would agree to a telephone interview. 
Mr C complained. Mapfre said it didnt dispute that the claim incident had taken place, but it 
had concerns about the claim and Mr Cs refusal to complete a telephone interview. And it 
said it thought he had been unwilling to provide information itd asked for. It said it wouldnt 
reconsider the claim unless Mr C complied with its requests for information.
Unhappy with the response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened, and said she didnt think Mapfre had acted unfairly. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. In 
summary he said hed refused the telephone interview as he had concerns over how Mapfre 
might interpret any hesitation in his answering, his tone of voice or refusal to answer an 
irrelevant question. And he said he thought Mapfre should put its questions in writing. 
Mapfre didnt make any further comments. 
As Mr C disagreed with the view, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Mapfre has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The final response Mapfre sent to Mr C also refers to other claims. However, when bringing 
his complaint to this service, Mr C has specified the claim reference  and this is concerning 
an injury he sustained on holiday in December 2017. So Ive focussed on the events relating 
to that claim when assessing this complaint. 
Mapfre said it had concerns about Mr Cs claim, and wanted to obtain more information by 
conducting a telephone interview. It said it wanted to ask Mr C questions over the phone so 
that it could receive spontaneous answers and it said this would enable it to gain more 
confidence in his claim. 
Whilst Mr Cs policy doesnt state he must complete a telephone interview, it doesnt 
automatically follow that Mapfre cant request this, or that Mr C can refuse. 
It isnt my role to determine Mapfres claim handling process. I think the reasons Mapfre 
gave for wanting to conduct a telephone interview are fair. And its common practise for an 
insurer to use a telephone interview to gain more clarity and information about a claim. So I 
dont think Mapfres request was unreasonable. 
Mapfre has said it will continue its assessment of Mr Cs claim if he agrees to provide more 
information by way of telephone interview. And I think thats fair.
Ive considered the concerns Mr C later raised about what conclusions Mapfre may draw 
from a telephone interview, such as in reference to his tone of voice or any pauses or 
hesitations. However, a telephone interview hasnt yet taken place, so this isnt something I 
can make a finding on. 
If Mr C agrees to the telephone interview, and is unhappy with the way its conducted or 
used in relation to his claim, he would be able to make a new complaint about that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman