DRN-3305403
The complaint
Mr S has, through his representative Mrs S, complained that American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AMEX) charged him interest when he was on a payment holiday. To keep 
things simple, I will only refer to Mr S in this decision, as he is the eligible complainant.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In 2020, Mr S went into a payment holiday for his April to June statement months. Mr S says 
he was told he wouldnt get charged interest at all, whereas AMEX say they explained they 
wouldnt charge interest for the first two months only.
In any case, Mr S was charged interest on his April statement and was told this would be 
refunded along with a late payment charge, but this got overlooked at the time.
Mr S also complained that he tried to extend his payment holiday and was told AMEX would 
call him back, but they didnt. Hes complained about the interest charged during those 
months, too. He would like his interest to be refunded.
AMEX accepted theyd given Mr S confusing advice, but clarified they only waived interest 
for the first two months. To put things right, they refunded the April 2020 interest along with 
all late payment fees, they waived the interest on Mr Ss November 2020 statement as well, 
and they paid him £150 compensation on top.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought AMEXs offer was fair. Mr S 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I need to make it clear that businesses were not required to freeze or refund interest 
during these payment holidays. AMEX waived the first two months worth of interest as a 
way to help their customers  but this was just something nice that AMEX did on their own, it 
was not something they had to do.
From what I understand, when a customer was in a payment holiday, AMEXs policy was to 
waive the first two months interest  but not any interest beyond that. So Mr S was correctly 
charged interest on his June 2020 statement. And even if hed been granted a payment 
holiday extension after that, he would have still continued to accrue interest, because by 
then hed already had his two interest-free months.
From what Ive seen of AMEXs conversations with Mr S, it does look like they gave 
potentially confusing advice. So I can understand if Mr S got the impression that all interest 
would be waived. But it bears reiterating that AMEX were not required to waive or refund any 
interest at all here. So I would only tell AMEX to compensate Mr S for the mis-advice  it 
would not be fair for me to make them waive all the interest charged, as hed like them to. 
That interest was genuinely due.
In regard to extending the payment holiday, its not fully clear what happened. From what 
AMEX has sent us, it seems they said that Mr S would need to call them back later to apply 
for an extension; but from their own notes it also comes across that Mr S was expecting 
them to call him back. So it may well be that AMEX failed to call him back and extend his 
payment holiday.
However, even if that was the case, its difficult to see what substantial difference an 
extension would have made. The extension would have taken the payment holiday through 
from July to September 2020, and Mr S made some very substantial payments towards this 
credit card during that period  well beyond the minimum payments. So it doesnt appear 
that he ended up needing a further payment holiday for those months anyway. And as 
above, he would have still been charged interest during those months whether he was in a 
payment holiday or not  it wouldnt have made a difference there. Further, AMEX refunded 
the late payment fee he was charged, so he didnt end up with any extra fees.
As above, I accept its most likely that AMEX caused Mr S some confusion and upset here 
by misadvising him, and by delaying the refund of his April 2020 interest and fee. And it 
sounds like they failed to call back when they said they would, which Mr S explained meant 
he had to keep calling. So I understand Mr Ss position and why he complained.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in 
mind that were not here to fine or punish businesses, but to resolve complaints informally. 
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with those. Here, AMEX have now put through all the interest and fee refunds that they were 
supposed to. AMEX also waived a further months interest worth several hundred pounds, 
and they paid Mr S £150 compensation on top. And I think that was fair to put right what 
AMEX got wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think American Express Services Europe Limited have 
already made a fair offer to resolve this complaint. I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman