DRN-4075593
The complaint
Mr K complaints Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr K approached Drafty for a running credit facility in April 2019. Mr K was given a
facility with a £550 credit limit. Drafty increased Mr Ks credit limit on two occasions taking 
his credit limit to £1,380 by August 2021. Drafty has confirmed that by April 2022, an 
outstanding balance remained due of around £1,066.
Mr K was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr K was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter (in December 2021) it explained the information it gathered 
from Mr K before it approved the facility which showed hed be able to afford it. However, it 
did accept, that the facility was likely unsustainable for Mr K from 20 May 2020. To put things 
right for Mr K, Drafty offered to.
Refund all interest and fees incurred on new drawdowns from 20 May 2020.
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, and then take tax off of this at a rate of 20%. 
Use this refund to offset against Mr Ks current outstanding balance. 
Remove any negative markers from Mr Ks credit file from 20 May 2020.
Mr K didnt agree with the offer and instead referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our adjudicators looked at it and in her latest 
assessment, she partly upheld it. 
The adjudicator thought the checks Drafty carried out before initially granting this facility 
were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr K was likely to be able to afford the payment 
amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in Mr Ks credit agreement. This 
was calculated on the full £550 being drawn down at the outset and then being repaid over 
12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr K with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it 
also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ks ongoing use of the facility. And she agreed with the 
point that Drafty had upheld the complaint in the final response letter. 
Later on, she said had Drafty carried out further checks in May 2020 it wouldve likely 
discovered that he was already servicing a significant amount of payday debt. And so, by 
May 2020 Drafty ought to have offered forbearance to Mr K and it ought to have frozen the 
interest at this time. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time May 2020. But it reiterated that it takes a different view on how 
the redress should be calculated. In summary it said; 
Your decision implies that any draws granted after 20th May 2020 were 
inappropriate, so we should refund interest paid towards them. However, it is also 
implicated that draws requested prior to 20th May 2020, were reasonable for us to 
have granted.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. 
As explained, Mr K was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr K would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Ks repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time. And while, Mr K rejected the settlement offer by Drafty, 
he hasnt disagreed that this is the point where the complaint ought to be upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
20 May 2020. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, 
is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. 
The adjudicator explained why she agreed with Draftys uphold date given the way Mr K had 
used the facility. But she also went onto say that had further checks been carried out  such 
as reviewing his bank statements then it wouldve realised that not just the new drawdowns 
but the whole facility was unsustainable and therefore Mr K ought to have been offered 
some assistance. 
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr K while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged on the facility after the 20 May 2020 needs to be refunded. So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in May 2020. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. But 
seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  
as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right 
sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing 
this sometime after the event. 
As Ive said above, and as the adjudicator pointed out, by May 2020 it wasnt unreasonable 
for Drafty to have made further checks to ensure the facility was still sustainable for Mr K. 
And had further checks been carried out not only would Drafty have realised any new 
drawdowns werent sustainable for Mr K but the whole facility was as well. 
I say this because at the time Mr K was servicing another flexible credit facility with another 
provider  costing at least £300 per month. On top of this, Mr K was also servicing and 
repaying at least two other payday lenders as well a high-cost credit provider. 
In addition, there were times where direct debits were being returned as unpaid and the 
regulator says that can be a sign of financial difficulties. So, I do think, that had further 
checks been carried by out by Drafty at this time, it wouldve likely concluded that the facility 
was now unsustainable for him. 
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Ks balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, when further 
checks wouldve indicated he was already struggling, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr K, once the point had been reached where Drafty accepted 
the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance to allow Mr K to repay 
what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt in my view, fair and reasonable for Drafty to 
have continued charging interest on this balance from 20 May 2020 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been upheld, it therefore follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that Mr K couldnt afford. He also couldnt afford to repay what he already owed 
 so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns needs 
to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the complaint 
at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do in 
order to put things right for Mr K. 
Putting things right
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: Re-work Mr Ks credit facility balance so that any interest, fees and charges applied 
from 20 May 2020 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr K to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ks credit file, it 
should backdate this to May 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr K, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ks credit file.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Given the most recent information from Drafty, it could be, that even after carrying out the 
above redress an outstanding balance will remain due. So I remind Drafty of its regulatory 
obligation to treat Mr K fairly and with forbearance.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr K as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman