DRN-3776270
The complaint
Mr O and Ms W complain that The Co-Operative Bank Plc trading as Platform gave them a 
timeframe of five months to complete a transfer of equity. As a result, they had to repay the 
mortgage and incurred an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr O and Ms W had a joint mortgage with Platform. They wanted to transfer the mortgage 
into Ms Ws sole name. But they said Platform told them it would take five months to 
complete the transfer. They consider that was too long. The mortgage was repaid when Ms 
W arranged a mortgage with another lender. But Platform applied an ERC of more than 
£2,000.
Mr O and Mr W complain about the ERC. They consider that it could have been avoided if 
Platform was able to deal with the transfer in a reasonable timescale.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr O and Ms W didnt accept what the investigator said. They reiterated that the timeframe 
given by platform to transfer the mortgage was unfair and unreasonable. The only solution 
was to take out a mortgage with another lender. If Platform had said it could complete the 
transfer in a reasonable time, they would have stayed with Platform and avoided the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr O and Ms W took out the mortgage, they accepted the mortgage offer. That 
included an ERC that was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 1 December 2022. As 
the mortgage was repaid before that date, Platform was entitled to apply the ERC.
It isnt in dispute that Platform told Mr O and Ms W it would take up to five months to 
complete the transfer into Ms Ws sole name. Platform said at the time in question it was 
experiencing very high demand for mortgages because of the stamp duty holiday and the 
impact of the pandemic.
Mr O and Ms W havent said why they couldnt wait. But it was their decision not to do so. I 
cant see that Platform ever gave them any guarantee or assurance that it would complete 
such an application in a certain timescale. And we dont know if Platform would have 
approved the transfer had the application been completed. 
Based on the evidence available to me the ERC was applied correctly. It was Mr O and Ms 
Ws decision to redeem the mortgage and incur the ERC. While I can understand why Mr O 
and Ms W wanted to sort things out quickly, Platform was entitled to apply the ERC in these 
circumstances. I dont consider it acted unfairly in doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman