DRN-1284327
 
The complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
The policy, which it started in 1994, helped protect Mr Ws mortgage payments if he couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr W disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont have all of the information from the time of the sale in 
this case. For example, we dont have a copy of the policy terms from 1994. None of this is 
surprising given the sale took place so long ago. That said, Ive still reached a conclusion 
taking into account the available evidence, and knowledge and experience of these types of 
sales.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
As theres little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant say for sure what Mr W was told 
or that it was made clear the PPI was optional. Equally, Ive seen no evidence to support 
what hes said about HSBC not making this clear to him. Taking everything into account, I 
think its just as likely Mr W was told the PPI was optional and that he agreed for it to be 
added. I can understand if he doesnt recall agreeing to the PPI.
So, I dont have enough evidence to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Looking at other aspects of the sale, its possible HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W. If 
so, HSBC needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for him. I cant be sure it took 
those steps, although I think the PPI was probably right for him in any case. 
For example, looking at the policy terms from the years before and after the sale, I think 
Mr W would have been eligible for the cover. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the monthly 
premium was unaffordable for him.
The PPI likely included restrictions on the cover, such as for claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions. But I cant see that Mr W would have been affected by them. Mr W says, if he fell ill, hed have received limited sick pay and that he wouldnt have got any 
enhanced redundancy pay. He also says he had some savings but it appears this would only 
have kept him going for a few months. The PPI benefits, on the other hand, would have paid 
out on top of that, and for up to 12 months per disability or unemployment claim. 
Given Mr W had arranged a mortgage  an important, long-term, financial commitment that 
was secured against his home  I think the cover provided him with worthwhile extra 
security. 
It was also for HSBC to give Mr W enough information about the PPI so he could make an 
informed choice about whether it was right for him. I dont know exactly what information 
Mr W got during the sale. But, for the same reasons I think PPI was right for him and was 
affordable, I dont think better information about it would have put him off buying it.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Ws lost out because of how HSBC sold 
him the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman