DRN-3024677
The complaint
Mr Z complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to refund a number of 
transactions that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr Z had an account with a food delivery business Ill refer to as G. In March 2020, Mr Z 
made an extended trip abroad to visit family and has told us that he kept the debit card 
secure whilst he was away.  He returned to the UK in February 2021.
In November 2020 he noticed a large number of transactions to G that he didnt authorise 
and called NatWest about the payments. NatWest investigated the transactions and held Mr 
Z responsible for them. Mr Z disagreed with NatWests decision and made a complaint. Mr Z 
argued that he was out of the country at the time of the transactions. Mr Z asked G for 
information about his account and they supplied a historical list of transactions that showed 
only those made by Mr Z and not any that have been disputed. Mr Z thought that another 
account had been set up using his card details.
NatWest continued to investigate following Mr Zs complaint but didnt change their mind. 
The information contained in their audit system showed the same device had been used to 
make payments that Mr Z hadnt disputed, as well as those he had and the transactions had 
been carried out from the same city that Mr Z lived in whilst in the UK.
Mr Z then brought his complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. He thought the evidence showed it was Mr Z whod made the 
transactions or allowed someone else to do it with his permission and thought that Mr Z had 
known about the transactions earlier because of his internet banking activity.
Mr Z disagreed with the investigator and asked for a further review of his complaint and 
made several comments about the investigators outcome. Mr Z said that he was out of the 
country at the time. He maintained that hed never given anyone else access to his card, but 
it could have been used at his lodgings. Mr Z also explained that his phone was with him 
whilst out of the country. Mr Z wanted other information from G, and he said that because 
hed used his internet banking earlier than hed originally claimed  it wasnt evidence that he 
knew about the transactions some months before he reported them to NatWest.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr Z liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
NatWest have supplied evidence that shows the genuine cards details were used to make 
the transactions, including additional authentication steps referred to as 3D Secure. Im 
satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which NatWest and Mr Z agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the debit card or the details from it, NatWest agree to 
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another 
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the 
genuine card details and were further authenticated using 3D Secure, so Im satisfied that 
consent was given and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions 
where it wouldnt be appropriate for NatWest to hold Mr Z responsible, for example if the 
card details were used without his permission.
Mr Z disputed a series of transactions whilst he was out of the country and from the 
information hes provided and the audit data from NatWest, Im satisfied that Mr Z wasnt in 
the country at the time of the disputed transactions.
NatWest were able to provide data about a number of transactions to G, some of which Mr Z 
hasnt disputed and were made before he left the country. This data shows that a consistent 
device (a phone) was used during all the transactions to G. This means that the same phone 
was involved in the transactions to G both before Mr Z left and whilst he was away. 
Mr Z later confirmed that hed left another phone in his flat before he left the UK. This phone 
was the one that Mr Z regularly used before upgrading to his current phone. He said its 
protected with a password and hasnt been charged or switched on for more than two years. 
Mr Z also said that the app for G is on the phone and it would automatically log in to the 
account (with G) if someone bypassed the PIN to open his phone.
Mr Z has provided evidence from G that his account with them only had transactions that 
hed authorised up until just before he left to visit his family. G said that theyre unable to 
provide further details about the additional transactions as they dont hold the information in 
order to trace which other account used Mr Zs details. Mr Z thought that a further request to 
G was needed to show it wasnt him who authorised these transactions. I dont think the 
additional enquiries would assist, as Im already satisfied that an additional account was 
registered with G to make these transactions and data protection issues would prevent G 
from revealing anything that wasnt directly related to Mr Z. Whats relevant here is who 
authorised these transactions to G. 
Its apparent to me that the use of Mr Zs debit card details were made from a phone that 
was present in the area where Mr Z lived when he wasnt abroad. So, the evidence indicates 
that there was an additional phone that was used to undertake the transactions with G. I say 
that because Mr Zs current phone, which hes registered with NatWest and our service, was 
shown as being abroad during some of these disputed transactions.
What that means here is that a phone that Mr Z used to make genuine transactions to G was 
also used to make the disputed transactions to them. I think its likely it was the phone Mr Z 
left behind in his flat when he returned home. So, for an unknown third party to have used 
this phone without Mr Zs knowledge or permission, they would have had to enter his locked 
flat, obtain his phone and bypass the PIN. At that point they would be able to log in to Mr Zs 
account with G. But that didnt happen here because a second account was set up with G 
that used the same phone, rather than just use the account that had already been set up.There are several hurdles for an unknown third party to overcome before they can use the 
phone to order food from G. Mr Z has said other people, including the janitors at the 
residence could have accessed his room, so its not implausible that his phone could be 
taken, but I dont think the PIN could have easily been bypassed. Mr Z said it was an easy 
PIN to remember, but I dont think thats the case. Assuming the phone was taken by 
someone without his permission, they would be faced with a random four-digit PIN to bypass 
and repeated attempts to gain access would most likely trigger the security protocols 
contained in the phone, which would make accessing it more and more difficult. My 
understanding is that this particular model phone would switch itself off for increasingly long 
periods of time if incorrect PINs were repeatedly used.
But even if I accepted that someone successfully bypassed the PIN, they would still need to 
be able to obtain the card details in order to set up a new account with G. In their original 
notice to Mr Z, G stated they didnt record payment details because they used a payment 
service merchant to do this on their behalf. So, I think its unlikely the account details held 
with G would have the necessary card information, including the three-digit security code, to 
open a different account. But even if they did, Id question why an unauthorised third party 
would choose to use these details with a food delivery business, rather than use it to 
purchase items they could use or sell. 
I also looked at the pattern of spending on the account. What this shows is that the disputed 
payments were made over a period of some months and there werent any other attempts to 
use the card details to empty the account. Whilst there isnt a typical use of stolen card 
details, its generally accepted that if an unknown third party had access to someones card 
details, they wouldnt know when the owner of the account would notice these unusual 
transactions and block the card. An unknown third party would be more likely to maximise 
their access to the account and make repeated purchases before the card was blocked, 
which wasnt the case here. There were some larger transactions made with G which 
matched the limit Mr Z had used on his personal account. But, as his account had funds in it 
and the transactions used an additional layer of security - 3D Secure - to authenticate them, 
I dont think they would have stood out to NatWest as being particularly unusual.
Mr Z argued that his use of internet banking a few months before he notified NatWest isnt 
knowledge that he knew his account was being emptied. He stated that the balance wasnt 
displayed on the Home screen, so he couldnt be aware of what was happening. NatWest 
confirmed that the available balance is displayed as soon as the log-in screens are 
completed. I think its likely Mr Z could see the available balance, but he also said he hadnt 
used it for some time and couldnt remember the balance.
Mr Z checked his account towards the end of September when his balance had dropped to a 
few hundred pounds, having been at over three thousand prior to the start of the disputed 
transactions, but didnt notify NatWest until early November. I think the significant decrease 
in his balance would have been noticeable to Mr Z at that point in late September. I dont 
know why there was a delay in reporting his concerns to NatWest, but I think it likely Mr Z 
knew there was a problem much earlier than when he reported it to NatWest.
Taking everything into account, there are two critical aspects to this complaint that persuade 
me that the disputed transactions werent carried out without Mr Zs knowledge. Thats how 
the PIN was bypassed and how the card details were obtained. I havent seen any evidence 
or a plausible explanation to show how an unauthorised third party could have successfully 
used Mr Zs phone whilst he was out of the country without his knowledge or permission. 
Whilst Im sure Mr Z will disagree with me, I think it more likely than not that Mr Z was 
responsible for allowing these transactions to be made and its reasonable for NatWest to 
hold him liable for them.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman