DRN-1715524
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs B took out the policy over the phone in September 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and AXA no longer 
has any of the sales documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising. 
So Ive based my decision on the evidence that we do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. 
Although AXA doesnt have any documentation from the time, it does have some system 
records that show basic information about the start and end dates of the card and the start 
date and sales method of the PPI.
AXA has provided evidence that Mrs B opened her store card account earlier in 2003 and 
didnt take out the PPI until September 2003, when she was sold it over the phone. As Mrs B 
already had the card at that time, she cant have thought that the PPI was a condition of 
having the credit. Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mrs B would have known 
that she had a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that she probably decided to 
buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know if AXA advised Mrs B to buy the policy or not, but that makes no difference to 
the outcome of my decision. If it did advise her to buy it, AXA would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Mrs Bs needs. And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Mrs Bs employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer than Mrs B would have received full pay for. Mrs B hasnt provided 
details of any other means, such as savings, that she could fall back on. So, I consider she had a need for the policy and could have benefited from it if shed been unable to work due 
to accident, sickness or unemployment.
I think that Mrs B would have known something about the policy  that it would cover her 
card repayments if she was unable to work  because I dont think shed have decided to 
take it out without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs B wasnt affected by any of those 
things. Because I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that more information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse off 
as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to do 
to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman