DRN-3751324
The complaint
Mr U and Mrs U complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) unfairly 
declined a claim for an escape of water under a home insurance policy.
As Mr U dealt with the claim, I will normally only refer to him.
What happened
A tap was left on in Mr Us home, which resulted in the water overflowing. Mr U contacted 
AA to make a claim for water damage. AA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. For the 
electrics, the surveyor said the main issue with the fuse box was that it had failed. The 
surveyor said the water had highlighted a pre-existing issue. 
AA also sent an electrician to carry out an inspection. The electrician found that the damage 
to the electrics was the result of poor workmanship and gradual deterioration of materials. 
The electrician left the property and spoke to his company about what he had found. The 
electrician returned to the property to collect his ladders and Mr U refused to let him in. After 
a while, the electrician left with his ladders, but didnt put the cover back on the fuse box, 
leaving exposed wires.
Mr U complained to AA about the claim being declined and that his property was left unsafe 
by the electrician. When AA replied, it maintained its decision to decline the claim and said 
the electrician hadnt been allowed to re-enter the property. AA said the electrician was 
unable to reconnect the fuse box anyway as doing so could have resulted in a fire.
When Mr U complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
evidence from Mr Us electrician who completed the works, and who had seen the fuse box 
shortly before the escape of water, showed there hadnt been an issue with it beforehand. 
He also said AAs electrician had left the fuse box in an unsafe condition, so AA should pay 
£200 compensation.
As AA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Following the escape of water and AA declining the claim, Mr U had work carried out on the 
electrics of his home. This included a complete rewire of both upstairs and downstairs and a 
new fuse box. Mr U has said AA should pay for this work as it was the result of the escape of 
water.
Ive looked at the damage to the fuse box and the downstairs wiring. The issue with the fuse 
box was whether any damage to it was the result of the escape of water or was pre-existing. 
An electrician visited Mr Us property a few weeks before the escape of water happened. He 
said he had seen no damage to the existing circuits. The electrician later confirmed to this 
service that he had only used the fuse box to isolate the circuits he was working on. He said 
he hadnt seen any signs of damage. My understanding of this is that the electrician didnt 
open the fuse box during his visit. 
When AAs electrician visited, he said:
Upon initial inspection of the consumer unit it seemed to have all MCB (miniature circuit 
breakers) in the on position; and with the cover on there were no signs of overheating. It was 
soon apparent from further investigation of the property that the overall electrical installation 
was sub- standard and there was a further issue that was potentially unrelated to the EOW...
I removed the consumer unit cover  Immediately the smell of burnt cable insulation was 
apparent.
Although Mr Us electrician didnt see any issues with the fuse box, based on AAs 
assessment, it seems any damage to the fuse box would only have been visible by removing 
its cover. So, Im not currently persuaded that Mr Us electricians visit a few weeks before 
the escape of water showed there were no issues with the fuse box at that time.
When AAs surveyor visited Mr Us home, his report said:
Only minor resulting damage has been present following the sudden loss of water, the main 
concern is to the electric on the ground floor. Following the loss of water the fuse board had 
failed to trip and caused the wiring to heat and melt, subsequently the electrics on the 
ground floor no longer work. The fuse board was also installed and clear areas of heat 
damage had been noted to the sockets trip switch. The fuse box appeared to have failed and 
the loss of water has merely highlighted this area of concern, the customer however has 
confirmed no historically electric issues.
When AAs electrician visited, he found: 
The only peril related incident that had occurred is that the water had tripped the electrics. 
All visible damage  to the wires/circuit boards/breakers is due to poor workmanship and 
gradual deterioration of materials. As you can see from the photos, one circuit breaker has 
burnt and fused the wiring and the other has a burnt hole in the side of the box/cover. The 
wires to the lighting are overheating from loose connections/wiring and the insulation 
resistance tests identified wires which were touching somewhere along the circuit possible 
hidden inside the walls. Our electrician advised that the entire circuit within the property was 
unsafe and there was now no power to the property apart from lights. At the very least a new 
breaker would need to be fitted.
When the electrician removed the fuse box cover and found the damage, he said:
At this point I told Mr [U]  that I no longer believed the issue to be related to the escape of 
water; the cables had melted and the  two circuit breakers either side of the socket circuit 
MCB had all fused together. 
In my professional opinion this has been caused due to a loose connection, which in turn 
has arced under load causing the cables to overheat and damaged the MCBs.  Throughout 
the entirety of my professional experience I have never known water ingress to make any 
electrical component over heat, especially when the EOW was at the back of the property, 
and the consumer unit at the front of the house.
Mr Us electrician told our service:No doubt the water leak was so severe it would force a downstairs rewire, the consumer 
unit (fuse board) failing to trip the breakers didnt help either so when the water leaked 
instead of tripping at the board, the supply stayed live causing damage in a lot of lights, 
sockets etc. Then eventually burned out the breakers at the consumer unit.
So, based on the electricians assessments, I currently think the evidence shows that the 
fuse box failed to trip when it should have and that this was due to a pre-existing issue, 
rather than the escape of water.
AAs electrician also found issues with the downstairs wiring, which were assessed to be the 
result of the pre-existing issues with the fuse box. Mr U also provided our service with an 
email from his electrician that said: 
I believe the faulty sockets which caused this whole issue in the first place were part of 
kitchen/utility circuit, Located directly below the bathroom.

Had the inspector found this issue we may have only had to rewire the downstairs circuits 
and replace the consumer unit
Mr Us electrician told AA:
The sockets with the fault  is in the utility room next door which had a tumble dryer 
plugged into it, was hidden away so your guy could have easily missed it but when it came to 
rewiring the property it's only when we took it down (was on top of washing machine) we 
saw the socket was burned. So it may have been a faulty tumble dryer which caused it as it 
was looking old but obviously the consumer unit failed
Based on both electricians findings, I dont think there was evidence to show the issue with 
the downstairs wiring was due to the escape of water. From what Ive seen, the electrical 
issues were the result of an issue with the fuse box, the condition of the wiring and a 
possible fault with the tumble dryer. So, I think it was reasonable for AA to decide that the 
electrical problems were the result of pre-existing issues that the escape of water then 
highlighted.
As the work carried out by Mr Us electrician also covered the upstairs wiring, Ive also 
looked at whether AA should have covered that. Mr Us electrician told our service he 
advised Mr U that only downstairs needed rewiring but said Mr U told him hed been told the 
whole house was a danger and needed rewiring. So, I havent seen evidence that work on 
the upstairs electrics was because of damage caused by the escape of water. As a result, I 
dont currently intend to say AA needs to cover that work.
So, thinking about all of the above, I currently think it was reasonable for AA to decide that 
none of the issues with the electrics were the result of the escape of water and for it to 
decline to cover any of the electrical work.
Mr U also said AAs electrician left the fuse box in a dangerous state with wires exposed. Its 
my understanding that its not in dispute that the electrician didnt put the cover back on the 
fuse box. So, Ive looked at why it was left in this state. From what Ive seen, the electrician 
took the cover off the fuse box as part of assessing whether any damage to it should be 
covered as part of the claim. The electrician then told Mr U he didnt think the damage was 
the result of the escape of water. At this point, the conversation seemed to become difficult 
and the electrician left Mr Us home and phoned his office to explain the situation. The electrician then returned to Mr Us home, but it seems Mr U refused to allow him back 
into the property. The electrician then phoned his office and the conversation between the 
electrician and Mr U was recorded. 
Ive listened to the recording. This seemed to be a difficult conversation that focussed on 
whether the electrician could enter Mr Us home to collect the ladders or, if Mr U wouldnt 
agree to this, the ladders be passed to him. The electrician later told AA that Mr U asked his 
son to get the ladders and pass them to the electrician. It isnt always clear from the 
recording who is speaking, but based on listening to the call, it seems the electrician was 
given the ladders without being allowed to re-enter Mr Us home. The electrician later 
explained to AA that he was therefore unable to do anything further with the fuse box. So, 
thinking about this, although the fuse box seems not to have been put back together, from 
what I can see the electrician wasnt able to re-enter Mr Us home and couldnt carry out any 
further work on it before he left. As a result, I dont think I can fairly say AA or the electrician 
needs to take responsibility for the state the fuse box was left in.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for AA to decline the claim for the 
electrics and I havent seen anything that persuades me AA or its contractors need to take 
responsibility for the state of the fuse box following the visit. As a result, I dont currently 
intend to uphold this complaint or to require AA to do anything further in relation to it.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 November 2022. Both parties replied by that date.
AA confirmed it had nothing to add.
Mr U said:
I had totally ignored that an electrician had fitted a smart meter five days before the 
incident and he couldnt have done so if the fuse box was failing at that point. 
By the time AA visited, his own electrician had removed sockets and light fittings, so it 
wasnt surprising they were loosely or totally disconnected. Mr Us electrician had tried to 
find the fault, not repair it. Mr U was also left for two weeks in freezing cold and with no 
downstairs electrics.
He had also proved AAs electrician a liar on two counts. He had said he was going to 
lunch and wouldnt have come back if he hadnt left his ladder. AAs electrician also 
didnt check the socket that caused the fault and sent his apprentice to collect the 
ladders. The electrician had left the electrics unsafe when he went for lunch/ to write up 
his report. This showed he had no intention to make it safe.
I had bought into the billions to one chance that the system failed or was failing in the 
five days between the smart meeting being fitted and the flood, which was crazy odds. 
Industry guidelines recommended a require every 25-30 years or after a flood. Mr U 
suggested that AA should do this because of the flood.
He felt totally let down. He had taken out insurance for peace of mind.
He felt AA were discredited because their electrician stayed hardly any time and found 
nothing. If he hadnt found loose wiring, Mr U would have been surprised, as he was late 
to the party and Mr Us electrician had already disconnected just about everything 
downstairs.
AAs electrician tried to please his masters. Mr Us electrician witnessed the devastation 
and sympathised. But the really impartial person was the electrician who fitted the smart 
meter, which shows the smart meter was fine at that stage. The fuse box was only about 
£600 of the rewire, which was the excess on the policy. 
Mr U only ever wanted to recover the cost of the rewiring, but there were also ruined 
carpets, painting all the rooms, lino etc.He said he felt cheated and heartbroken.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered Mr Us comments but this hasnt 
changed my view. 
When I made my provisional decision, I was aware of the smart meter fitting. However, I 
hadnt, and still havent, seen any evidence of what inspections or other work that electrician 
carried out. One of the issues with this complaint is the condition of the fuse box. However, I 
havent seen any evidence that shows me what the electrician did in relation to the fuse box, 
including if he removed the cover. In my view, there isnt enough evidence to show that the 
electrician visiting to fit the smart meter meant the fuse box, or the wiring more widely, didnt 
have any issues. I still think it was reasonable for AA to decline the claim for the electrics.
In terms of the fuse box being left unsafe, Ive looked at this again. I based my view on the 
evidence available to me, including the call recording. Clearly there had been a breakdown 
in the relationship, which led to a difficult conversation. Mr U has said that if the electrician 
hadnt left the ladder, he would have just left. I cant comment on that because that isnt what 
happened. Based on what Ive seen, I remain of the view that AA doesnt need to take 
responsibility for the state the fuse box was left in.
Im aware of Mr Us concern and disappointment about the claim being declined. I dont 
doubt the impact on him because of the damage to his home, including the costs to carry to 
the repairs. However, based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint or require 
AA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman