DRN-3751218
The complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) closed her fixed term deposit early.
What happened
Ms R had a five-year fixed rate ISA which was due to mature on 1 March 2022. She 
instructed the deposit to be transferred to another provider (A) and completed the application 
form with A. NBS received the transfer form on 16 February 2022, and closed Ms Rs fixed 
rate ISA on 18 February 2022. Because the deposit was closed ahead of maturity, she lost 
interest of £620.
Ms R complained. She said NBS had closed her account ahead of maturity without any 
warning text or any other contact. She said that NBS shouldve asked questions of her  as 
there was only 11 days to go to maturity.
NBS said that they understood from Ms Rs complaint - that the transfer request completed 
by Ms R at A kept defaulting to transfer immediately as opposed to waiting to maturity. NBS 
said they transferred the deposit in accordance with Ms Rs instructions  which said it was 
to be transferred immediately. Given the volume of ISA instructions they receive it wasnt 
viable to scrutinise every one and try to contact customers to confirm accuracy. Also, it 
wasnt unusual for customers to transfer funds prior to maturity  many customers do that 
because of their circumstances. NBS suggested that Ms R contact the new provider, A, if it 
was due to a technical error by A.
Ms R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said NBS acted reasonably and hadnt 
made any errors. The transfer form showed Ms Rs instruction to transfer immediately, and 
NBS acted in line with that. It was Ms Rs responsibility to ensure the instruction was 
completed as she wished.
Ms R asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We asked more questions of NBS, and looked at a copy of the transfer form completed by 
Ms R. It clearly indicated transfer immediately. So  NBS didnt make an error: as they 
acted on Ms Rs instructions. Ms R has argued that NBS shouldve realised there was an 
error on the form and contacted her. She said they owed a duty of care to her to do that  
given that the deposit matured in a few days time. 
I can see where she is coming from  but I agree thats not part of NBS role. Savings arent 
regulated products - and so NBS arent responsible for giving advice. Its down to customers 
to make their own decisions based on the information given to them by savings providers. 
And I agree that NBS cant be expected to look at every transfer request and contact 
customers to validate their instructions. I know Ms R will disagree, but I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect NBS to have done that.
And so  I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. However, I saw that she brought her associated 
complaint against A to us  and has received a final decision from an ombudsman which 
upheld her complaint and awarded her the refund of the lost interest of £620, plus 
compensation of £250. And she has accepted that decision. Therefore, Ms R has got the 
outcome she was looking for in any case  which I trust she is happy with. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman