DRN-3555154
The complaint
A, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt deal with it being unable to 
access online banking and says that this has resulted in costs and inconvenience.
What happened
In August 2021 an official of A was unable to access online banking. He contacted HSBC 
and was sent a replacement security device. But he says he didnt receive a security code 
that was needed to activate this. He filled in forms to reset his online details several times. 
And he says this required him travelling to obtain the director of As signature and then going 
to a branch. He has claimed £3,128 of related expenses. He says he didnt have access 
from 25 August to 12 December 2021. 
HSBC said that it accepted that one of the Offline Details Reset (ODR) forms was blank. 
And that it hadnt noticed this and told A about it. So, it paid A £100 in compensation. It said 
that this official was successfully assisted to log in online again on 5 November 2021. And 
that the director of A was an additional user and had access to online banking during the 
period.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and A be paid a further 
£150 for inconvenience. She noted that A had been sent a new device on 2 September 2021 
and a message with the security code. The official had contacted it for another code on 9 
September 2021. The official called a number of times. HSBC had documented that it had 
sent out further codes when requested. The email contact details for the official for his 
access to online banking were out of date. And this would have stopped information getting 
through. While it was fairly up to A to keep its details up to date, she thought that given the 
repeated contact HSBC might reasonably have been able to identify this was the issue 
earlier on. She hadnt heard in the call recordings wed been sent that A had been told to go 
to a branch. There had been some confusion as there were two issues here. The ODR was 
required to reset security and that was separate to the requirement to register the new 
device which could be done with a code. And given the issue with the email she 
recommended the additional compensation. She didnt think any other payment was 
warranted.
A said it didnt agree that things were sorted out by 5 November 2021. It understood its 
responsibility for the contact details. But a letter about its complaint had gone to the correct 
email address. A wanted an ombudsmans review. It wanted to be compensated and would 
otherwise consider court action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call recordings provided between the official of A and HSBC. I note that 
HSBC, despite a further request, wasnt able to provide a copy of the call recording of 5 
November 2021. In any event as our investigator says it is now apparent that there were two 
issues. The official of A had been sent a replacement security device and this needed to be 
registered with a code. But if the official had also been locked from the account and was 
unable to reset his password using the online function hed need to complete the ODR.
A number of ODRs were completed. And each time A was told that they would be actioned 
within two to three business hours and that an email would be sent about this with the details 
necessary to proceed. A never received the email. And it is clear that this was because the 
email registered with Internet Banking was one that was no longer in use. It is also apparent 
that the submission of a new ODR form meant that the official couldnt clear security on the 
telephone and that any past agreements to reset security were superseded.
I note from a copy of the ODR form that A has supplied that it didnt need to be taken into a 
branch but could be uploaded online. In a call on 21 September 2021 the official had told 
HSBC that hed been to a branch the day before with the form because he couldnt upload it 
himself. And if security on an account is locked and cant be restored then the form would 
need to be completed in line with the signing mandate for the account. I dont see that HSBC 
was responsible for the account being locked in the first place and so arranging for the form 
to be completed was something A would be reasonably expected to do.
My understanding is that A was able to receive text messages to the number registered. The 
official referred in a call on 29 October 2021 with the internet banking team to having 
received such a message. But when during the call he attempted to get online there was a 
message that the password was incorrect. And when he tried to click a link that hed 
forgotten his password he received a message saying reset the security details. So, it seems 
that at issue from his contact with HSBC from 20 September 2021 was the account being 
locked. Thats why A had submitted an ODR form that day. And when it contacted HSBC the 
next day it referred to having been told in branch that this would be addressed within two to 
three hours. That hadnt happened and a complaint was raised. It seems that the correct 
email address was taken for the complaint. But that in itself didnt mean that the contact 
information for internet banking would be changed. Im also not clear it could have been 
while the account was locked.
Having not had the promised response to the ODR form the official contacted HSBC and 
also arranged for further forms. One of the forms was blank when received and HSBC 
accepts it didnt tell A about this. The others seemed to have been dealt with. And also, in 
the call on 29 October 2021 with the internet banking team one was said to have been 
approved on 26 October 2021. But by then there was a further one outstanding.
The information from HSBC documents that the official of A was able with assistance to log 
in on 5 November 2021. And that was after the contact email had been changed on the 
account. I dont see any other steps had to be taken after that. But I dont doubt that as the 
official says he also spoke to someone in the internet team on 12 December 2021 to assist 
with logging in then too.
The root causes of the issues were the security device needing to be replaced which isnt 
uncommon, the account being locked it seems by incorrect password or security information 
being entered and that the email address for the account wasnt up to date. These were all 
areas that HSBC needed to assist A with. It did follow its normal process. And I agree that as 
A said it wasnt receiving emails  an ongoing problem here  there was an earlier 
opportunity for this to be resolved. The official of A didnt realise that the details which had 
been registered some years earlier were out of date.
I need to think about compensation for what happened. A substantial part of the claim 
appears to be fees that the official would have claimed from A for the time involved. We only 
look at the impact on A here as it is a separate legal entity. And even if these fees had been charged by the official to A we wouldnt generally make awards based on units of time and 
nor at professional rates. A didnt seem to have to go to a branch to submit a form and I 
didnt hear him being told to do so in any of the call recordings Ive listened to. In any event it 
was reasonably down to A to get the form completed if needed and submitted as it chose to 
do. And as Ive set out the reason that more forms were submitted was either because one 
was blank, or the response hadnt been received. I dont consider I can fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for the related expenses A refers to.
I know that the official needed to access the account online. He was able if he wanted to 
make payments using telephone banking. And the director of A - the other user - had active 
access to the account during the period which could help mitigate the impact here for A.
Having balanced all the factors I consider that the further compensation for inconvenience 
recommended by our investigator is reasonable. This reflects that HSBC might have been 
able to help resolve this earlier. And in reaching that view I again take into account the root 
causes of what happened. So, the further compensation is £150 and combined with what 
has been paid makes a total of £250. 
If A doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any 
time limits as it has indicated it may do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay A 
a further £150 making total compensation of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman