DRN-3915303
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc refused to pay an account switch incentive. 
What happened
On 9 March 2022 Mr N started an account switch application with Santander. Mr N has 
explained he intended to switch his account and qualify for a £140 switch incentive. 
Santanders website gave qualifying criteria for the switch incentive and said customers had 
to complete the following within 60 days of applying: 
- Deposit £1,000 into the account
- Set up and maintain two active direct debits
- Set up and access either online or mobile banking facilities
The website advises that if the above criteria are met, customers will receive the £140 switch 
incentive. 
On 26 March 2022 Mr N contacted Santander to ask about qualifying criteria relating to the 
level of deposits required. The first agent Mr N spoke with incorrectly advised Mr N hed 
need to deposit £1,000 each month into his account. But when challenged, the agent 
checked and confirmed only one deposit of £1,000 was required. During the call, Mr N 
complained and was passed to a complaint handler. 
The complaint handler apologised that Mr N had been given the incorrect deposit criteria 
during their call with the agent. But they thought the original agent had quickly corrected their 
mistake and provided the right answer. 
On 1 June 2022 Mr N spoke with Santander again to query why the switch incentive hadnt 
been paid. During this call, Mr N was incorrectly advised the qualifying period was 90 days, 
not 60. Mr N went on to set up a second direct debit on 22 June 2022 which was outside 
both the correct 60 day period given online and 90 day period incorrectly quoted on 1 June 
2022. 
On 24 June 2022 Mr N spoke with Santander and was advised he hadnt qualified for the 
switch incentive as he didnt set up two direct debits within 60 days, in line with the qualifying 
criteria. Mr N complained and Santander sent a final response. Santander said Mr N didnt 
qualify and reiterated he hadnt set up two direct debits within the qualifying 60 day period. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ns complaint. They thought Santander had dealt 
with Mr Ns case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr N asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns complained that the first agent he spoke with initially gave him the wrong information. 
Mr N went on to raise a complaint during his call. And the complaint handler confirmed the 
correct position and apologised for the error made by the original agent. I accept the 
incorrect answer was given at first. But the original agent corrected their error and that was 
confirmed by the complaint handler. In addition, Santander apologised for the mistake. 
We cant fine or punish a business for making a mistake. We award compensation where 
appropriate to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused to a customer. But we 
focus on how the issues raised have impacted the customer in order to decide whether its 
fair to ask a business to pay compensation. Here, whilst I agree there was a mistake, it was 
quickly corrected when Mr N challenged the answer he was given. Im satisfied the 
confirming the correct response and offering an apology fairly reflects what happened and 
the impact to Mr N. I havent been persuaded it would be fair to tell Santander to 
compensate Mr N for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As Ive noted above, to qualify for the switch incentive Mr N needed to pay in £1,000, access 
his online or mobile banking facility and set up two active direct debits within 60 days of 
making the account switch application. That gave Mr N until around 11 May 2022 to ensure 
he met the qualifying criteria. As only one direct debit had been set up in that period, Mr N 
didnt meet the qualifying criteria to receive the account switch incentive. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr N but Im satisfied Santander has fairly applied its qualifying criteria when 
deciding whether to pay the switch incentive. I havent been persuaded it was unfair for 
Santander act in line with the account switch incentives terms. 
Mr N spoke with Santander again on 1 June 2022. But by that point, hed already missed the 
deadline for setting up the second direct debit and receiving the switch incentive. The agent 
Mr N spoke with advised there was 90 days to qualify which was wrong. So despite Mr N 
setting up a second direct debit on 22 June 2022 Im satisfied the deadline for qualifying for 
the switch incentive had already passed. 
I agree that some of the information agents gave Mr N was wrong. But Im satisfied he had 
access to the switch incentives details when he applied which clearly set out the qualifying 
criteria. Whilst I agree there were some mistakes, Im satisfied the terms of the switch 
incentive were clear and not misleading. I understand Mr Ns frustration, but I havent been 
persuaded to tell Santander to pay the switch incentive in this case. 
I agree the service provided at times fell short. But, overall, Im satisfied Santander dealt with 
Mr Ns complaint fairly. And, for the reasons set out above, I havent found grounds to tell 
Santander to pay the switch incentive or take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman