DRN-4184336
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) has unlawfully used
tracking pixels in emails sent to him concerning his credit card account.
What happened
In its response to the complaint, Tesco Bank explained that its Privacy Policy says that it 
collects and uses data when the account holder uses Tesco Banks website; mobile app; 
and when opening emails. Specifically, it says Tesco collects information about the account 
holders browsing behaviour, including which links the account holder clicks on and 
information about any devices the account holder uses to access the website and apps 
(including the make, model and operating system, IP address, browser type and mobile 
device identifiers).
However, Tesco Bank did acknowledge that there was no mechanism for the account holder 
to opt in or out of non-marketing emails, and so Tesco Bank upheld that part of Mr Js 
complaint and agreed to pay Mr J £50 for bringing the matter to Tesco Banks attention.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and after asking Tesco for more information, 
he was able to provide more information about the tracking pixels that Tesco used. He 
explained that they were deployed as standard for use at an aggregated level and that they 
do not collect personal customer data and they do not collect any individual behaviour.
The adjudicator also explained that Tesco had decided to continue the use of the tracking 
pixels going forwards as there was no risk to privacy or personal data.
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think that Tesco Bank needs to do anything more than 
what it has already done to put matters right in this case.
Firstly, I note that Mr J says that Tesco Banks actions in this matter are unlawful. However, I 
would like to remind Mr J that our service is not a court of law. As such, it is not for me to say 
if Tesco Bank has broken the law. All that I am able to do is consider whether Tesco Bank 
has acted fairly and reasonably. And if it hasnt, to decide what, if anything, Tesco Bank 
needs to do to put matters right for Mr J. Although when doing this, I do take into account 
everything that both parties have provided, as well as the relevant laws and regulations in 
place.
Mr J has identified that cookies (in the form of tracking pixels) were used in non-marketing 
emails Tesco Bank sent to him about his credit card account. Mr J says that the rules that 
apply to the use of cookies stipulates that his express consent should be obtained first, 
before they are used. In response to this point, Tesco conceded that there was indeed no 
mechanism for Mr J to opt-in or opt-out of the emails mentioned. 
As such, given that Tesco acknowledges that it did not provide Mr J with the ability to opt-in 
or out of the use of cookies in the non-marketing emails it sent to Mr J, all that is left for me 
to consider is what impact, if any, this had on Mr J.
Tesco Bank has explained that the tracking pixels are added to its emails via the email 
platform that it uses. And has said the following about the data that the tracking pixels 
collect:
They do not collect personal customer data. The tracking pixels are non-intrusive 
and are used as standard at an aggregated level, the measurement pixel is not used 
to look at individual behaviour. They are deployed by our supplier and are used to 
create aggregated data e.g. what percentage of customers opened the email, rather 
than to monitor the behaviour of individuals or to further target them as a result, any 
tracking pixels that are deployed are only active for 30 days.
So based on what Tesco Bank has said and also the information that Mr J has provided our 
service about tracking pixels and how they operate, it doesnt seem likely that any of Mr Js 
personal data was captured by the cookies in question. So, whilst what has happened (i.e. 
not obtaining consent for the use of cookies in non-marketing emails) may constitute a 
breach of the relevant data protection regulations, I cant see that Mr J has experienced any 
harm or financial loss as a result of this. 
As such, I think that Tesco Banks offer to pay Mr J £50 is reasonable compensation for any 
distress or inconvenience caused by Mr Js discovery of the tracking pixels being used. 
Finally, Tesco Bank has explained that it does not currently intend to change its practices 
concerning tracking pixels in emails - essentially because it says it does not collect customer 
personal data when using them and they are primarily used to provide statistics on how 
many emails are opened in an emailing campaign or mass mailing. This is something that Mr 
J should bear in mind going forwards, when deciding whether he wants to keep his credit 
card account with Tesco Bank. 
To resolve matters, Mr J has demanded that Tesco Bank stop the unlawful tracking 
immediately. 
As I already explained in my jurisdiction decision, and also explained by the adjudicator, our 
service is not a regulator. It is therefore beyond the remit of our service to fine or punish 
Tesco Bank for its business practices. Nor is our service able to instruct Tesco Bank to 
change its business practices.
 
As such, if Mr J wishes to challenge Tesco Bank on its decision to use (and continue to use) 
tracking pixels in the manner that it does, he will need to do so outside of this service. I can 
see that the adjudicator provided Mr J with the contact details of the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) in his first assessment of the complaint. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, it is my decision that Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
does not need to do anything more than what it has already done, to put matters right in 
relation to this matter.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman