DRN-3198025
The complaint
Ms B complains that her credit facility account with Indigo Michael, trading as Safety Net 
(SNC), was mismanaged by it. And ultimately SNC registered late payments and a default 
and then closed the account.
What happened
Ms B was approved for a credit facility with SNC. It was a running account facility which 
means that usually a credit limit is set at the beginning (which can be increased and 
sometimes decreased over time) and the customer is able to draw down on that facility when 
needed.
We have not been informed by SNC about the details of that facility. From information 
gathered from the credit file entries which are at the heart of this complaint we have been 
able to see that the account was opened in July 2019, the address attached to the owner of 
the SNC account is that belonging to Ms B, that the credit facility account number ended
*9208 and in September 2020 the credit limit was £910 and the balance was £876. A later 
screenshot (of a third partys credit file  which is explained later in this decision) included a 
message that the credit limit for the account was due to change to £396 and was going to be 
uploaded to the credit file agencies on 3 November 2020. A later screenshot (around 
November 2020) included a message that the account had exceeded its limits  new limit
£396 and the then current balance was £797.
In October 2020 Ms B received a call from the third party which, to make this decision easier 
to read and to understand, I will refer to as Mrs X. I have deliberately chosen the title
Mrs X knowing it is nothing like the actual title or name of that third party involved.
Ms B was informed by Mrs X, who coincidentally knew Ms B, that a credit facility account 
with SNC had appeared on her (Mrs Xs) credit file citing Mrs X as the owner of it and citing 
Ms Bs address. All the information referred to above about the account, including the 
change in credit limit, relate to screenshots of Mrs Xs credit file sent to Ms B as she needed
evidence to forward to the SNC investigator in February 2021.
Ms B and Mrs X prepared and sent to SNC a joint complaint letter in October 2020.
The email sent by SNC to Mrs X (not to Ms B), shows that SNCs response to the complaint 
was making checks about whether Mrs X was upset about it being a fraudulent account.
Ms B and Mrs X realised that SNC had not understood the issue. Their joint complaint did 
not relate to fraud, but alleged mis-reporting of Ms Bs information on Mrs Xs credit file.
Somewhere around this time Ms B did give SNC authority to discuss the complaint with
Mrs X as Mrs X was not an account holder with SNC and never had been. This was to try to 
facilitate an easier way to investigate the complaint.
The final response letter issued by SNC and dated 18 December 2020 was addressed to 
Mrs X, sent to Mrs Xs address, referred to Ms B in full giving details of the outstanding 
balance on the account and concluded:
Following a thorough investigation into the claims that [Ms Bs] data had been 
erroneously shared and that your credit file had been marked incorrectly, we were 
unable to find any evidence to corroborate these claims. .this is not to say that we 
are refuting the claims made.
Unfortunately, due to a limited amount of data we have available to us when looking 
at credit file entries, we are unable to definitively conclude that there may have been 
some failings on our part.
SNC went on to offer a resolution which was:
- write off from Ms Bs account the outstanding balance, which was around £790, 
including capital and interest, and
- delete all records of the SNC account from Ms Bs credit file the next time SNC 
reported to the credit bureau which would have the effect of removing it from Mrs 
Xs credit file as well as Ms Bs.
SNC did not really accept that it had done anything wrong. The offered resolution was in 
recognition of the distress caused. The resolution was offered in full and final settlement of 
the complaint.
Neither Ms B nor Mrs X were satisfied. Neither accepted SNCs offer. Ms B has told us that 
she did not authorise Mrs X or any other party to accept this on her behalf.
Ms B referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. I know that Mrs X did the same 
thing but I am dealing with Ms Bs complaint only.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and having looked at what she had from 
both parties she came to a view. Our adjudicator thought that SNC had done some things 
wrong.
Our adjudicator also explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot investigate 
breaches of the Data Protection Act and/or the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
If SNC had agreed that it had done wrong we may have been able to look at compensating
Ms B for those data breaches.
Our adjudicator did explain that we can look at what has gone wrong and using the fair and 
reasonable remit, look to see what, if anything SNC has done to try to put things right. Our 
adjudicator was persuaded that what SNC had offered (and done) to put things right was 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And as for compensation, our adjudicator did consider it was due to Ms B but as just over
£790 of capital and interest owing on the SNC account before the credit file issue arose had 
been written off then our adjudicator felt that was more than we would have normally 
awarded for compensation. Our adjudicator thought that a figure of around £400 to £500 
would likely have been the adequate figure. SNCs deletion of the whole outstanding amount 
which also meant that Ms B had no debt and so nothing to repay led our adjudicator to 
consider that was enough.And as Ms B had been concerned about adverse markers on her credit file then the deletion 
of it from Ms Bs credit file had in fact dealt with that part too. So, our adjudicator did not 
think that it was fair to ask SNC to do more.
Ms B was not content. She explained that SNCs lack of understanding about the complaint, 
mis-management of the account in the first place to which it had never owned up, and the 
mismanagement of the complaint (such as sending the FRL to Mrs X) had not been 
accounted for. Ms B also felt that shed not adequately been compensated for the 
embarrassment factor. Ms B had no confidence in SNCs ability to safeguard her personal 
details going forward.
Our adjudicator wrote to SNC for some additional details. It replied to say that there was only 
one potentially erroneous link to the to the other partys credit file. Due to the way our 
linkage and reporting to the credit reference agencies work, it can only be possible to report 
one account onto one individual credit file.
Later Ms B raised a new point: Ms B did not ask for the SNC account to be closed and is not 
content with, what Ms B says, was the incorrect reason SNC has informed her as to why the 
account was closed.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide.
Having reviewed the complaint, I asked our adjudicator to obtain more information from SNC 
and from Ms B. And having received more detail from both parties, including recorded 
telephone calls, I reviewed it all and come to some provisional conclusions. 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 April 2022 and I gave both parties time to reply. Both 
parties have responded and so here is a duplicate of my provisional decision, in smaller type 
to differentiate it, followed by my decision to bring this matter to a close. 
My provisional decision issued 11 April 2022
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity I have sub-divided each subject surrounding Ms Bs complaint and inevitably there is 
overlap but by doing it that way I consider it easier to read and deal with all the points.
GDPR
The GDPR issue is that Ms B complains that her personal financial details have been reported to a 
credit agency incorrectly such that they have appeared on the third partys own credit file (Mrs X). And 
Ms B says that the GDPR breach has continued as
-when the third party called SNC to ask about what had suddenly appeared on her own (third 
partys) credit file, the SNC operative appears to have told that third party lots of information 
about the SNC account which belongs to Ms B and not the third party. Ms B knows this as 
the third party was an acquaintance of Ms Bs and reported this to Ms B. So, Ms B says that 
confidential customer information about her has been given to that third party; plus
-SNCs final response letter (FRL) was sent to that third party in December 2020 and not to Ms 
B as it should have been.
Our adjudicator is correct that we cannot determine if there has been a breach of the GDPR regarding 
any of Ms Bs personal data. The Information Commissioner (IC) is the person to whom these points 
need to be made and for the IC to determine them.However, I can consider this as part of the administration of the account relating to the way SNC has 
administered its business, provided that the business is an activity subject to our jurisdiction. And 
holding personal information and then failing to keep it safe can fall under that part of the manner in 
which a respondent has administered its business: DISP 2.1.4G.
SNC is required to observe the FCA Principles and there is an overlap between that and complying 
with the data protection principles.
SNC denies it has done anything wrong and the closest it gets to accepting anything is where it refers 
to a potential breach.
The incorrect information on the wrong credit file.
I have the advantage of having been sent by Ms B screenshots of Mrs Xs credit file showing what 
Mrs X saw in October 2020. I can only make assumptions here as I have no method of discovering 
how or why Ms Bs account appeared on Mrs Xs credit file. But in my view, the root cause of the 
problem may have been that Ms Bs address became a Linked Address on Mrs Xs credit file which 
may have resulted in Ms Bs SNC account appearing on Mrs Xs credit file. Or, it may have been the 
other way around, as one of the explanations given for Linked Addresses on that credit file report is 
that one of your old providers has just shared this address with us  this address being reference to 
Ms Bs address. But as Ive been told that Mrs X never has been a customer of SNC and never had 
an account with it then that seems unlikely.
The reality is that on current evidence I do not know how the reporting of Ms Bs SNC credit facility 
account came to be reported on Mrs Xs credit file. So, what I have done is assess what I have 
received from SNC, Ms B and the information Mrs X has shared with Ms B which she has sent to us.
Having reviewed all Ive seen from SNC, Ms B and some details from Mrs X as well, I describe the 
FRL as a curious mix. In that FRL SNC says that it is not sure what has happened, and yet has 
accepted that the SNC account has mistakenly appeared on Mrs Xs credit file, but it still did not seem 
to accept responsibility for that error.
It says in its FRL which followed its own investigation:
we were unable to find any evidence to corroborate these claims. .this is not to say that 
we are refuting the claims made. Unfortunately, due to a limited amount of data we have 
available to us when looking at credit file entries, we are unable to definitively conclude that 
there may have been some failings on our part.
And this may be the best that Ms B receives by way of an explanation as poor as that may
be.
However, applying logical sense, one of my provisional findings is that using the evidence I have 
there has been an error in the administration of the account. Ms B and Mrs X have addresses that are 
totally different, they have different surnames and one was a customer and one was not. And the only 
similarities are that they lived in or near the same town and their post-codes were the same save for 
the last two letters. One was TR at the end of the post code and the other was WB. I do not see that 
as a reason to get a customer and a non-customer totally mixed up.
So, I do think that SNC has done something wrong. And one representative from the SNC complaints 
department called Ms B and agreed that hed be upset if that had happened to him  that was around 
February 2021.
The resolution SNC offered was to try to put things right. On one level it has succeeded. By removing 
all reference of the account from both credit files then it has fixed that part for Mrs X. I have the 
advantage of having seen an extract of a copy of Mrs Xs personal credit file dated May 2021 and it 
does look as if there are no records relating to SNC on that credit file.
And this SNC action has cleaned up Ms Bs credit file. But the total removal has left additional issues 
in its wake. Namely, that Ms B had no records of whether SNC had correctly or wrongly placed any default or late payment markers against her name. And could not see anything from October 2020 
which had been reported to her own credit file.
On the removal of the account completely this seems to have been raised as a solution in one of the 
telephone calls between Ms B and SNC. These are brief notes of what I heard on one of the recorded 
calls:
-SNC offered to remove all the entries from both credit files as if it was never there
-even though Ms B has used the product, they dont know what has happened so will remove 
all the facility from the credit file
-balance was adjusted to £0 on 15 February 2021 and entries to be deleted
After the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, SNC sent to us its submission 
in April 2021 which included this:
As we could not see that any details we held for Ms B were incorrect and could have led to 
her account being reported on another credit file we do not believe we are responsible for the 
error. However due to the distress it was causing we offered to write off the remaining 
balance for Ms B and stop reporting the account to credit agencies which would remove it 
from [Mrs Xs] file. As we cannot see we have made any fault this offer is generous.
We have already written off the balance and submitted a request for all entries relating to the 
account to be removed from credit files.
And SNC has said:
issued resolution was a write off of the full balance, this has already been done as 
internally we do not require customer authority to perform write offs on owed funds.
This goes some way to explain why SNC did not appear to wait for Ms B to agree to this as a 
resolution  SNC says it did not have. The issue I am considering is the removal of it from Ms Bs 
credit file as well.
Here  SNC have the details of the systems and internal working used when reporting to credit files  
as if SNC did need to remove it completely from Ms Bs in order to correct the error in relation to 
Mrs Xs credit file entries then it had its reasons for doing that.
But that left Ms B without the proper answers and it also caused issues about the late payment 
markers  this is dealt with in a different part of my provisional decision.
The final response letter dated 18 December 2020
In relation to the FRL, I do think its very odd complaint handling and poor customer service to have 
issued the FRL to the non-customer, Mrs X, in which not only does it cite Ms Bs name in full, but also 
offers a resolution aimed at Ms B and not the FRL recipient Mrs X.
I appreciate that in October 2020, Ms B did give her permission for Mrs X to be able to speak to SNC. 
And that may have been the reason the FRL was sent to Mrs X but in my view that is not the 
justification. Ms B was the customer. I understand that Ms B may have received a copy of the FRL in 
December 2020, and in January 2021 Ms B was still calling SNC to ask for her copy addressed to her 
so that it could be utilised when referring her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
This seems inappropriate, and incorrect that Ms B would have to do this. And I have seen on account 
notes in February 2021 that an SNC representative did apologise for that and indicated some 
compensation was due.
Added to which, the significance of that wording of the FRL  that the resolution was being offered in 
full and final settlement  was that Mrs X was being asked to agree to a resolution for Ms B which 
seems wholly wrong.Information I have gathered reviewing all the documents and listening to the recorded calls sent to us 
are:
othe FRL was first issued to Mrs X on 18 December 2020 and not Ms B. The FRL was later 
issued to Ms B, the SNC customer, on 3 February 2021 and my understanding on current 
evidence is that Ms B received a copy of that FRL albeit addressed to Mrs X in or around 
December 2020.
oMs B gave the TP authority meaning Mrs X could speak to SNC about the account and the 
mix-up, but SNC has put her down as the main person which means Mrs X has received 
correspondence.
oand in one telephone call an SNC representative has said that he was happy to bring this up 
with his manager as it shouldnt have happened - both should have received the FRL.
After the complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman this was SNCs explanation to us 
in April 2021 about the FRL:
The final response letter was addressed to [Mrs X] as she was the person who was affected 
by having the account appear on her credit file but a copy was sent to both her and Ms B in 
December 2020.
I can understand the frustration experienced by Ms B. Except for the coincidence that Mrs X 
happened to be an acquaintance of Ms B, then its possible that Ms B may not have received much in 
the way of information about her own complaint relating to her own account. So, I do not consider this 
to have been correct. I deal with redress and compensation at the end of my provisional decision.
Ms Bs SNC account  what has happened to it since Oct 2020?
Ms Bs complaint originally did not include the issues surrounding late payment markers, the 
possibility of a default being registered and the account closure. Ms B brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in January 2021 and the issues leading to and possibly precipitating 
the account closing were in the lead up to March 2021. SNC has said
Reviewing this further, only late payments were added to [Mrs Xs] credit file as prior to the 
account having the write off, payments ceased and this resulted in arrears accrual. We note 
that these have since been removed completely and all history alongside this deleted. Our 
records show we have never reported on [Ms B] as the whole complaint was about us not 
doing so and reporting on another person. We also note that no default accrued on the above 
or was issued.
So we wrote to SNC to ask if it would be content for this part to be included in this complaint and it 
has agreed but has also said that it considers more than sufficient compensation was offered 
overall with the balance write off, which has been noted as such by the adjudicator opinion and we 
would not consider any further compensation justifiable.
SNC has provided for us the history of the credit reporting for Ms Bs account which shows no defaults 
were entered. There is a note to say the credit file was deleted 29 March 2021. I have duplicated that 
table here.
In the Current Status column, S refers to settled  and 1 to 6 refers to the status of the arrears.
Period Current Status Current 
BalanceCurrent Credit 
LimitPreviously 
Defaulted
202102 S 0 300 0
202101 3 790 300 0
202012 2 790 300 0202011 1 790 300 0
202010 0 790 300 0
202009 0 797 300 0
202008 0 876 690 0
202007 0 910 690 0
202006 0 858 690 0
202005 0 821 690 0
202004 0 884 690 0
202003 0 802 690 0
202002 0 0 690 0
202001 0 779 690 0
201912 0 636 600 0
201911 0 0 600 0
201910 0 722 600 0
201909 0 567 480 0
201908 0 0 480 0
201907 0 0 430 0
I asked Ms B to send me details of her payments in 2020 and she sent me an explanation as to what 
occurred in August 2020 and copy bank statements which show as follows:
- Ms B informed SNC in August 2020 that she was on maternity leave and so Ms B says that 
a minimum payment arrangement was agreed
- Ms B made payments 2 June 2020 £221.35; 3 July 2020 £31; 4 August 2020 £45;
4 September 2020 £45; 19 September 2020 £34.44; 2 October 2020 £7.
As Ms B has provided information about the payments made to the account, then I can see that she 
ceased paying in October 2020 and so it does appear that arrears were being registered with the 
credit reference agencies. But, as we know from the earlier part of this complaint, that was around the 
time that the credit reporting was being fed to Mrs Xs credit file and not Ms Bs  around 
October 2020. And so, she would never have seen this.
And SNC has said this as well  only late payments were added to [Mrs Xs] credit file as prior to the 
account having the write off, payments ceased and this resulted in arrears accrual.
As Ms B has said she was under the impression from October 2020 that while the complaint about the 
credit reporting issue was being resolved that her account was going to be suspended, then 
I understand that she would not have been expecting any adverse account situation to have been 
developing. And this also explains why Mrs X was so upset with Ms B about having the account on 
her credit file as it was showing as being in arrears.
I asked Ms B what correspondence or notice she had been given or sent about any arrears. She has 
told me that she had received nothing.
I have listened to the recorded calls between Ms B and SNC and on one call Ms B was informed that 
she was £39 in arrears in November 2020 and this was due to be paid by 2 December 2020. Ms B did 
not pay it. And I think that her reason may have been that she was informed that while the complaint 
was ongoing then the account would be suspended. Ive not seen any confirmation of that from SNC.
SNC wrote to Ms B by email 19 March 2021:
Your account was reassessed. Due to the total time in arrears, this was closed. The 
justification for this is contained within the credit agreement'And the note I can see on the information about SNCs credit reporting history for this account shows 
the credit file records were deleted 29 March 2021  after it had officially closed.
And yet I have seen evidence that SNC informed Ms B of this  Balance was adjusted to £0 on 
15 February 2021 and entries to be deleted
On the closure issue, Ms B says:
The current state of the account as mentioned is closed as far as I am aware without my 
consent and I have no access to it. I cannot see it on my credit file as mentioned.
And as SNC has closed her account she was not able to access that on-line either and so Ms B was 
not able to find out the history of any late payment markers and/or default from that route.  
Added to which, Ms B says she did not want the SNC account to be closed and certainly not
for the reasons she was told it was closed  arrears.
I have asked for, and received, a copy of the terms and conditions applicable to Ms Bs account and 
clause 10 says:
10. TERMINATION
10.1 We may terminate this Agreement by providing you with two months written notice
10.2 Where you have defaulted under this Agreement and after we have served you with a default 
notice we may also terminate this Agreement with immediate effect. The consequences of such a 
termination are:
10.2.1 All amounts owed by you under this Agreement, including interest payments and the 
outstanding balance on your SafetyNet facility, will become payable in full;
10.2.2 You will no longer be able to draw down from your SafetyNet facility.
I have seen no evidence of a default being applied to the account and SNC seems to have confirmed 
this: We also note that no default accrued on the above or was issued.
As Ms Bs arrears appear to have been recorded for a relatively short time, and Ms B had received 
no notice about them and had no way of finding more about those arrears, then I think that even if a 
default had been applied then Id consider that unnecessarily early.
As, on current evidence, I do not think that a default was applied to the account then I do not think 
that clause 10.2 could properly have been used by SNC to close the account.
And clause 10.1 requires Ms B to have been given notice of two months. On current evidence I have 
no indication that was given. The 19 March 2021 email  a copy of which I have seen  says it had 
been closed which gives the impression that was immediate. So, currently I think that SNC was wrong 
in the way it closed Ms Bs account.On current evidence, my findings in relation to these issues are as follows:
-to try to resolve the credit file issue, SNC reduced her balance to £0 on 15 February 2021 and
-it wrote on 19 March 2021 to say her account had arrears and was closed
-the credit file reporting I have received from SNC (table duplicated above) shows that the 
account was considered settled in February 2021 and so there were no arrears in 
March 2021
-the credit file deletion took place after the apparent account closure
-Ms B was under the impression  whether justified or not  that the account was going to be 
suspended while the credit file complaint was being resolved
-Ms B has not have received formal notification of the arrears although I have heard that in 
one call Ms B was informed she needed to pay £39 by 2 December 2020
-Ms B, from October 2020, would not have seen any negative payment information on
her credit file at all as that was the whole issue  it had been reported to Mrs Xs credit file
-the reason for, and the associated method in which SNC closed her account, does not seem 
to be in line with the terms and conditions
I have seen that SNC has said that it thinks the £790 outstanding balance write off was enough 
compensation but I do not think that addresses the issue of the account closure.
And I accept that it is rather harsh that Ms B received the email dated 19 March 2021 to say that 
because of the arrears the account had closed especially when the credit file information Ive seen 
shows the account as Settled in February 2021  the month before. And due to that it may be difficult 
for Ms B to be successful in applying to SNC for a new SNC account.
Ms B has made it clear to me that she never wanted that account closed. And it does appear to be an 
unintended consequence of the original complaint  that relating to the appearance of Ms Bs account 
details on Mrs Xs credit file.
So, having thought about this I think that SNC should look to provide a new SNC account for Ms B. 
But I stress that this must be subject to the usual responsible lending criteria afforded to any customer 
especially as the closure was over a year ago and Ms Bs current financial circumstances are 
unknown to me.
And I think Ms B needs to be aware that this assessment may not necessarily result in a fresh 
account being opened.
In summary - Ms Bs preferred resolution outcomes and my planned resolutions.
Ms B wants SNC to accept responsibility and an apology. I cant direct SNC to do this. I can give my 
view and come to a decision on what Ive seen.
Ms B was concerned that she gave no permission for it to write off £790  SNC has said we do not 
require customer authority to perform write offs on owed funds. I think thats likely right and so I do 
not plan to take this point further.
Ms B has said that she wants additional recompense for the humiliation and embarrassment. On this 
I do not think thats necessary here. I agree with our adjudicator that the £790 write- off is enough to 
cover that as the distress and inconvenience SNC was aiming to rectify was due to the credit file issue 
even though it did not accept it was responsible.Ms B has expressed concern about the complaint handling and I agree that it has been oddly handled 
and so I am planning to award a further £100 for that as additional compensation for the 
inconvenience.
Ms B wishes to have her credit facility account reinstated. I do not know whether the original can be 
reinstated. But I think that providing Ms B with an account is something SNC should consider subject 
to a correct affordability assessment carried out by SNC first.
Ms B has also said that she had no confidence in SNCs ability to safeguard her personal details 
going forward. I cannot assist with that. If Ms B takes her issue to the Information Commissioner (IC), 
then the IC may be able to provide Ms B with assurances about SNCs ability to safeguard her data 
going forward. Its a matter for Ms B to decide on this.
Putting things right
I am planning to direct that SNC
- pays a further £100 to Ms B for the poor complaint handling she has experienced from SNC 
in relation to the FRL; and
- assess Ms B for the credit facility account.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
Both parties have responded and these points are dealt with in the next section. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How did the parties respond to the provisional decision? 
Ms B has said that she is not entirely content but is keen to draw this to a close and so 
accepts what I have said. Except that Ms B has said she does not wish to have a new 
account with SNC now or ever again.  
Ms B added: I accept the offer of clearing my debt with Safety Net Credit, removing all 
traces of the account from my credit file and the £100 for the way my complaint has been 
handled.
SNC has said it accepts the proposal to pay £100 to Ms B and it is keen to resolve this too.
But it has added that it will not be re-opening the old account, and if Ms B wants access to 
credit with SNC she needs to reapply for a new account. 
Having reviewed the whole complaint again then my provisional findings are repeated here 
and as both parties have accepted all of it (apart from the re-instatement of the account or 
creation of a new account) then I see no reason to depart from those earlier findings. They 
are repeated here. 
Putting things right
The redress alters a little. I direct that SNC ensures all references to SNC are removed from 
Ms Bs credit file and that she has no money to pay to SNC. I understand that these 
elements have been done already. And I direct that SNC pays £100 to Ms B as distress and 
inconvenience for the poor complaint handling. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and I direct that Indigo Michael 
Limited, trading as Safety Net (SNC) does as I have outlined above unless its already been 
carried out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman