DRN-3983174
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cleveland Wealth Management Ltd (CWM) gave him unsuitable advice 
to switch three personal pensions into one drawdown plan and invest in a managed fund. He 
said they failed to protect his funds against market risks. 
What happened
CWM first met with Mr M in August 2020 to discuss his retirement planning. Mr M gave them 
permission to gather information about his three existing pensions, one of which was held 
with Scottish Widows (SW). 
In September 2020 CWM conducted a fact-find with Mr M. Amongst details about his assets 
and earnings, it also recorded;
His objectives were to reduce his working hours. To do this he could take the 
maximum tax-free cash element of his pensions.
He didnt need a regular income at that time but wanted to have a pension fund 
readily accessible for the future.
His attitude towards investment risk was described as lowest medium.
In 2020 Mr M was advised by CWM to switch his three pensions into one plan with SW and 
invest his funds in the Scottish Widows Pension Portfolio 4 Model. They said they made this 
recommendation as it would allow Mr M access to his funds in a flexible way whilst the funds 
remained invested. 
CWM charged Mr M an initial fee of around £2,000 which represented 1% of the total 
transfer values. They also charged 0.25% per year for on-going advice. 
Mr M followed CWMs recommendations and consolidated his pensions to Scottish Widows 
into a flexi-access drawdown plan. 
In May 2022 Mr M complained to CWM about the advice hed received. In summary he said;
CWM failed to take into account his very low attitude to risk and hadnt explored 
other options for his pension. And they failed to properly explain the risks involved in 
his plan.
CWM had given SW the wrong address, so he didnt get the initial paperwork from 
them and then they failed to also update his address later when he moved.
He contacted CWM in early 2022 to raise his concerns that the war in Ukraine may 
impact his savings. But CWM assured him he had nothing to worry about and failed 
to give him suitable advice to protect his funds. 
CWM failed to keep him updated on the performance of his plan. And it was only 
when he asked in May 2022 did CWM tell him his pension had dropped in value by 
around £20,000. 
SW informed him that he could put his funds in a cash account which would protect 
him against market risk. But CWM had failed to make him aware of that option when 
he contacted them in early 2022.
CWM set his retirement date as 75 when hed planned to retire much earlier. 
CWMs action, or lack of, had affected his health. And they failed to inform him of 
their complaints procedure.
CWM didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary they said theyd advised Mr M to invest in 
a suitable product and in a fund that matched his attitude to investment risk. They said 
everything had clearly been explained to Mr M during the fact-finding and risk assessing 
exercises. And it was also clearly explained in the suitability report. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to our Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold Mr Ms complaint as he felt CWM had moved Mr M into a plan which was more cost 
effective and appeared to meet his attitude to investment risk at the time, so he didnt think it 
was unsuitable. He also didnt think CWMs later actions had caused Mr M any losses, he 
said the retirement age and Mr Ms address were recorded on the paperwork that he signed 
as being accurate, and that CWM had reviewed Mr Ms policy at the agreed annual review. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator and so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M has very strong feelings about his complaint, having provided detailed 
submissions in writing in support of his complaint points, which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. In line with this services 
role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable here.
Was the advice to consolidate Mr Ms pensions into a flexi-access drawdown plan suitable?
I think it was. Ill explain why.
Mr M had three existing pensions; a SW section 32 plan which had a value of around 
£120,000 and an annual management charge of 1%; a stakeholder scheme with a value of 
around £38,000 and an annual management charge of 0.85%; and a personal pension 
valued at around £40,000 with an annual management charge of 0.5%.
The recommended plan was cheaper than all of Mr Ms previous plans with an annual 
management charge of 0.3% plus a fund charge of 0.1%. Even including CWMs on-going 
advice fees of 0.25% still meant that overall Mr Ms new plan would be cheaper.
None of the existing plans had any guarantees or benefits that would have been lost through 
the switch. And while Mr M noted that the retirement age was recorded as 75 on his new 
plan, there was no penalty to accessing his benefits at any age over 55. So, there was no 
financial detriment to Mr M by having his recorded retirement age as 75.  Mr Ms objective was to access a small amount of his funds in the event he reduced his 
working week. I cant see that he had a need for a fixed regular income. A single flexi-access 
drawdown arrangement was likely to be easier for Mr M to manage than three separate 
plans. And it seemed to meet his objectives. So, Im satisfied the recommendation was 
suitable and met Mr Ms objectives.
Did CWM recommend an investment that was in line with Mr Ms attitude to risk?
Mr M says hes not a risk taker and has always been keen to have security in his funds, 
especially approaching retirement. 
CWM completed a risk assessment with Mr M at the time of the advice. The risk assessment 
looked at Mr Ms previous investment experience and he answered questions to gauge his 
attitude to investment risk. 
Following the assessment CWM produced a risk profile report which included a declaration 
signed by Mr M in October 2020 that hed read and understood the report.
The report explained that Mr Ms answers to the assessment had graded him as a four out of 
ten - Lowest Medium risk investor.
Theres no evidence from the time of the switch that Mr M was uncomfortable with the risk 
grading CWM had identified. And around half of the total value of Mr Ms funds were already 
invested in the Scottish Widow Pension Portfolio 4 in his section 32 plan. 
Mr M explains that no other options for his funds, for example bonds, were explored or 
explained to him. I appreciate Mr M feels CWM should have suggested a range of products 
for him to choose from, but it isnt unusual for a firm to just recommend the one product that 
they feel is most suitable. Mr M was paying CWM for their professional advice, and they had 
an obligation to make a clear recommendation of what they thought was most suited to his 
objectives and circumstances.
It was reasonable for CWM to rely on the risk profile report to inform their investment 
recommendation. And the investment into the Pension Portfolio 4 matched Mr Ms recorded 
attitude to risk at the time. So, I think it was a suitable recommendation.
Should CWM have advised Mr M to switch his funds into a cash fund?
I can appreciate Mr Ms disappointment that during the early part of 2022 his funds dropped 
significantly in value, especially as Mr M says hed called CWM to ask if global events were 
likely to affect his funds. And he was given reassurances by them. 
Mr M says CWM should have made him aware of his option to switch his funds to cash 
which would have protected them against market volatility. However, as Ive said, it was 
CWMs role to act as Mr Ms advisers. It isnt for me to now say, with the benefit of hindsight, 
what would have been the best option for Mr M. My role is assessing what CWM did and 
whether that was clearly unsuitable for Mr M. 
Having done so, Im of the opinion it was reasonable for CWM to reassure Mr M that having 
his funds invested during times of instability was still suitable for him. I say that because the 
markets face pressures from time to time for a variety of reasons and/or events which may 
result in short or longer term volatility. The usual advice, for a medium or longer term 
investor, is to remain invested (in line with the investors objectives and attitude to risk and 
financial circumstances generally). And although Mr M was likely to access some of the 
funds within a shorter term, the majority of his funds would remain invested for several years and would likely recover in the long term from any short-term losses.
It seems Mr M decided to move his funds into cash to stop any further volatility caused by 
the markets. And I can appreciate his reasons for doing so. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant say it was unreasonable for CWM to give Mr M reassurances and not 
recommend switching his funds to cash.
Mr M also complains that CWM didnt carry out yearly reviews as theyd agreed. I can see 
Mr Ms pension plan started around December 2020. And CWM say they met with Mr M in 
October 2021 when they reviewed his funds. They say a fact find was completed and signed 
by Mr M in October 2021 which CWM say demonstrates they met with Mr M to conduct the 
review. 
Mr M says that he recalled possibly meeting CWM in October 2021, but he thought it might 
have been in relation to setting up another policy. 
Where evidence is missing or conflicting as it is in this case, I base my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened. 
I wasnt at the meeting Mr M had with CWM in 2021 so I cant say for certain what was 
discussed. And its disappointing CWM have provided no written record of the review. But 
the evidence shows Mr M did meet with CWM in October 2021, around a year after his plan 
was set up. A fact find document was completed which is consistent with CWM reviewing 
Mr Ms circumstances. And it recorded the value of Mr Ms pension at around £215,000 at 
that time which was an increase from its original value the year before. 
I havent seen any evidence from that time that Mr Ms plan wasnt performing as expected. 
So, its not surprising theres no evidence of recommendations of any changes to Mr Ms 
plan. Based on the available evidence and circumstances, I think on balance its likely that 
Mr Ms pension was reviewed and discussed with him when they met in October 2021. 
The issues with performance Mr M complained about then happened in early 2022. And hed 
removed CWM as his advisers before the next review would have been due in late 2022. So, 
I cant agree that the evidence demonstrates CWM didnt complete the annual reviews Mr M 
was entitled to. 
I appreciate Mr M may have wanted CWM to review his plan more regularly, but the client 
agreement signed by Mr M for CWM clearly states that annual reviews would be carried out 
for the 0.25% Mr M was paying in on-going fees. 
Mr Ms addresses
Mr Ms address was incorrectly recorded on SWs records when the plan was initially opened 
and later when Mr M moved address CWM didnt update SW.
Ive reviewed the application form for SWs plan which I think was likely completed by 
CWMs adviser. Mr Ms address was recorded on both the main body or the form and an 
identification verification form. The first of which was unclear whether a 5 or a 6 was 
recorded. CWMs adviser had a duty to work with due care and skill which I think was lacking 
in the application form being clearly completed. However, the address was clearly correctly 
recorded later in the form, so CWMs adviser wasnt entirely to blame for SW holding an 
incorrect address for Mr M.
Ive seen that Mr M text CWMs adviser in November 2020 to say SW had the incorrect 
address which was just after the initial documents were sent. Its unclear how Mr M became aware that his address was incorrect. But I appreciate it was upsetting to learn of the 
mistake.
The information sent to the incorrect address around November 2022 included policy 
documents and rights to cancel the switch. But I think Mr M was happy with the advice 
initially so I dont think, if hed received these letters, he would have done things differently. 
So, while its disappointing that SW sent information to an incorrect address, I dont think that 
led to any financial losses for Mr M.
When Mr M later moved address, he says he updated CWM but he says they failed to 
update SW. Which led to SW sending correspondence to his old address.
I cant see any evidence on file that Mr M asked CWM to update SW or that theyd agreed to 
do so as part of their on-going relationship. So, I wont hold CWM responsible for SW 
holding Mr Ms old address after he moved.  
Other matters
Mr M said that CWM didnt supply him with details of their complaints procedure at an early 
stage and the whole situation has been detrimental to his health.
CWM say once theyd learnt of Mr Ms dissatisfaction, they went to visit him explaining the 
complaints procedure and provided him with a leaflet about our Service.
I wasnt present at the meetings, so I cant say for certain what was or wasnt discussed. But 
I can see when Mr M wrote to CWM to explain his concerns, they acknowledged and later 
responded to them. So, I dont think Mr M was disadvantaged by not being sure of the 
complaints procedure.  
Im sorry to hear Mr Ms health has been affected by his pension. I appreciate that seeing its 
value decline must have been upsetting for him. But my role is to look at the actions of CWM 
and decide if they did something wrong and whether that error caused a loss to Mr M. And 
as Ive explained, I dont think Mr M suffered any losses due to any errors CWM made.  
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman