DRN-4092009
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Lowell Financial Ltd have acted unfairly towards her when making 
adjustments to her account following a refund of interest and charges from the original 
lender. 
What happened
Mrs H had three separate accounts with a third-party lender, which were sold in 2017 and 
2018; Lowell was instructed to manage the debt on behalf of the debt purchaser. 
In 2021, Mrs H negotiated discounted repayment amounts on the balances, which she made 
monthly repayments towards. Lowell said it would close the accounts once the final 
payments had been received. 
Mrs H then submitted a complaint to this service about the original lender. This was upheld, 
and the direction from the complaint was, in summary, that the original lender should refund 
some of the interest and charges that had been applied to the accounts. And because the 
accounts had now been sold, the original lender should liaise with Lowell to put things right. 
Lowell received the funds from the original lender but deducted this from the original balance 
and not the discounted balance. Mrs H says she has lost out as she was expecting a refund 
 because if the adjustment had been made to the discounted balance (and not the original 
balance), then she would have been in credit and due a refund.
Mrs H says she was given misleading information about this during some phone calls she 
had with Lowell. She says she was told the adjustment would be made to the discounted 
balance. And if she had been given the correct information, she would have paid off the 
balances at the discounted rate, closed the accounts and received a refund from the original 
lender. 
Lowell responded to Mrs Hs complaint to say that it hadnt done anything wrong in relation 
to the adjustments made to the balance. It said the discount wouldnt be applied to the 
balance until it had received the final payment. And so, when it received funds from the 
original lender, it deducted this from the original balance. Lowell also explained that it would 
apply a 60% discount to the amount outstanding. However, it did accept that it had provided 
Mrs H with some misleading information in two phone calls and so it offered her £150 to 
apologise for this. 
Mrs H remained unhappy with Lowells response and so she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
An Investigator considered Mrs Hs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They didnt think that 
Lowell had acted unfairly by applying the refund from the original lender to the original 
balance. And they thought the offer of £150 for the misleading phone calls was sufficient. 
Mrs H remained unhappy  essentially, she is still of the opinion that it is unfair of Lowell to 
apply the adjustment to the original balance and not the discounted balance. And shes now 
out of pocket by approximately £1,962 as a result of the misinformation she received during 
the phone calls. 
Because Mrs H didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that this service is independent and impartial. So, we dont take the sides 
of either party. And where something has gone wrong, wed ask the consumer to be put 
back in the position they would have been had it not gone wrong. 
In this case, when Mrs Hs complaint against the original lender was upheld, it was asked to 
refund some interest and charges  and because the debt had been sold on, it was 
instructed to send the refund to the new owner of the debt. Lowell then used the funds to 
adjust the original balance, because this is essentially what the balance would have been 
had the interest and charges not been applied by the original lender. And so, I think its fair 
of Lowell to have made the adjustment to the original balance and not the discounted 
balance. 
I take on board Mrs Hs point that if shed paid off the balances with the discount and closed 
the accounts then she might have received a refund of interest and charges from the original 
lender, and I agree this is possible. However, its also possible that the original lender would 
have liaised with Lowell, and Lowell would have still retained the interest and charges from 
the original lender as a way of recouping some of its losses from the discount it gave Mrs H 
 so even if she had paid off the balances at the discounted rate, she still may not have got a 
refund as she thought she would. 
In any event, Im not going to ask Lowell to do anything further here, because if Mrs H did 
receive a refund, she would have essentially benefitted twice (by receiving a large discount 
on the balance partly made up of interest and charges, and a refund of interest and 
charges). And for the reasons Ive already explained, the fairest way to adjust the balance 
following the refund from the original lender would be to deduct the refund of interest and 
charges from the original balance, because this is a true reflection of what Mrs H owed, and 
what she would have owed had the interest and charges not been applied.
Lowell has agreed to discount the remaining balance by 60%, which seems fair, given that it 
had previously agreed to a discount prior to the refund.
I have listened to the calls Mrs H had with Lowell about the adjustment. I agree she was 
provided with information in two of the calls which would to have led her believe that the 
refund would be applied to the discounted balance and not the original balance  which in 
turn led her to believe that she would receive a refund of the remaining amount. So, what 
Mrs H has lost out on here is a loss of expectation. I accept that it must have been very 
disappointing for her to find out that she wouldnt receive a refund. But I think the £150 
Lowell has already paid is a fair way to compensate her for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman