DRN-1686480
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) reported 
incorrect information on his credit file while he was making payments under a payment 
arrangement. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr C contacted Amex as he wanted to discuss options to reduce payments. 
Mr C told Amex he wasnt able to maintain the contractual monthly payment. 
Amex agreed to place Mr C on a care plan or payment arrangement that meant he could 
make reduced monthly payments of £272 from September 2018. 
In February 2019 Mr Cs payment was made late. Mr C contacted Amex and made a debit 
card payment on 25 February 2019. Amex agreed to reinstate the care plan. But Amex also 
reported arrears on Mr Cs credit file from February and March 2019. In April 2019 Mr C 
contacted Amex and raised the arrears it was reporting and it took steps for the adverse 
entries to be removed. 
In October 2019 Mr C spoke with Amex to check the details of his plan. Mr C said he thought 
the plan was due to end in August 2019 but he was still making the same payment. Amex 
explained that once the care plan ends Mr C would have to revert to his contractual monthly 
payment which was around £800. Mr C agreed to continue making payments under the 
existing payment plan. 
On 8 November 2019 Mr C complained to Amex after he found his credit score had gone 
down again. Mr C said Amex had reported arrears and it later agreed to remove them from 
his credit file. Amex issued its final response on 3 December 2019 and explained that Mr Cs 
account was in the process of being reactivated and that, for the time being, he should 
continue to make the £272 payment. Amex paid Mr C £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr C said 
that the arrears information reported by Amex on his credit file meant he couldnt remortgage 
to consolidate other debts. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint and said Amex 
had acted fairly by agreeing to remove the arrears information reported. Mr C asked to 
appeal. He said his payments had been made on time during the care plan and that any 
delay in them being received was caused when the payment date fell over a weekend. Mr C 
also said Amex had again reported information that had impacted his credit file. The 
investigator said that any new information reported by Amex would need to be dealt with as 
a separate complaint and that Amex had deleted the arrears information it reported. Mr C 
asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr C has explained his payments under the care plan were made on time so the arrears 
shouldnt have been reported. I can see Mr C made regular payments and that, in the main, 
they were received by the 23rd each month. But the contact notes for February 2019 show 
Mr C made a payment a little later than normal and indicate the method of payment that 
month was debit card. 
Mr Cs next payment was received by Amex on 25 March 2019 as 23 March 2019 was a 
Saturday. From what Ive seen it was the delay in receiving these payments that initially 
caused the care plan to end early. I understand Mr Cs March 2019 payment was made 
automatically, along with the majority of the payments Mr C made. In response to our 
investigator, Mr C said the payment was made automatically and it wasn't his fault that it 
hadn't been applied to his credit card on 23 March 2019. I agree with Mr C and I note that 
Amex's final response also accepts that the automatic payments he made shouldn't have led 
to arrears information being registered with the credit reference agencies. 
After Mr C raised the missed payments, Amex took the step of removing them from his credit 
file. Ive looked at the contact notes and I can see how frustrated Mr C has been over time. I 
agree that the explanations he received could have been clearer. But, overall, I think Amex 
acted fairly by agreeing to remove the arrears from Mr Cs credit file. Ultimately, that meant 
he wasnt unfairly impacted by the arrears information in the long term. 
I can see that what was meant to be a 12 month plan ran for substantially longer. Mr C says 
he spoke to Amex in October 2019 to check when the plan was due to end. Mr C asked for a 
few more months which is what Amex agreed to do. I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. Whilst I do agree that Amex made some errors and should have provided 
clearer information to Mr C about the care plan, overall I havent found he was treated 
unfairly. 
Mr C says that Amexs errors meant he couldnt remortgage. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but 
I havent seen anything that indicates a mortgage application was declined primarily on the 
basis of the arrears information Amex recorded on his credit file. And, I have to take into 
account that Amex was reporting an active payment arrangement on his credit file from 
August 2018 onwards. Information of that nature may also impact the success of mortgage 
applications. 
In February 2020, while our investigator was looking into Mr Cs complaint, he told us Amex 
had reported another missed payment on his credit file and sent some screen shots showing 
how this had impacted his score. The investigator explained that we couldnt consider the 
new issue as part of this complaint because Amex hadnt been asked to investigate first. 
I understand this may feel unfair and illogical to Mr C. But our rules say we cant investigate 
a complaint unless a business has had the chance to resolve it first. More specifically, I can 
see that Mr Cs care plan was due to end, or graduate, in February 2020 which would have 
led to his payment reverting to the contractual amount. As the investigator said, we couldnt 
include this as part of this investigation. But if Mr C has concerns about the way Amex ended 
the care plan and the impact that had on his credit file he can complain and ultimately refer 
his concerns to us. 
I agree that there were times when the information Amex gave Mr C could have been clearer 
and that the service he received should have been better. But Amex did remove the arrears 
information it reported from Mr Cs credit file and it has also paid him £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Whilst I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mr C, Im satisfied Amex 
dealt with his complaint fairly. So Im not telling it to take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman