DRN-3155882
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC overcharged him interest when the term of his
mortgage ended.
What happened
Mr S had an interest only mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage term ended in 
October 2017. Two months before that, Mr S applied to refinance the mortgage. He 
said he could repay the mortgage with savings if that wasnt possible.
Mr S said that it took Barclays until March 2019 to decline the application. During that 
period he says he offered to pay the capital balance back five times, but was assured that 
approval was imminent. Mr S said that he could have avoided paying interest of almost
£80,000 had Barclays dealt with the application fairly.
Mr S highlighted a number of problems with the service he received:
There were many breakdowns in communication between Barclays various 
departments and others. That contributed to the delays.
His original application wasnt able to be accessed when the original member of staff 
he was dealing with left the bank.
He wasnt told when the members of staff left the bank. As a result, numerous 
emails and phone calls went unanswered. This added to the delays.
Barclays internal process changed twice during the application. That meant he had 
to re-send documents supporting the application seven times. This caused delays 
and added to his inconvenience and expense.
Barclays didnt pass on his complaint correctly, that led to delays in the complaint 
being dealt with.
Mr S said that he didnt question Barclays decision to decline the remortgage. It was rather 
that it took Barclays an excessive amount of time to make a decision and the amount of 
interest that meant he had to pay. He also said the process had caused him inconvenience, 
trouble and anxiety.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint, which Mr S accepted but Barclays 
did not. Following additional information I issued a second provisional decision, also 
upholding the complaint, subject to any further submissions, but adjusting the redress. My 
provisional findings form part of this decision. They were:
It is very unusual for a business to provide as much new evidence at such a late stage in 
the complaints process as Barclays has here. Looking again at our file, it appears that 
Barclays only obtained some relevant evidence once I issued my provisional decision. If it 
had gathered all this information at the outset, it should have provided it then. Barclays 
was meant to investigate the complaint fully when Mr S first complained. Its failure to do so 
has caused Mr S more inconvenience than it otherwise would have.
Under our rules I can give directions as to the way in which evidence is presented. When I 
allowed Barclays more time to provide evidence, I noted that Mr S had presented his case 
in a clear, accessible and logical way and that I would expect Barclays to do the same. It is 
disappointing then, that despite being given more time, I have found Barclays submission 
more difficult than Mr Ss to navigate. There were emails missing from its submission. And 
it said that its submission was largely based on Mr Ss file, when it should have been 
based on its own investigation. Relevant emails and phone calls might have come to light 
had it carried out a proper investigation.
I am also disappointed that Barclays has failed to objectively review the evidence. It has 
focused on isolated statements from Mr S and events that support its position, rather than 
looking at all of the evidence and taking into account its regulatory responsibilities.
This has all made investigating this complaint a more difficult and lengthy process than it 
should have been  and was completely avoidable. This will have added to Mr Ss distress 
and inconvenience and I have made an award to reflect that.
We often see cases where a borrower reaches the end of an interest only mortgage and 
doesnt want to repay the mortgage either because they cant pay the full balance or dont 
want to. Mr S didnt want to repay the balance at that time, so he asked Barclays if it would 
extend the term for a few years. That should have been a relatively straightforward matter 
for Barclays to deal with.
When Mr S originally took out the mortgage, he agreed to repay the balance in full by 
October 2017. That was the agreement he entered into with Barclays.
Barclays position is that it made it clear from the start that it couldnt help Mr S as the
mortgage was unaffordable. Despite that Mr S persisted in trying to extend his mortgage.
Every time Barclays came to a decision Mr S would provide new information that would 
prolong things. Mr S had ample opportunity to repay the mortgage if that is what he 
wanted to do. But he made it clear that he didnt want to do that.
Mr Ss position is that he made it clear that he would and could repay the mortgage if 
Barclays wasnt able to help him. But Barclays led him to believe that it would be able to 
provide a new mortgage and that a decision was imminent.
Looking at the evidence we have, I dont agree that Barclays made it clear that it wouldnt 
be able to help Mr S. It considered his proposals between October and December 2017. I 
agree on 14 December 2017 it said that a mortgage wouldnt be affordable (although the 
evidence we have suggests Mr S didnt see that email). But it then later suggested it would 
be possible. And if it wasnt, its not clear why Barclays it considered a new application 
from April 2018.
As far as I can see a clear decision wasnt made by Barclays until 1 March 2019. It had an 
obligation to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. If it was 
satisfied that it couldnt help Mr S then it should have told him so in a clear and 
unambiguous way. Mr S was clear that he would repay the mortgage if he couldnt 
refinance. I should add that it is entirely Barclays decision whether to continue lending to 
Mr S. Im satisfied that it reached that decision fairly.
It took Barclays from August 2017 until March 2019 to make a decision. That is a long time 
for a lender to make such a decision. Barclays initially said it would take six to eight weeks 
to consider an application. But on reviewing the file I can see that the application wasnt 
straightforward. So I have to take that into account. If Barclays had acted fairly its likely that it would have taken a few months to be able to assess the application. Bearing in mind 
the practicalities and nature of the application, it might have been reasonable for Barclays 
to take up to six months to consider such an application.
Barclays hasnt given me persuasive reasons why it took as long as it did to reach a 
decision. There is clear evidence of delays. I accept that Mr S could have mitigated his 
loss by repaying his mortgage. But as I said in my first provisional decision, I think it was 
reasonable for him to believe that refinancing was a possibility until March 2019. I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest that he should have repaid the mortgage when he 
reasonably understood that he was in the process of applying for a new mortgage.
I am satisfied if Mr S had been given a clear answer about whether Barclays would 
refinance his mortgage he would have repaid his mortgage sooner than he did. He said 
that on a number of occasions  and it is what he eventually did. It follows that the reason 
he delayed doing so was because of the way that Barclays handled the application. In the 
individual circumstances of this case, bearing in mind that Mr S had the full amount of the 
mortgage on deposit with Barclays throughout the period in question, I think it would be fair 
for Barclays to refund the difference in interest that Mr S paid because of the delay in 
reaching a decision.
In saying that, Ive found that if Barclays had acted fairly it would still have taken up to six 
months to consider the application. That would take it up to January 2018 (from August 
2017). There was also the delay between 5 June and 2 October 2018. I consider that Mr S 
might be responsible for some of that delay  but there is also evidence that Barclays 
didnt reply to at least one email from Mr S. And I understand that we might not have all of 
the relevant evidence as some communication was via Barclays secured message 
system. I still consider it would be fair for Barclays to refund half of the interest for this 
period.
Im not telling Barclays to refund the interest after March 2019 as it was Mr Ss decision not
to repay the mortgage straight away.
Mr S had the sum to repay the mortgage in an account with Barclays. That would have 
earned interest during the period in question. Barclays can deduct that interest from the 
refund.
That leaves compensation for Mr Ss distress and inconvenience. He was dealing with a 
mortgage application and the uncertainty surrounding it for around 18 months longer than 
he should have. While there would always be a degree of inconvenience and stress 
surrounding a mortgage application, the length of time it took, the delays, the repeated 
examples of poor service will all have caused Mr S avoidable distress and inconvenience.
He has told us that the process caused him anxiety. Further, Barclays investigation of this 
matter has been poor as set out above. I think that has added to Mr Ss distress and 
inconvenience. pay Mr S £850 for any distress and inconvenience.
I proposed that Barclays should:
Calculate the total amount of interest that Mr S paid on his mortgage from 17 
January 2018 (six months from when Mr S first asked about refinancing) until 1 
March 2019.
Calculate the total amount of interest that Mr S received on his Barclays reserve 
account over the same period.Pay Mr S the difference between the above two amounts  less two 
months mortgage interest.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from the date the mortgage 
was repaid to date of settlement. 
Pay Mr S £850 for any distress and inconvenience.
Both Barclays and Mr S accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my second provisional decision, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached above. That is there were delays by Barclays in processing Mr 
Ss application and that Mr S would have repaid his mortgage sooner but for those delays. 
In the individual circumstances of this case, bearing in mind that Mr S had the full amount 
of the mortgage on deposit with Barclays throughout the period in question, I think it would 
be fair for Barclays to refund the difference in interest that Mr S paid because of the delay 
in reaching a decision.
Barclays should also pay Mr S £850 for any distress and inconvenience for the reasons set 
out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Calculate the total amount of interest that Mr S paid on his mortgage from 17 January 
2018 (six months from when Mr S first asked about refinancing) until 1 March 2019.
Calculate the total amount of interest that Mr S received on his Barclays reserve account 
over the same period.
Pay Mr S the difference between the above two amounts  less two months mortgage 
interest.
Pay interest on the above amount at 8% simple per year from the date the mortgage was 
repaid to date of settlement. If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Provide a breakdown of the above calculation to Mr S.
Pay Mr S £850 for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman