DRN-4147135
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) will not refund 
the money he lost as the result of a scam. 
Mr G has used a representative to bring his complaint to this service. For ease, I will refer 
solely to Mr G throughout this decision. 
What happened
All parties are familiar with the details of the scam, so I will provide only a summary here. Mr 
G saw an advert on a social media platform for crypto trading from a company I call B.
Mr G was persuaded to make the following payments to a crypto exchange via debit card. 
The funds were converted to crypto and were then sent on to scammers.
Transaction 
Number Date Amount Merchant / Payee
1 10 March 2022 £500 Binance
2 10 March 2022 £500 Binance
3 14 March 2022 £500 Binance
4 15 March 2022 £500 Binance
5 18 March 2022 £500 Binance
6 25 March 2022 £500 Binance
7 28 March 2022 £500 Binance
8 28 March 2022 £1,500 Binance
9 30 March 2022 £400 Binance
10 31 March 2022 £2,000 Binance
11 6 April 2022 £2,000 Binance
12 8 April 2022 £5,000 Binance
13 8 April 2022 £5,000 Binance
14 9 April 2022 £2,000 Binance
15 11 April 2022 £1,000 Binance
16 29 April 2022 £5,000 Binance
17 31 August 2022 £500 Binance
18 5 September 2022 £1,000 Binance
19 8 September 2022 £4,000 Binance
Mr G asked to withdraw part of his investment returns. He was told that he would need to 
pay a fee for taxes. After some back and forth, Mr G realised that he had been scammed.
Our investigator upheld this complaint because he said that payment 12 should have been 
considered out of character for Mr Gs account and Chase should have intervened at this 
point. He felt that had an intervention occurred at that point, then the scam would likely have 
been stopped and therefore Chase should refund Mr G the money he lost from transaction 
12 onwards. However, the investigator did think that Mr G was partially responsible for his 
own loss, so he recommended a 50% reduction in the refund he was due.
Chase agreed but Mr G did not. So the complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr G made and authorised the payments. Mr G knew who he was 
paying, and the reason why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed he 
was making payments to invest in cryptocurrency. I dont dispute Mr G was scammed and 
he wasnt making payments for the reason he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the 
transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Chase has an obligation to follow Mr Gs instructions. So, in the first 
instance Mr G is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code does not apply in this case as Chase 
are not part of this scheme. Nevertheless, I still think that Chase was required to have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
I think Chase should be liable for payments 12 Onwards. Ill explain why.
Payments 1 - 11
There is a balance to be struck. Banks and building societies have obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be 
involved in every transaction. In this instance Mr Gs account was relatively new 
So overall I dont think that Chase needed to intervene during these transactions.
Payment 12
I think Chase ought to have carried out further checks and spoken to Mr G before processing 
this transaction. It was higher than the first payment, and represented, combined with 
payment 11, over 10,000 to a crypto exchange in one day.Chase is aware of the typical patterns of scams like this  that customers often move money 
onto a crypto account in their own name before moving it on again to scammers; and that 
scams like this commonly take place with multiple payments, starting off with smaller sums 
and then increasing in amounts. I think the large increase in the amount that Mr G was 
sending, coupled with the two payments being on the same day should have prompted 
Chase to question what the payment was for.
I also appreciate that Mr Gs loss didnt materialise directly from his Chase account in these 
circumstances. But even though he was transferring funds to a crypto account in his own 
name, I still think that Chase ought to have taken a closer look at payment 12  given the 
significant risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. 
And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. So, by the 
time Mr G started making his investments in April 2022, it is reasonable to say Chase ought 
to have had a good enough understanding of how crypto scams work  including the fact 
that their customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on 
again to the fraudster.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Chase shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and prevent 
this type of fraud at the time Mr G was making these payments. Had it had such 
mechanisms in place, I think this likely wouldve led to it intervening to ask further questions 
about payment 12.
I would expect Chase to have intervened and asked Mr G who the payment was for, what it 
was for, and for the context surrounding the payment. It could, for example, have asked how 
he had been contacted, whether hed parted with personal details in order to open a trading 
account, whether he was being helped by any third parties e.g. a broker, and how he had 
come across the investment in this case via a social media advert.
I have no reason to believe Mr G wouldnt have been open with Chase, and I think he would 
have taken its intervention seriously. So, I think Chase would have quickly learned from its 
conversation with Mr G the basic background to the payment instruction  that he was 
buying cryptocurrency which was sent onto what he thought was a cryptocurrency type 
trading investment which hed decided to pursue after seeing an advert on social media. 
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Mr Gs own 
cryptocurrency account (before being sent onto the scammers), the conversation shouldnt 
have stopped there on the basis that the money appeared to be going to somewhere safe 
and within Mr Gs control. This is because by 2022 Chase was well aware  or ought to have 
been well aware  of how scams like this work  including that the customer often moves 
money onto an account in their own name first, before moving it on again to scammers. 
So, I think Chase would have been concerned by what the conversation would most likely 
have revealed and so warned Mr G, explaining the typical characteristics of scams like this. 
Had it done so, I think Mr G would have listened and recognised he was at risk. I am 
satisfied he would have had second thoughts if Chase had intervened effectively given that a 
warning would be coming from his trusted bank. 
It follows I think Mr G would not have gone ahead with payment 12, nor any subsequent 
payments had Chase intervened at that point.
Ive considered carefully whether Mr G should hold some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence. We have asked Mr G to provide information about B and his interactions with it. Mr G has 
not provided much, but one of the things that he did provide seems to have been a 
prospectus which highlights investing in a crypto coin and this seems to promise between 
300% and 566% annual returns by investing in a crypto coin prior to it being released to the 
public. I dont think that this is a reasonable rate of return - even for the launch of a crypto 
coin, especially in 2022. Overall, given the lack of information that Mr G has provided about 
the scam, combined with him finding the investment on social media, coupled with the 
above, there is not enough for me to say that Mr G acted in a reasonable manner and 
therefore on balance I think that he contributed to his own loss  essentially by not doing 
enough research beforehand to assure himself that it was a genuine investment.
So overall and having considered everything I feel that it would be appropriate to reduce the 
amount of compensation due to Mr G by 50%.
I note Mr Gs representative comments about the findings in a different case. Firstly, I should 
say that all cases are decided on their own merits. Secondly, the payments in question for 
this case are debit card payments rather than transfers. This means they are pull payments, 
not push payments. The terms and conditions that Mr Gs representative have quoted refers 
to a customer sending money, so it is arguable whether this covers pull payments. It also 
caveats that payments wont be refunded if the customer is at fault in some way. So even if it 
did apply to these transactions, we would still likely make a reduction if we thought that Mr G 
was at fault. So overall, whilst I have carefully considered the points raised, I do not think 
that they change the outcome of this complaint.
I have thought about whether Chase could have recovered the funds via a chargeback, but 
in this instance as the funds were sent to a crypto account in his own name and were used 
to buy crypto, I dont think a chargeback would have been successful. This is because Mr G  
essentially got what he paid for. It was only when he transferred the crypto out of his wallet 
to B, did the loss occur. I also dont think that there was any other way to recover the funds.
Putting things right
To put things right, Chase will need to
Refund 50% of transactions 12 onwards; and
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on these transactions from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement, less any appropriate tax
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase 
(Chase) to pay the redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman