DRN-2676577
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt tell him how to pay off the outstanding 
debt on his account when he switched his bank account to another bank. Hes unhappy 
Santander didnt telephone or email him to make him aware the debt was still outstanding on 
his account. Hes also unhappy Santander didnt make him aware that if he didnt pay the 
outstanding amount in full, a late payment marker would be applied on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G applied through the Current Account Switching Service (CASS) to move his current 
account from Santander to another bank. The switch was completed on 25 November 2019. 
On 2 December 2019, Mr G sent £2,989.38 from one of his accounts to his Santander 
account via online banking to pay off the outstanding balance on his overdraft. Santander 
didnt accept this payment.
Mr G is unhappy this payment wasnt used to pay off his outstanding balance. Hes unhappy 
Santander didnt make him aware the payment had been bounced back to the other 
account, and it didnt specify how he could have paid off the debt.
Mr G said he was working away from home and he didnt see the reminders Santander sent 
to him by post until he got home for Christmas in late December 2019. Hes unhappy 
Santander didnt communicate with him about the outstanding debt by telephone or email 
considering they had this information on their records.
Mr G is unhappy Santander couldnt set up a payment plan for him on 13 January 2020, but 
he was advised a payment plan could only be set up for him after the 26 January 2020. On 
5 February 2020, Mr G telephoned Santander and set up a repayment plan to pay £300 a 
month commencing on 1 March 2020. Mr G paid off the debt in full by the end of April 2020.
Mr G is unhappy Santander didnt make him aware that if he didnt pay the outstanding 
balance in full, a late payment marker would be applied on his credit file. He said this 
experience has had an emotional and damaging impact on his life as other financial 
institutions have reduced his credit limits on his other credit facilities. Hed like Santander to 
offer him an apology and to remove all the adverse information recorded on his credit file.
Santander said Mr G was fully aware he had an outstanding overdraft when his account was 
closed. It also said under the terms of the CASS the balance of any outstanding overdraft is 
to be settled before the account is closed. Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong 
until Mr G had contacted it in January 2020. When Mr G contacted it in January it thinks it 
should have made clear that although a payment arrangement couldnt begin until 
26 January 2020, he could have made payments earlier. As it didnt think it had given Mr G 
the best advice and accepted it failed to respond to an email it paid him £75 and removed 
the adverse data for April 2020. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Santander followed its 
procedures once they were made aware Mr G had decided to switch his account to another 
bank. Santander wrote to Mr G before the switch was completed to instruct him that he had 
to settle his overdraft before the account closed. He was satisfied Santander took 
reasonable steps to notify Mr G of the outstanding balance on his account and how Mr G 
could have settled this amount 60 days after the switch date. He didnt think it was 
reasonable for Santander to have tried to contact Mr G in other ways when it wasnt aware 
that he was working away from home. Santander wrote to Mr G to advise him of the impact 
of not paying off his overdraft. Mr G didnt pay off the outstanding balance before the switch 
date and 60 days after the switch date, and in February 2020 he agreed to set up a payment 
plan. For these reasons, he thought Santander acted accurately to report how the account 
was operated to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). He could see Santander amended 
Mr Gs credit file where applicable and he thought the amount of compensation offered was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G disagreed. He didn't understand how he could have paid back the balance without 
Santander giving him a bank account reference where he should have paid in the 
outstanding balance after his account was closed. He was unhappy that his credit file with 
one of the CRAs is still showing that he missed a payment in March 2020 which he said isnt 
the case.
The investigator responded to say that Mr G could have paid off the overdraft before the 
switch date with his existing account details and Santander set out in three letters how Mr G 
could make a payment after that date. He felt the adverse entries for February and March 
2020 reflected the true picture as Mr G had not paid off the debt in full and the debt had 
been outstanding for more than 60 days.
Mr G continued to be unhappy. He said he couldnt pay the overdraft off before the switch 
because his wages werent paid until 30 November 2020. He still doesnt understand how he 
could have paid back the balance without Santander giving him a bank account reference. In 
addition, if someone makes payments against a debt arrangement surely that should have 
appeared as a confirmed payment in March. His credit file still shows that he missed a 
payment in March on one of the CRAs which is not the case.
The investigator responded if the switch date of 25 November 2019 wasnt convenient 
because Mr G still needed to access his overdraft facility with Santander to support his cash 
flow (until he had sufficient funds available by 30 November 2019), he should have 
discussed this with his new bank before agreeing to the switch date of 25 November 2019. If 
he couldnt come to an agreement with his new bank, he could have made separate 
arrangements with Santander to repay his existing overdraft before he switched. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration and feelings of unfairness here. He thought his overdraft 
would switch across to the new bank and when it didnt, he made a payment that he thought 
would have paid off his overdraft, but it was returned. He didnt appreciate why the payment 
was returned and he missed out on timely notification because he was away from home. 
When he spoke to Santander in January it, by its own admission, neglected to fully advise 
him of his options. He now has entries on his credit file which he is unhappy about.
As I think Mr G now appreciates, he should have either agreed with his new bank for his 
overdraft to be switched or he should have paid off the overdraft with Santander before the 
switch occurred. I appreciate the later wasnt an option for Mr G because of when he is paid 
but he could have chosen a different date for the switch to go ahead.Once the switch was completed Santander followed the CASS rules by not accepting the 
payment Mr G sent. I appreciate Mr G was sending it to pay off the overdraft, but 
Santanders systems couldnt have known that. So, I cant say Santander did anything 
wrong.
I also dont think Santander did anything wrong by communicating with Mr G by letter. I 
accept it was unfortunate that Mr G was away and therefore didnt receive the letters when 
they were sent.
I also dont agree that Santander didnt tell Mr G how to pay off the debt. In its letter of 
3 December 2020 Santander makes it clear how Mr G can pay off the debt, he should either 
visit his local branch to pay by cash or cheque or send a cheque payable to him with his 
account number on the back; or if he had another Santander account he could transfer 
money to clear the balance. The letter makes clear that he shouldnt transfer money via 
Online or Mobile Banking from a non-Santander account as these funds will be redirected to 
the new account.
Mr G says he was told that he couldnt pay off the debt until 26 January 2020 and then only 
by an agreement plan. He also says he wasnt told that there would be an impact on his 
credit file. Santander has accepted that it didnt advise him fully of his options in mid-
January. It believed that this may have caused a delay in Mr G repaying the debt and so it 
removed the adverse entry for April 2020 but felt the entries for February and March 2020 
should remain. I think removing the April entry was fair as was the compensation Santander 
paid. Ill discuss the February and March entries below.
I cant agree with Mr G that Santander didnt warn him that there would be an impact on his 
credit file of an agreement to pay. In its letter of 5 February 2020, it said: A record of this 
arrangement may be sent to the credit reference agencies we share data with. I have looked 
at what Santander has reported to the CRA Mr G has referred to. Santander has reported for 
the months of February and March AR this means an arrangement to pay has been entered 
into. This is correct. Arrangements to Pay are temporary arrangements and dont make a 
permanent change to the credit agreement. Provided the borrower continues to make the 
payments as agreed they stop the lender from registering a default. They dont, however, 
prevent the lender from reporting the length of time the overdraft has gone unpaid since it 
was required to be repaid. In this case Mr G was told the overdraft needed to be repaid 
within sixty days of the account switch. The payment status on his credit report should 
therefore reflect the time since the overdraft should have been cleared. What Santander has 
reported to the CRAs for February and March 2020 is therefore correct. So, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to order a change.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman