DRN-3697893
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt permanently refund payments she disputed 
making from her account.
What happened
Mrs H contacted HSBC to report payments on her account that she says she didnt make. 
She received a refund but was unhappy that this was reversed without notice resulting in an 
overdraft on her account. She wants the money refunded to her.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that after Mrs H had reported the 
fraud it had tried to contact her by telephone and letter and received no response. It had 
written to her to say that as a result the payments would be re-debited. HSBC had spoken to 
her about the payments after that and pointed out that these were for nominal amounts and 
involved retailers shed used before. It stated that there had been no further such payment 
attempts after the report which isnt typical, and the mobile device used for the payments 
was linked to the phone number and details it had for her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He analysed 34 disputed 
payments which came to a total of £367.97. The payments occurred from 1 to 9 February 
2022 and involved internet payments and ones using a mobile phone and the contactless 
feature on Mrs Hs card. Genuine payments had been made during this time using the card 
or the mobile device too.
Mrs H had said that her card and phone were always with her. And her phone had security 
to protect it which nobody else knew. The information was that the only device set up to 
make mobile payments by card was her own phone. So, to make contactless payments a 
fraudster would have needed access to her phone or card  and also her card details for the 
payments made over the internet. And that person would have had to be able to take and 
then return her card and phone without her knowing on a daily basis. He didnt think that this 
was plausible. Mrs H hadnt identified anyone known to her who could have carried out these 
payments without her consent.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said if she had made the payments she wouldnt have reported 
them. This is the second time she had been subject to fraud and shed received a new card 
the last time. Given her financial position she couldnt afford to lose this money and the re-
debit of the payments had resulted in an overdraft. She said that there is all sorts a 
fraudster can do to get access to card details and to set up a mobile phone payment 
method. She also thought it relevant that since shes had a new card HSBC has increased 
its security checks and theres been no repeat of the fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details. And if they werent authorised 
Mrs H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and phone used for 
these payments?
- Did Mrs H authorise the payments on the account, which could have involved her 
allowing someone else to use her details?
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated with Mrs Hs card details. The 
information I have is that the mobile payment method was established on her number on 2 
February 2022 and then used for some of the disputed payments. And the payments made 
over the internet had the card details.
The issue I need to decide on is whether she consented to these payments. I take into 
account that these were largely contactless payments. But also, that there were relatively 
small amounts and not typical of fraud. Mrs H says that she didnt notice the payments 
despite clearly using her account herself including to make online payments. There was 
clearly a risk that any fraudster would be discovered and so would most likely take as much 
money as quickly as possible.
Our investigator has set out the pattern of disputed and genuine payments. Ive also noted 
that genuine contactless payments often followed within a short time of the disputed ones. 
That underlines a key point which is that a fraudster would have to have been able to obtain 
the card or phone to make the payments without Mrs H knowing. And then to replace them 
in time for her to make genuine payments. That would be unlikely and risky on one occasion 
but in my view becomes implausible for the number of times reported here.
I think it reasonable to expect Mrs H to be alert to fraud after having a previous fraud claim 
settled to her account on 10 January 2022. And shes explained how she did keep her card 
and phone with her and protected her phone. She doesnt suspect any of the family 
members living with her and says that no one had her details. 
Having considered all the information and what Mrs H has said I dont think it most likely that 
these payments were made without her consent. Ive also seen the evidence HSBC made 
attempts to contact Mrs H before re-debiting the payments. And so, I dont have a 
reasonable basis to ask HSBC to do anything further. I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed 
with this outcome given what shes said about her financial position. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman