DRN-2362087
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) provided 
poor service in dealing with Mrs Ts motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr T reported an incident to LV in September 2018 after Mrs T tripped over some metal that 
had been left in a precarious position by builders working on a neighbours house. He said 
her car was scratched by their metal. Mr T says he was told by LVs advisor that if the 
contractor didnt pay for the damage, then Mrs T (the policy holder) should contact LV.
In November 2018 the policy renewed automatically. In November 2019 it renewed again, 
but Mr and Mrs T noted that the premium had risen significantly. Mrs T says LV told her it 
was because shed made a claim on the policy (although LV disputes that). Mrs T said she 
hadnt made a claim and that LV hadnt told her in advance about the increased premium, as 
a renewal invitation wasnt issued. She then cancelled  the policy and got cover elsewhere. 
A week after doing that, Mrs T says her new insurer said the premium it had offered her was 
going to rise. She says it told her that when buying the insurance from it, she hadnt declared 
a claim shed made in 2018. The new insurer had noted it on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange database (CUE). Mrs T told LV the record it had made on CUE was fraudulent -  
and that having to change insurers had caused her and Mr T worry and expense. 
LV said it was required to update CUE with any incident it was made aware of, whether a 
claim was made or not. It said as there wasnt a claim on the policy, it had only recorded on 
CUE that it was notified of an incident in September 2018. LV said it didnt take notifications 
of incidents into account when rating premiums, so the incident had had no effect on the 
premiums it set for Mrs T in 2018 or 2019. 
LV also said that it had charged Mrs T less than it should have done in 2018, by failing to 
note a reduction in no claims discount (NCD) that year from nine years to five years. LVs 
omission meant Mrs Ts premium fell, so the rise in premium in 2019 looked more significant. 
LV said the sum it charged in 2019 was correct, based on six years NCD. 
LV later noted that CUE was showing the 2018 incident as open when it should have said 
closed, so it amended the record. It said the open record had made no difference to the 
premiums it had charged Mrs T. But it waived the £67.97 owed to it by Mrs T after she 
cancelled her policy (for time on cover plus a cancellation fee). Mrs T wasnt happy with that.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. He thought LV had acted 
reasonably. He said it was right in recording the report of the 2018 incident on CUE, in line 
with standard industry practice. He noted that Mrs T had benefitted from a lower premium 
after the renewal in 2018 than previously. He said although LV hadnt raised Mrs Ts 
premium due to the incident, other insurers were entitled to rate their policies as they saw fit. 
Mr T said hed been advised by other insurers that they wouldnt have recorded the 2018 
incident on CUE. He thought LV did it to make a financial gain from him and Mrs T, which is 
why it hadnt notified them of the increased premium in 2019. Mr T also said that LV advised 
him not to make a claim and to sort the damage out with the contractors who caused the 
scratches to the car. He said LV had lied about a claim Mrs T hadnt made. In Mr Ts view, 
that was why LV had corrected the CUE record and dropped the extra charges it made. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the initial call Mr T made to LV. The advisor said if a claim was made on the 
policy for the damage to the car, it would be a fault claim (as LV wouldnt be able to recover 
its outlay). He said in that case, the premium would rise at renewal and the policy excess of 
£450 would be payable. Mr T asked if he should go after the contractors. The advisor said 
he could do that if he thought they had caused the damage. Mr T also asked whether the 
damage could be covered by his neighbours household policy. The advisor said Mr T would 
have to check with the neighbours. He asked Mr T whether hed like to leave the matter with 
LV as reported for information only, and Mr T said he would. The advisor didnt advise Mr T 
not to make a claim, or provide any misleading information during the call, in my opinion.  
I think the main issue in Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is that LV created a record on CUE when 
they think it shouldnt have done so. But despite what Mr and Mrs T may have been told 
elsewhere, its standard industry practice for insurers to record all incidents that are reported 
to them on CUE. That includes incidents reported for notification only. So I dont think LV 
was wrong to create the CUE record and I dont think it made a false statement. 
The record should have been marked as closed, but that was corrected as soon as LV 
became aware of it  and LV then made a gesture of goodwill in waiving the sum Mrs T 
owed it. I think Mr and Mrs T may have misunderstood why LV changed the CUE record. It 
only did so it as a system error had left it showing as open. Making the change wasnt an 
acceptance on LVs part that it shouldnt have recorded the incident. 
Many insurers dont increase their premiums based on a notification-only record on CUE. 
Unfortunately, some insurers do, and it seems thats what happened here. Mrs Ts new 
insurer raised the sum it had agreed to charge for her new policy after checking the CUE 
record. Mr and Mrs T say the new insurer said a fault claim was recorded on CUE by LV, but 
I havent seen any evidence to support that. LV cant be held at fault for the factors that other 
insurers consider in deciding what premium to charge for a policy.  
In 2019, Mrs Ts premium was £98 higher than the premium charged by LV in 2017  two 
years earlier. LVs records show that it sent the 2019 renewal notice showing the new 
premium to Mrs T by email three weeks ahead of the renewal date. As LV can show that the 
documents were generated automatically, I think its far more likely than not that they were 
also dispatched automatically. And if Mrs T didnt get the renewal notice, the policy 
documents sent on renewal showed the premium that was being charged. I know Mrs T 
thinks LV should have called her to tell her about the new premium, but I dont think its 
realistic for an insurer to call its huge number of customers about each new premium. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs T lost out as a result of LVs correct action in recording the 2018 
incident on CUE. I think the advisor could have told Mr T during the initial call that a record of 
the incident would be made  but had he done so, it would have made no difference to the 
outcome anyway. I think it was more than fair for LV to provide Mrs T with free time on cover 
prior to the cancellation - and not require her to pay the cancellation fee - by waiving the 
£67.97 she owed.  As I dont think Mr and Mrs T have shown that LV acted unreasonably, I cant uphold their 
complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman