DRN-3177566
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc gave her incorrect information about how a
payment arrangement on her mortgage would be recorded on her credit file.
What happened
Miss F had a mortgage with Santander, held jointly with her now ex-husband. In 2019, she 
told Santander that she was unable to make the full payments due to the mortgage and 
planned to sell her home as she had split up from her husband and he was no longer 
contributing to the mortgage. She entered into a payment arrangement until the property 
could be sold.
Miss F said that Santander told her that entering into a payment arrangement may affect 
her credit rating. But it reassured her that once her home had been sold the arrears 
would be cleared and there would be no adverse information on her credit file and would 
not affect her in the future.
Yet, when Miss F later asked Santander about taking a smaller mortgage, she was told that 
it wouldnt be able to offer her anything because of the mortgage arrears. Miss F said that 
she had been clear with Santander throughout and was led to believe that entering into the 
payment arrangement would have no impact on her credit rating once the property was 
sold. Now she has had to pay the full amount of the early repayment charge (ERC), 
£14,155.43, rather than the smaller amount if she had been able to port her mortgage. She 
also wants compensation for the distress Santander caused her.
I issued a provisional decision. In summary, I found:
Santander ought to have identified Miss F as vulnerable.
If it had done so it is more likely that it would have understood her position and given her
much more clear and accurate information than it did.
The information it did give wasnt always clear or accurate.
Even when it did give information that was factually correct I think it had failed to
understand Miss Fs position or answer her real questions accurately or fairly.
Miss F has been deprived of the opportunity to make an informed choice about whether
to enter into the payment arrangement or not.
Miss F was deprived of the opportunity making an application and appealing the decision
to decline it.
In the circumstances, it wasnt fair or reasonable for Santander to apply the ERC in full. It 
should refund 36% of the ERC. That amount is equivalent to the amount Miss F had 
shown she could afford and could have ported.
Both Santander and Miss F accepted what I said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted what I said, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision and set out above in summary.
Santander had already agreed to pay Miss F £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by it recording incorrect information on her credit file. 
Miss F has given us a consent order that shows the mortgaged property was 
transferred to her sole name and she assumed sole liability for the mortgage. It 
follows that she was solely liable for the ERC and that any refund is due to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should:
Refund 36% of the ERC it applied - £5,095.95.
Pay Miss F £150 for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of the
information being recorded incorrectly on her credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman