DRN-1624885
 
The complaint
Miss D says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss D says Sunny didnt assess whether the lending was affordable for her, 
which it wasnt, and she got into a cycle of debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about ten short-term loans Sunny provided to Miss D between August 2016 
and July 2017. Miss Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 16/08/2016 15/09/2016 Instalments £1,000.00
2 18/10/2016 31/12/2016 Instalments £1,000.00
3 23/01/2017 02/02/2017 Instalments      £50.00
4 24/01/2017 07/02/2017 Instalments    £100.00
5 17/02/2017 15/04/2017 Instalments    £300.00
6 25/02/2017 15/04/2017 Instalments    £300.00
7 02/03/2017 15/04/2017 Instalments    £400.00
8 18/06/2017 16/09/2017 Instalments    £500.00
9 24/06/2017 16/09/2017 Instalments    £500.00
10 10/07/2017 15/09/2017 Instalments    £100.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ds complaint and thought the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been given as there was an indication Miss D was becoming 
persistently reliant upon this type of borrowing. 
Sunny disagreed but did offer to uphold the complaint for loans nine and ten. We passed on 
the offer to Miss D, but she didnt wish to accept it. Sunny then offered to uphold the 
complaint from loan seven onwards but its offer didnt include the interest we wold expect to 
see in a redress calculation. We put the offer to Miss D but again, she rejected it.As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Miss D explained that she was using other 
short-term credit providers when she took loans one to six. But as mentioned above, at the 
early stages of a borrowing relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. So, in the case of Miss D, I wouldnt have expected Sunny to carry out more 
checks than it has shown us it did for loans one to six. When taking this into consideration, 
Sunny wouldnt have seen that Miss D was in financial difficulty. So, while Im also not upholding Miss Ds complaint about loans one to six, the loans were 
part of the borrowing relationship Miss D had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into 
account when considering the other loans she took. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss D, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ds case, and like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss D was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss D had taken out seven loans within seven months. So Sunny 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss D was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ds indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. And this is one of her 
complaint points. 
Miss D was repaying her loans before the agreed term date. While I appreciate this 
would have saved Miss D from interest charges, it can equally be a sign that 
someone is juggling their finances to make ends meet. And quite often Miss D would 
return for additional borrowing shortly after repaying an earlier one. As an example, 
loan four was repaid on 7 February 2017 only for Miss D to return for more borrowing 
on 17 February for loan five. I would question why someone would pay-off a loan 
early only to return for additional borrowing shortly afterwards. 
Miss D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan ten was 
taken out 11 months after Miss Ds first. Miss D had paid large amounts of interest to, 
in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Miss D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans Miss D borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on 
Miss Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan seven to ten and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss D paid on loans seven to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from seven onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans seven to ten should be removed 
from Miss Ds credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ds complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman