DRN-3786308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to turn down a storm claim 
under their Residential Let policy.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H raised a claim on their policy with AXA for damage to their rental property. 
They said the damage was caused by high winds during a storm. The damage consisted of 
render that had blown away from the side of the property, which in turn caused damage to 
the conservatory frame.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim. AXA said it couldnt be shown the 
storm was the primary or effective cause of the damage to the render. It said that it was 
more likely the render had become water damaged and loose over time, and that the winds 
highlighted the problem.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with AXAs decision and say AXA asked them to provide their 
own surveyor report. They did so, and said it showed the storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
AXA reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs report but maintained its decision to turn down the claim as a 
result of wear and tear to the render. It said Mr and Mrs H did have Accidental Damage 
cover if they wished it to consider the damage to the conservatory. AXA offered                  
Mr and Mrs H £25 compensation for some poor communication during the claim.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and referred the matter to our service. In summary they said:
Theyd had to pay out for an independent survey that they didnt think had been fairly 
considered.
Theyd like a further independent surveyor to come out and assess the damage.
That the wind was the predominant cause of the render failing as it was in good 
condition before the storm.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld in part. 
They concluded that the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs H wasnt sufficient to show how 
the render had been loosened by the wind, or that it didnt have any pre-existing issues 
already. So, they concluded that it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim.
However, our investigator concluded that AXA hadnt sufficiently managed Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations regarding them getting their own report. So, they recommended AXA reimburse 
the cost of the report, plus 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs H paid for the report 
to the date of settlement.
Our investigator also identified further delays and examples of poor communication. So, they 
recommended AXA increase its compensation payment to £150 total in the circumstances.
AXA accepted our investigators findings. Mr and Mrs H disagreed. In summary they said:
Theres no proof that any cracks in the render existed prior to the high winds.
AXAs loss adjuster mistook an expansion joint for cracking, so this raises questions 
over the general accuracy of its report.
The surveyor who provided the independent report clearly states they believe the 
render has fallen as a result of the winds.
They dont feel AXAs poor handling of the claim has been recognised. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to determine what exactly caused the render to fail, but rather to decide if AXAs 
decision to turn down the claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. AXAs position 
is that it hasnt been shown a one-off storm caused the damage being claimed for. And that 
the damage happened gradually. As AXA has relied on a policy exclusion, the onus is on it 
as the insurer to show the exclusion fairly applies.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H have asked for a copy of AXAs report and our investigator is 
addressing this. But I dont think that prevents me from reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint in the meantime. Ill explain why below.
The three key questions our service considers in the circumstances of a storm claim are:
1. Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2. Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
To answer these questions, Ive considered the expert reports provided by both parties. And 
Ive also checked the local weather records from around the time of the claim.
Both parties accept there were high winds around the time of the claim, which could be 
classed as storm level winds. So, the first question isnt in dispute here.
The photos Ive seen show a portion of the render has broken off near a first-floor window. 
Mr and Mrs Hs view is that the wind speeds were sufficient in force to pull the render off the 
structure. AXAs view is that correctly applied render would be bonded to the structure and 
wouldnt break down unless in exceptional circumstances. And its surveyor stated there 
were visible cracks to the render between the windows which would allow water to penetrate 
and expand, causing debonding.
Ive thought about both points carefully, but on balance Im more persuaded by AXAs view, 
so I conclude that the damage to the render isnt consistent with what Id expect to see from 
a storm.
I do accept theres a degree of subjectiveness as to what is or isnt considered typical storm 
damage. So, in order to give Mr and Mrs H the benefit of the doubt, Ive also considered the 
third question about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.Having carefully considered everything, I am more persuaded that the storm wasnt the main 
cause of the damage. I say this because:
The evidence from both reports suggests that some cracking was present in the 
render.
Mr and Mrs Hs report suggests that winds could have caused the render to be 
effectively pulled from the buildings. And that Whilst traditional sand and cement 
renders should withstand general weather conditions, storms and exceptionally 
adverse high winds will always have potential for damage to buildings. (My 
emphasis in bold).
I find this to be more of a general observation. Its not persuaded me that the wind managed 
to cause the damage claimed to the render, which shouldve been applied to resist all but the 
worst weather conditions.
In other words, Im not persuaded on balance that the wind speed recorded was sufficient to 
remove the render without any other intervening cause (such as an underlying defect).
Therefore, I dont find it unreasonable for AXA to conclude that the damage happened over 
time as opposed to suddenly failing. So, I find AXA has assessed the claim fairly on the 
available evidence. The policy excludes gradual damage and Im persuaded that AXA has 
shown this exclusion applies.
I do agree that AXA couldve managed Mr and Mrs Hs expectations better around the 
obtaining of an independent report. And Im satisfied that the reimbursement of this report 
and the additional interest will put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they wouldve been in 
but for AXAs communication.
In turn, I can also see times during the claim where Mr and Mrs H had to chase responses 
from AXA regarding updates to the claim, including the outcome of their independent report 
review. And this wouldve added additional frustration above what would typically be 
expected for a claim of this nature. So having considered everything, I agree that a payment 
of £150 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by AXA here.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs H for the cost of their own independent report.
oAdd 8% simple interest on this sum, from the date Mr and Mrs H paid for the 
report, to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H and Mrs H £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman