DRN-1720410
The complaint
Mr J has complained that he is unhappy about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) has dealt with a claim under his policy and that the claim has been recorded as a 
fault claim even though he thinks the claim is fraudulent.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr J was involved in an accident. Mr J explained that a third party had 
moved into his lane and hit his vehicle. The third party disputed this version of events and 
said it was Mr J that caused the accident.
The claim remained open for some time and in March 2019 Admiral explained it would be 
looking to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. This was because there was no independent 
evidence to support either sides version of events, and the damage to the cars could have 
been caused in either of the circumstances described by Mr J and the third-party.
Mr J raised a complaint which was upheld in part and his no claims discount (NCD) was 
reinstated.
Admiral wrote to Mr J again explaining it would be settling the claim on a 50/50 basis. Mr J 
remains unhappy with this decision as he thinks the third-party is making a fraudulent claim 
and Admiral should have done more to push the third-party to admit responsibility for the 
accident. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Js complaint and thought that although the claim had been 
ongoing for a considerable time, that Admirals decision was fair, and didnt think Admiral 
should have to do anything more to resolve Mr Js complaint.
My J disagreed with our Investigators findings, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts. 
Instead we look to see that an insurer has made its decision on how to settle a claim fairly, 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Like most policies we see Mr Js policy gives Admiral the right to take over and defend or 
settle any claims against him as it sees fit. This might mean Admiral makes a decision Mr J 
doesnt agree with, but the policy allows it to do so. My role is to consider whether its done 
so fairly and reasonably.
It is clear from the evidence provided that the damage to the vehicles could have occurred if 
the accident happened in the way Mr J had described, or in the way the third-party had 
described. There is no independent evidence to support either sides version of events.
This claim went on for some time with both sides disputing liability for the accident and 
neither side conceding. In circumstances such as this, claims can take a considerable 
amount of time to resolve. This is due to neither side taking responsibility for the accident 
and both trying to defend their side. When an agreement cant be made delays can be 
inevitable. 
As there is limited evidence to support either sides version of events, I dont think Admiral 
has acted unreasonably in settling the claim on a 50/50 basis. This decision was made 
because Admiral didnt think it had a reasonable chance of success if the case proceeded to 
a court setting. Considering the circumstances, I think this decision was reasonable.
I appreciate Mr Js feeling that the third-party were acting fraudulently when making their 
claim, and that this hasnt been considered by Admiral. But I cant see any evidence to 
support this point so I wouldnt expect Admiral to pursue this further.
Mr J has told us on several occasions that he wanted to provide further information for us to 
consider, but as nothing more has been submitted by him, I have been unable to consider 
any additional points.
Overall, I think Admiral has acted fairly in the way it has dealt with this claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman