DRN-1658967
The complaint
Ms D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt give her the cover she wanted when she 
took out her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D called Aviva in January 2020 and asked for a quote for a car insurance policy. She 
gave all her details and asked for fully comprehensive cover. Aviva gave Ms D a quote and 
she accepted this and paid for the policy over the course of three phone conversations.
When Ms D received her policy documents she was unhappy that her policy wasnt fully 
comprehensive, and so it didnt include a courtesy car, breakdown cover and legal cover in 
the price that she paid. She complained to Aviva. Aviva said that it had listened to the calls 
and it had explained to Ms D that she would have to pay additional premiums for the 
breakdown, legal and courtesy car cover. It explained that it had tried to explain this over the 
phone to Ms D but she didnt want to pay the additional premium. Aviva said Ms D could 
cancel her policy without incurring a cancellation charge as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. She felt Aviva had done enough to make it 
clear to Ms D that these optional extras werent included in her quote. And it had told Ms D 
what she needed to pay to add on these extras. Ms D disagreed. She said she doesnt 
believe the calls were accurate. She asked for an ombudsman to review the file so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the three calls Ms D had with Aviva when she received her quote, through to 
paying for the policy. These calls took place on 9, 17 and 18 January 2020. Its clear she 
was looking for fully comprehensive cover, but Aviva made it clear it didnt offer this. In Ms 
Ds second call the adviser explained it would be misleading to call it fully comprehensive 
because Avivas comprehensive cover doesnt include a courtesy car or roadside 
assistance.
In all three calls Aviva explains that it would cost more to add on the courtesy car and 
roadside assistance to the cover. In the second call, the adviser gives the quote and Ms D 
says she doesnt want to pay the additional amount for that cover. During the third call, Aviva 
explains the quote is for basic cover and doesnt include the optional extras. The adviser 
explains what the optional extras are and says there will be an extra cost and Ms D confirms 
she does not want to add these additional extras to her cover as she would like to only pay 
the original quote.
So whilst I understand Ms D would have liked the courtesy car, legal cover and roadside 
assistance as part of her policy, I think Aviva made it clear this was not included in her 
quote. And Ms D didnt want to pay the additional cost. So it follows that these are not 
included in her policy. As Aviva did its best to explain this to Ms D during the three phone calls, I wont be asking it to do anything more. Ms D will need to contact Aviva if she wishes 
to cancel or amend her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman