DRN-2099832
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) treated him unfairly when he was withdrawing 
money from a branch.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr C, along with a relative, attended a TSB branch to withdraw around 
£6,300 from his account. Mr C was asked by the cashier what the money was for. He felt this 
was an unnecessary question, and because the answer was personal, he refused to answer. 
A manager was called and further questions were asked. This included details about the 
relationship with the person who had deposited the sum into his account that same morning. 
As Mr C didnt answer, he says TSB froze his account.
Following this, the manager took Mr C and his relative into a private room. Mr Cs relative 
provided details about the reasons for the transfer. And Mr C has said the account was 
unfrozen at this time and the withdrawal was made. 
Mr C said the manager treated him disrespectfully and had discussed his details and 
information (including his name, his relatives name, and the sum being withdrawn) in front of 
other customers queuing. Mr C said these actions were a breach of data protection laws. He 
also said the manager in question was aware Mr C was under no duress to withdraw the 
funds so there shouldnt have been an objection.
 
TSB said it asked Mr C for information as hed approached the counter with an initially 
unidentified person, the requested sum was large and out of character with his usual 
account activity, and because a similar sum had been transferred into his account recently 
by a third party. TSB said it never froze Mr Cs account, but the manager had explained a 
temporary block may be placed on his account for security if its questions werent answered. 
TSB said it couldve taken Mr C to a separate room earlier than it did. But said overall it 
hadnt done anything wrong and its actions had been to protect both Mr C and the bank. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said TSB had legal and 
regulatory rules to consider, alongside an obligation to protect its customers from fraud and 
scams, and this was detailed in the account terms and conditions. And in the circumstances 
she felt it was reasonable for TSB to ask the questions it did. So while this may have been 
frustrating, she wasnt persuaded TSB had made a mistake or done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed. He said he felt the manager had abused their position and treated him with 
contempt. He said he couldve resolved the matter himself by giving a false intention for the 
funds but chose not to. He also reiterated his concerns about data protection laws. As Mr C 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. And for broadly the 
same reasons.
As our investigator has outlined, TSB is obliged to consider the welfare of its customers. In 
this case it has asked Mr C details about the transaction because the proposed cash 
withdrawal was large, it classed this request as unusual considering his previous account 
activity, because a third party was present, and because the money had entered his account 
recently. I think these reasons justify the questions TSB asked, and it seems these were 
asked with Mr Cs welfare in mind. So Im not persuaded TSB made a mistake by asking the 
questions it did about the intended withdrawal.
TSB said it couldve taken Mr C to a meeting room earlier than it did. Its possible this may 
have helped resolve the situation quicker. But given the personal reasons Mr C described 
were only provided when he and his relative were in the private room, the impact of this 
seems limited. 
Mr C has also raised concerns about his information being discussed in branch in front of 
other customers. From what Mr C has said, I would think providing these details is simply 
part and parcel of attending a branch and speaking to a cashier to make a cash withdrawal. 
So based on what Ive been provided with, Im not persuaded TSB has done anything wrong 
and Im not asking it do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman