DRN-3458869
The complaint
Mr P complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr P with a loan as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentLoan 
status
November 
2016£1,000.00 24 months £98.79 Debt 
sold
When Mr P complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps complaint. She thought that 118 118 Money 
shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Ps financial situation. But after 
looking at Mr Ps bank statements from the time of the loan, she didnt feel able to say that 
she had seen enough to show that the loan was unaffordable. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr P disagreed with our adjudicator. Briefly, he strongly felt that as he was on a temporary 
contract for a three-month period when he took out the loan, the two-year term shouldnt 
have been approved. He also thought that the income and expenditure information had been 
too limited and that his bank statements showed that he shouldnt have been given this loan. 
So, as the complaint is unresolved, it comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold this complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. And even if a proportionate check 
was done and a loan looked affordable, a lender should still think about whether theres any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed 
to before agreeing to lend to Mr P.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr P about his income and expenses 
before it agreed the loan. It told us it completed industry standard verification checks with a 
third party to verify the information Mr P provided and it checked Mr Ps credit file to 
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
118 118 Money concluded that its loan was affordable for Mr P  and I can see that the 
figures it relied on suggested he should have ample surplus cash to pay this loan. 
But I dont think 118 118 Money thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered potentially revealed about Mr Ps overall financial situation. I say this because it 
wasnt clear why he was increasing his reliance on expensive credit. 
The figures suggested he had disposable income each month at least equal to the amount of 
the loan he was applying for  although 118 118 Money recorded that Mr P wanted the loan 
to pay for car purchase/repairs. So I think that couldve been a plausible reason why he 
might have needed extra money, but 118 118 Money hasnt shown me this was particularly 
discussed. 
118 118 Money also saw that there was some adverse information shown on the credit 
checks it obtained suggesting hed had money problems within the last year or so as there 
were a number of defaults from 2015. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But whilst the information 118 118 Money saw wasnt enough in my view to warrant refusing 
his loan application, I think 118 118 Money shouldve been alerted to the need for more in-
depth checking to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ps finances.   
To my mind, 118 118 Moneys checks should have included a full review of Mr Ps financial 
circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that 
the loan repayments were likely to be affordable over the term of the loan.
But although I dont think the checks 118 118 Money did before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, thats not enough for me to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I also need to be 
able to say that if 118 118 Money had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, 
these would have shown 118 118 Money that Mr P couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments.Mr P has sent me bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what 118 118 Money 
could have found out about his overall financial situation had it carried out more in-depth 
checks at the time. 
It didnt look like Mr P was over-reliant on using expensive credit or that this borrowing was 
unaffordable for him. The bank statements he has provided show his bank accounts were 
reasonably well managed. 
It looks like he was mostly keeping up with the payments owed on his active credit accounts 
around the time he took out this loan. 
He was being charged small amounts for going into unarranged overdraft from time to time 
but mainly maintaining the account in credit. 
It was apparent that Mr M had money available to spend on non-essentials and spare cash 
for discretionary spending. 
I could see nothing to suggest that Mr Ps reliance on credit was excessive or that his debt 
had got beyond his control. 
I acknowledge that Mr P feels strongly about his complaint and in the course of 
correspondence with our adjudicator hes mentioned several points of concern. I have 
concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of his 
complaint. If I have not commented specifically on each point hes raised its because I have 
nothing further I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has said already. 
Overall, I havent seen enough in the information available to me which shows 118 118 
Money should have decided not to agree this loan had it done what I consider wouldve been 
a proportionate check at the time. So I am unable to safely conclude that 118 118 Money 
gave Mr P a loan that it should have realised was unaffordable for him. This is why Im not 
upholding the complaint. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr P but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman