DRN-2933779
The complaint
Miss L complains that Hastings insurance Services Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy and applied cancellation charges when she told it she had sold her car. She is willing 
to pay no more than the outstanding balance of the annual premium. 
What happened
Miss L told Hastings that shed sold her car. Hastings said it had no option but to cancel the 
policy as there was no longer an insurable asset for it to cover. It explained that Miss L had 
paid £256.21 when £325.82 was due on cancellation. This included its £45 cancellation fee, 
as shown in the policy booklet. So it said Miss L owed it £69.61. But Miss L was prepared to 
pay just the outstanding premiums for the policy year, with interest, £51.24.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
was entitled to cancel the policy under its terms and conditions as Miss L no longer owned 
the car. He thought it had correctly applied its charges. He thought that if Miss L had 
discussed selling her car, Hastings could have advised her of the consequences. So he 
couldnt say it had done anything wrong.
Miss L replied that she thought it was unfair for Hastings to rely on a consumer not retaining 
ownership of the car to cancel the policy. She thought this wasnt stated clearly in the policy 
documents. She said she had no reason to discuss selling her car with Hastings. She 
thought she wasnt obliged to tell Hastings that she had sold her car. Miss L asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ls frustration. She was about a month away from the end of her 
policy year when she sold her car and the policy was cancelled. So shes left owing more 
than if the policy had kept running until year end.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Miss L thought she wasnt obliged to tell Hastings that shed sold her car. But I disagree. I 
can see that on page 32 of the policy booklet, under Keeping Your Policy Up to Date, it 
states:
You must let us know if you move house, change your job, change your Car/s, change what 
you use your Car/s for (i.e. business use) or if you want to include other drivers.
So I think it was reasonable for Hastings to expect Miss L to tell it that she had sold her car. 
Miss L thought Hastings shouldnt have cancelled her policy. But I can see that in the policy 
booklet, on pages 36 and 37, Hastings sets out its rights to cancel the policy. This includes:
Your Insurer Is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other reason.
I think that as Miss L had sold her car and wasnt replacing it, she no longer had an insurable 
asset and so the insurer would be unable to provide cover. I think this is standard industry 
practice and I cant say that its unfair. If the cars new owner had made a claim, Miss Ls 
insurer may have been held liable. And I dont think this would be fair. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for Hastings to cancel the policy for this reason. 
Hastings then calculated what Miss L owed for her cover. It included the insurers pro-rata 
charge for time on risk, direct debit interest, Hastings set-up fee, and Hastings cancellation 
charge. I think these charges are clearly set out in its Welcome Pack and theyre in keeping 
with other charges Ive seen. So I cant say they are unfair or unreasonable.
Miss L had paid less than the amount Hastings had calculated, so it asked her to pay the 
difference, £69.61. This was more than Miss L would have paid if Miss Ls policy had run its 
full course. And Ive seen cases where this difference has been waived. But I think Hastings 
isnt obliged to do this. And, as Ive stated above, its acted within the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say that its done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman