DRN-3881768
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society issued him with a behavioural letter after 
he visited one of its branches.
What happened
Mr B says he was treated poorly in a Nationwide branch on 22 July 2022. But Nationwide did 
not ask for his version of events prior to issuing a letter five days later that warned him that it 
would not accept raised voices or derogatory comments towards its staff.
He is unhappy that on the day the manager did not identify himself properly and was 
argumentative. He asks why the cashier needed to ask him for more information for a small 
internal transfer.
He wants Nationwide to withdraw the letter of 27 July 2022.
Nationwide said the letter was fair. An incident had occurred in the branch, Mr B had raised 
his voice to an employee and it was right the deputy manager intervened. The incident report 
it had, and the witness statements taken, show Mr B acted inappropriately whereas the 
branch staff were polite and professional.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said from the available evidence he felt 
the letter Nationwide had sent Mr B was reasonable. 
Mr B disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He asked why 
the CCTV footage was not available given he had made his complaint within 30 days of the 
event; the manager did not introduce himself and his name badge failed to properly identify 
him - he lied saying he was the manager when hes a deputy manager; the service in the 
branch was poor and employees are covering up for their own behaviour; it as unfair 
Nationwide did not check in with him before sending the letter  he is a long-standing 
customer with no previous history of such incidents; and the transaction did not need any 
further verification by the cashier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words based on what I think is most 
likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I have thought carefully 
about all of Mr Bs comments but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution 
service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I find to be material to the 
outcome of Mr Bs complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
I have reviewed the incident report and witness statements supplied by Nationwide and 
carefully considered Mr Bs testimony. Together this information provides a contradictory 
picture of what happened in the branch. Nationwide describes an interaction during which  
Mr B became agitated and offensive towards a member of staff. Mr B describes how he was 
asked unnecessary questions and once involved, the manager was aggressive and 
intimidating. There is no CCTV available as Nationwide only holds footage for 30 days, so I 
cannot know with certainty what happened.
However I am satisfied the Nationwide employee at the centre of the incident was negatively 
impacted - Nationwides submission confirms she was visibly upset and asked to log the 
incident. And I have reviewed Nationwides internal Verbal & Aggressive Behaviour policy 
which outlines how it must respond to employees reports of inappropriate behaviour. 
Rightly, it has a duty of care to its employees, as well its members. From the information it 
gathered I think it was reasonable to send the warning letter to Mr B.
Mr B also challenged why the adviser needed to ask the questions she did, but I have found 
no evidence that her motivation was anything other than to allow the correct processing of 
Mr Bs request - he holds 38 different accounts with Nationwide. 
Mr B asked why the CCTV footage was not reviewed from the outset. Nationwide explained 
that its policy is to look at the employees report and then take witness statements when a 
Verbal & Aggressive Behaviour incident is raised, unless it is an exceptional situation or 
serious assault. It followed this approach before sending the letter. Mr B says he complained 
within 30 days of the event, but I can see it was 14 September 2022 when the final response 
letter was issued so I find it plausible that by the time Mr Bs formal complaint was 
investigated it was outside the 30 days.  
It follows I am not instructing Nationwide to take any action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman