DRN-3370292
The complaint
Mr M complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc had made a number of mistakes when 
providing him with information and they failed to communicate using the adjustments they 
had previously agreed.
What happened
In the autumn of 2020 Mr M received a bank statement in the post from Barclays. Its agreed 
he had previously elected to receive online statements. We were also told that due to Mr Ms 
disability, all correspondence ought to have been set to be sent in a large print compared to 
Barclays standard print size. The statement Mr M received was the standard print size. 
Barclays cant explain why the statement was sent by post or in this way. They accept these 
were errors. Mr M says this wasnt the first time and it caused him great anxiety and stress.
Mr M complained by an email addressed to the Barclays Group Chief Executive to complain. 
He perceived customers with disabilities didnt matter to the business. On 20 November 
2020 Barclays replied to Mr M and accepted they hadnt done what they ought to have done. 
They said they ought to have ensured Mr Ms service was set for statements to be sent in 
large print. They reassured Mr M his service was now set for statements to be sent in large 
print and this ought to have been done before. It wasnt clear to Barclays why this hadnt 
been. They offered Mr M £50.
Mr M told Barclays, they hadnt addressed all of his complaint. Theyd failed to explain why a 
statement had been sent to his home rather than being made available online. He also 
referred to having expected someone to call him. Mr M felt Barclays had failed to make  
reasonable adjustments for him.
Barclays confirmed Mr Ms statements had always previously been provided and available 
online and couldnt say why this hadnt happened this time. They said they had updated the
settings and increased their offer to Mr M to £100. They also confirmed their system showed 
all other correspondence was to be sent using the larger than standard print. Mr M accepted 
the offer of £100.
Barclays letter accepting they hadnt done what they ought to have done was made 
available to Mr M via his online banking. It was also sent to him via surface mail. The surface 
mail letter was sent using Barclays standard size print, not the larger size. Mr M felt this 
showed Barclays werent taking his complaint seriously and told them so. Barclays 
apologized and said the writer had intended for the letter to be in large print but had made a 
mistake. Barclays offered Mr M a further £25. Mr M rejected this.
Mr M said hed been told before personal letters would automatically be generated in large 
print, so he had difficulties with their explanation. He felt the offers were derisory. Mr M told 
us he didnt believe the same mistake wouldnt be repeated, as it has previously.
An investigator at this service concluded Barclays made mistakes but that their offer here 
had been fair when taken in totality. 
The investigator thought Mr Ms requests for adjustments were reasonable, and it was only 
as a result of Mr Ms actions the issue had been investigated and Mr Ms requests 
reinstated. The investigator acknowledged hed seen what was said about failing to comply 
with the obligations of the Equality Act and the provision of reasonable adjustments. The 
investigator said hed taken the statutory requirements into account when reaching his view. 
He told Mr M that if he wanted a decision about whether Barclays actions were in breach of 
their statutory requirements, this was something that would need to be considered 
elsewhere. 
The investigator considered that where manual interventions are required its reasonable to 
understand errors might arise. It was clear to the investigator that the surface mail sending of 
the final response letter from Barclays in standard print had added to the impact on Mr M.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this view. In summary he said:
He ought to have been contacted by Barclays when hed complained. 
He disagreed with what was said about accepting the potential for human error when 
it comes to manual adjustments.
Mr M accepts human errors can occur, but he not repeatedly. Mr M said the investigator 
ought to have referred to other complaints Mr M says have been made to Barclays about 
correspondence.
First provisional decision
In September 2021 I provided my first provisional decision on this complaint. In it I explained 
why Barclays hadnt provided satisfactory service overall, but that I intended to conclude 
based on what Id seen, they had offered enough in the circumstances. I also set out areas 
where Barclays were asked to provide additional information. Mr M was invited to do so if he 
wished.
Barclays response
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. They let me know that in the18 months prior to 
this complaint being made, Mr M had made one previous complaint. This had been in 
September 2020 and bore no similarity to Mr Ms current concerns.
Barclays say they have made reasonable adjustments to support Mr M and the correct 
markers are in place on their systems. Barclays stress the mistakes here were due to human 
error and were not deliberate.
Mr Ms response
Mr M let us know he had been unwell and continues to be. In summary Mr M said the 
following in response to my first provisional decision:
He repeated he was told someone would contact him from Barclays about his 
complaint; but no one did. He remains unhappy he wasnt contacted and instead was 
told his complaint was closed and only £50 offered.
Mr M didnt think I understood that he thinks a person ought to check the size of their 
font when writing to him before sending it. Mr M stressed his concern about the lack 
of attention to detail.Mr M questioned if it was reasonable for me to accept the use of manual intervention 
in writing might involve human error. He suggests that every time he receives a 
manually created letter it arrives in small print and thats not acceptable.
Mr M wanted to know why the information from Barclays didnt contain any of his 
complaints made in the 18 months prior to this complaint.
Mr M thought I failed to understand it is more complicated for a person with sight 
problems to access online electronic messages. Mr M says Barclays told him 
communications cant be provided via the banking app and this is why he has asked 
for communications (apart from statements) to be provided to him by surface mail in 
larger type face.
Mr M said the customer sets the preference for online statements.
Mr M perceived I had asked him to provide personal information. He took issue with this; 
saying this was never requested during the investigation. Mr M told us Barclays are aware of 
his sight disability and requirements. He also lets me know some of the additional support he 
uses around documents and that Barclays had a dedicated adviser who understood his 
needs.
Mr M let us know he has been seriously ill in hospital and this impacted his ability to 
respond. He said he can ask friends to search his emails for the many complaints he made 
to Barclays in the 18 months prior to this complaint; but this would impact on how they are 
able to meet his care needs. He said Barclays ought to be able to provide this information.
Mr M concluded letting me know that when correspondence is not in the required format, he 
needs to ask someone else to read it; and he doesnt wish others to know about his 
finances. Mr M says the impact of not having documents, impacts on other physical and 
mental health conditions and the stress and anxiety involved causes him to deteriorate.
Second provisional decision
I hadnt changed my thinking. But there had been unintended delay and I wanted to share 
my thinking and information, and give Mr M further opportunity in the circumstances to 
respond or provide anything further.
I confirmed Barclays said there had been no similar complaints made in the 18 months 
before this complaint. I set out a little more information about our service and how an 
ombudsman approaches a case for decision. I also set out that Mr M had been invited rather 
than required, to provide anything if he wished to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out previously, and so I am not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint about Barclays. Barclays made errors, but they offered enough, taking everything 
into account, to reflect what went wrong. 
Generally, this service considers each case on its individual facts and merits. Mr M says the 
same or similar errors had been made previously and during the 18 months prior to the 
matters leading to this complaint. I previously indicated this might be something I would take account of, when thinking about Barclays errors and whether their offer was sufficient. Mr M 
said Barclays could provide this information. Barclays say there were no similar complaints 
or (by implication) errors made in the 18 months prior to the events in the autumn of 2020. 
I am not persuaded there were similar events or errors in this time, Barclays were 
specifically asked to provide such information, which, they would be expected to have done. 
Consequently, I dont think the errors of the autumn of 2020 can be said to form part of a 
close contemporaneous history or pattern where the impact of repeat errors would be 
something for me to consider, and when considering the offer made.
Previous and recent similar circumstances are something that might have informed my 
assessment of the care and attention Id expect Barclays to reasonably take in ensuring 
appropriate service and adjustments were provided. Particularly whether additional care 
ought reasonably to have been expected.
I accept Barclays didnt intend to make the errors complained of. I agree with Mr M the errors 
demonstrate failures around service and applying sufficient attention.
Broadly I accept the logic, that where manual adjustments are required, the possibility of 
human error cant be completely removed. This doesnt make any potential future error 
reasonable or otherwise. I cant consider anything that has not yet happened. I have 
considered what has happened here. Barclays accept the adjustments they ought to have 
provided here, were reasonable, and dont disagree they ought to have followed them. 
It was particularly poor service when the surface mail copy of Barclays response to Mr Ms 
complaint wasnt in the larger print size. It ought to have been, and to receive this letter in 
standard size print would have felt insulting. I am satisfied it wasnt intended to be. But it 
demonstrates a real failure by Barclays, as their employee didnt provide a satisfactory 
service, and it would appear to me to be a reasonable step to ensure when answering a 
complaint that adjustments in relation to communication needs are being followed.
I appreciate money cant address the frustration Mr M felt and the impact of the errors. Im 
not clear if Mr M has been paid the total of £125 offered, it may be that £25 is outstanding. 
Barclays confirmed they accepted my first provisional decision. If Barclays havent yet paid 
the full sum to Mr M Id expect this to be paid within 14 days of this decision; albeit I am not 
upholding the complaint and as such cant require Barclays in this decision to make the 
payment, but any failure to comply with their own agreement, may well be referred back to 
this service.
Barclays dont know why Mr Ms statement was sent to him on the occasion leading to this 
complaint; rather than made available electronically as it usually was. I understand Mr M 
doesnt feel satisfied by the lack of explanation, but I accept Barclays cant identify why the 
error happened.
For completeness Mr M continues to feel someone ought to have contacted him prior to 
Barclays providing their response to his complaint. This isnt something Ive considered here. 
As I explained previously, broadly speaking complaints handling isnt something this service 
looks into.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman