DRN-1760745
The complaint
Mr B complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has turned down a curtailment claim 
he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was on holiday abroad when unfortunately, he was robbed and assaulted. He said the 
local Police helped him to pack up his things and took him to the airport, so he could return 
home early. Mr B said he called IPA to ask for its help and to ask if it could lend him the 
money to get home, as his wallet had been stolen. He told us IPA directed him to the local 
Embassy for assistance. He also said IPA wouldnt help him as he didnt have a Police 
report. Mr B felt IPA should pay for his return flight and his train and taxi fares.
IPA turned down Mr Bs claim. It said it simply wasnt covered by the curtailment section of 
his policy. Mr B disagreed and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said hed been hurt 
and distressed. And IPA had refused to help him when he most needed it.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think IPA had any 
liability under the policy in Mr Bs particular circumstances. He explained that if Mr B had 
sought medical assistance and incurred medical expenses, IPA mightve been responsible 
for meeting these. He thought there was no evidence to show itd been medically necessary 
for Mr B to come home early. So he thought it was fair for IPA to turn down his claim. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed been beaten badly while on holiday and all hed wanted to do 
was to go home. He said hed suffered eye and hand injuries. He hadnt wanted to go to a 
foreign hospital, hed been alone with no money and he was too frightened to stay in the 
hotel. He thought IPA should pay his claim without a quibble. And he said hed offered to 
repay IPA for the airfare if itd paid it upfront, but it hadnt given him the slightest bit of help.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for IPA to turn down Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Bs situation. Hes told us he had no company, 
hed been left with no money and hed suffered injuries in the robbery. I can entirely 
understand why he wanted to come home early. But in making my decision, I need to 
consider the terms of Mr Bs policy and whether IPAs applied them fairly. 
Section A of Mr Bs policy does cover a policyholder curtailing their trip (cutting a trip short) 
in certain circumstances. These are: the death, injury, illness, disease or complications of 
pregnancy of a policyholder, their close relative or business associate; members of the 
armed forces etc. having their leave cancelled or being called-up; or the Police or other 
authorities asking a policyholder to come home or stay home.
Mr B has told us that he suffered eye and hand injuries. So it seems he did suffer an injury. 
But the special conditions which apply to Section A include the following term:
You must get (at your own expense) a medical certificate from a medical practitioner and 
the prior approval of the Emergency Assistance Service to confirm the necessity to return 
home, prior to the curtailment of the trip due to death, bodily injury, illness, disease or 
complications of pregnancy.
Its a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim on their policy. As Mr B 
told us he didnt want to go to a hospital abroad, there isnt any available medical evidence 
from the time to show it was medically necessary for him to return home early. And he hasnt 
sent us any medical evidence following his return home which suggests he needed to cut 
short his trip for medical reasons. Mr Bs also told us he didnt get a crime reference number 
 and it isnt clear if he got a Police report either, which mightve detailed his injuries. If he 
had, IPA couldve potentially considered whether it wouldve recommended curtailment 
based on the injuries the Police had recorded.
Mr Bs situation doesnt fall into either of the other listed events on the policy either. So I 
dont think that Mr B has shown he has a valid curtailment claim on his policy. This means I 
think it was fair for IPA to turn it down. If he is able to provide IPA with medical evidence or a 
Police report which supports his claim though, he should send this onto IPA for it to consider. 
Ive also thought about whether IPA shouldve done more to help Mr B when he called up. I 
think suggesting that he get in touch with the Embassy was a reasonable suggestion.  I 
wouldnt reasonably expect IPA to loan Mr B money for his flight, as it isnt a credit provider. 
And as hes said he didnt want to go to hospital, IPA wasnt in a position to determine if Mr B 
needed treatment or to cut short his trip. 
So overall, I dont think IPA has done anything wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman