DRN-2490436
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the claim costs recorded against them by Fairmead 
Insurance Limited following a claim made under their landlords insurance policy. Theyre 
also unhappy that Fairmead refused to pay for loss of rent whilst repairs take place.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs O made a claim under their buildings insurance policy following a 
fire. This was accepted and Fairmead arranged repairs. Following this, water damage 
took place due to a suspected blocked downpipe. Despite several attempts to repair this, 
the matter wasnt resolved.
Fairmead didnt think the blocked downpipe was related to the claim, but it offered Mr and 
Mrs O £350 compensation for its handling of the repairs. Mr and Mrs O brought a 
complaint to this service about the matter, and we thought the blocked downpipe likely 
had been linked to the claim. It was recommended that Fairmead pay Mr and Mrs O a 
settlement to arrange the repairs themselves. Both Fairmead and Mr and Mrs O agreed 
with this.
Mr and Mrs O say the leaks were then found to originate from the roof, and so repairs to 
the roof were needed. Fairmead paid Mr and Mrs O a cash settlement for those repairs.
Mr and Mrs O asked Fairmead to cover the loss of rent whilst the repairs take 
place. Fairmead refused as it thought the property would still be habitable during 
the repairs.
Mr and Mrs O also complained about the claim costs recorded on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). They thought it was unfair for all the claim costs to be recorded on CUE, 
as the attempted repairs for the water damage were ineffective. They thought their 
premiums would have been impacted by this. Fairmead said that it would review their 
concerns about this.
Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mr and Mrs O brought a new complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 December 2020. My provisional findings said:
Loss of rent
The repairs havent yet taken place. Mr and Mrs O say that a new roof is needed, and 
that no contractor will do this if the property is being lived in.
Theyve provided a statement from their contractor which says they expect the works to 
take approximately six months, and that they will require the property to be empty in order 
to carry out the works. They explain the reason for that is because they need to remove 
the roof, and that would make the property uninhabitable.
Fairmead says that the roof repairs wouldnt impact the kitchen, bathroom and bedrooms. 
And that the roof wouldnt be off the property for the full six months, and so the property 
may only be uninhabitable for a few weeks. I think those are reasonable points. The 
evidence from Mr and Mrs Os contractor only refers to the property being uninhabitable 
whilst the roof is removed.
Given that the further repairs are now only needed because Fairmead couldnt put right 
the problem, I think Fairmead should deal with the loss of rent whilst the property is 
uninhabitable, and the tenants need to move out. It seems Fairmead also now accept 
this.
Fairmead is under the impression that the property is currently untenanted. However, Mr 
and Mrs O say there are tenants living there, and theyve provided a copy of the signed 
tenancy agreement.
Although Mr and Mrs O want Fairmead to pay for loss of rent in advance of the repairs 
taking place, I dont think thatd be fair. I say that because we dont know at this stage how 
long the property will be uninhabitable for.
For a loss of rent claim to be payable, Mr and Mrs O must show theyve incurred a 
financial loss. As the repairs havent yet taken place, that means Mr and Mrs O havent 
experienced a loss of rental income. When they do, they should submit this information to 
Fairmead, and Id expect it to deal with the matter under the remaining policy terms.
I dont think its helpful at this stage to speculate over how long the property may be 
uninhabitable for, nor do I think any loss of rent claim should be based on the opinion 
of Fairmeads loss adjuster, who hasnt carried out a recent inspection. Instead, I 
think Mr and Mrs O should provide Fairmead with the relevant information in respect 
of their loss of rental income once this has happened. Id expect Fairmead to then 
deal with the claim in line with the policy terms. If Mr and Mrs O are unhappy about 
Fairmeads claims decision in this respect, they can bring a new complaint to this 
service.
Claim costs
Our investigator thought that Fairmead should remove some claim costs from CUE: - the
£350 compensation previously paid for its handling of the claim; as well as the costs 
incurred for the ineffective repairs that were carried out (excluding its first attempt at 
repair), and the cash settlement later paid to Mr and Mrs O. However, he said that 
Fairmead could include any loss of rent claim. The investigator also thought that Fairmead 
should provide Mr and Mrs O with a breakdown of the claim costs recorded against them.
Fairmead accepted this recommendation and said that only the true cost of the claim 
would show on CUE, though its system would always show the actual spend. However, it 
said that this wouldnt impact Mr and Mrs Os premiums because its underwriters would 
be made aware of the true claim spend.
My understanding is that insurers have to record what they actually spend on a claim 
on CUE, even if this includes costs to put things right that have gone wrong, and any 
compensation paid. I therefore cant require Fairmead to alter what information is 
included on CUE. I appreciate Fairmead said it was willing to do so, but that decision is 
up to Fairmead.
However, if Mr and Mrs O have experienced a financial loss because their premiums since 
2016 have been higher than they otherwise would have been if the true cost of the claim 
had been recorded, then Fairmead should refund any overpayment and add interest to 
this. However, this cant take place until Fairmead has the final claims cost, which wont be until Mr and Mrs O have submitted their loss of rent claim.
For clarity, I agree with our investigator that the true cost of the claim wouldnt include 
compensation for poor handling of the claim, costs incurred for ineffective repairs, and the 
cash settlement later paid to Mr and Mrs O for the repairs (as those repairs are only 
required because Fairmeads contractor wasnt able to carry out an effective repair in the 
first place).
Fairmead says if it transpires that Mr and Mrs O have been undercharged, it will reserve 
the right to increase their premiums. I fail to see how a reduction in claim costs would lead 
to an increase in Mr and Mrs Os premiums, but if thats the case, then it will be up to 
Fairmead if it asks Mr and Mrs O to pay a higher premium.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Fairmead responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. Though it said it would 
like to reserve its right to visit the property on the first date of roof repairs. That is so that it 
can check the repairs needed, and see that they will take place without delay.
Mr and Mrs O didnt provide any further comments.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has objected to my provisional findings, so I see no reason to alter them. I 
therefore remain satisfied that Fairmead ought to deal with the matters as Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Fairmead says it would like to reserve its right to visit the property when the roof repairs 
begin, to check that the repairs are being completed without delay. Fairmead is entitled to 
ask Mr and Mrs O if it can do this, but I dont think its necessary. I cant imagine that Mr and 
Mrs O would allow their contractor to delay the repairs unnecessarily, as this would cost 
them more in repair costs. Fairmead has indicated that the repairs may be delayed 
unnecessarily to increase the loss of rent claim, but given that the property is tenanted, it 
would make no difference to Mr and Mrs O if their tenants pay the rent or Fairmead covers 
them for loss of rent whilst the repairs are taking place. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
Deal with the loss of rent claim in line with the policy terms once the repairs 
have taken place and Mr and Mrs O have demonstrated their loss in this 
respect.
Once the final claims cost is known, it should calculate the true cost of the claim 
as outlined above. If Mr and Mrs O have overpaid any premiums since 2016 as 
a result of the wrong claims cost being recorded against them, then Fairmead 
should refund them the overpayment. It should also add interest to this at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement.Fairmead should then provide Mr and Mrs O with a breakdown of their true 
claim cost, so that it can show other insurers if necessary.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman