DRN-3396011
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with Soteria Insurance Limiteds handling and settlement of a claim she 
made for subsidence damage to her property.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021, explaining that I intended 
to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
 
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claim was initially 
raised in 2010 and has been the subject of a previous complaint with our service. I 
wont be repeating the full history of the complaint, instead Ill focus on what I believe 
to be the key points, based on the evidence and arguments I have seen. This isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role within it. This complaint focuses on Soteria and its agents 
actions from January 2018 to April 2020.
Following a previous final decision from our service, Soteria was required to carry out 
repairs to Ms Hs home in line with the recommendations of a surveyors report she 
obtained. In addition to the insurance related repair works, Ms H employed the 
appointed contractor to carry out some private, non-insurance related works at the 
same time. 
The works commenced in January 2018, but Ms H called a halt to these in February 
2018 as she was unhappy with the quality of some of the repairs. She felt they 
werent in line with the recommendations of the surveyors report. In April 2018 she 
instructed a surveyor to represent her in her claim. Following a site meeting between 
Ms H, her surveyor and the loss adjuster it was confirmed that works were 
progressing as they should be.
The works recommenced but in June 2018 Ms H again asked the contractor to leave 
site as she was still unhappy with the works. In September 2018 Ms H asked for a 
cash settlement as relations with Soterias loss adjuster had broken down and she 
wanted to instruct her own contractor to complete the works.
Soteria didnt agree that the works had been carried out incorrectly. It said the works 
hadnt been finished at the time Ms H asked the contractor to leave and so were 
incomplete as opposed to incorrect. It also highlighted that it was Ms Hs private 
works, rather than the insured works, which were causing delays.
Soteria attempted to visit the site to further inspect the works at various stages, but a 
visit never took place. In January 2019, Ms H obtained a new surveyors report to 
support her view that works were substandard. But Soteria didnt accept the report 
and maintained that a site visit would be needed in order to review the works and 
progress the claim. 
Before a meeting was able to take place, Ms H instructed a new contractor to 
compile a schedule of works covering all the insurance and non-insurance related 
works. She had previously instructed a different contractor to restart the works, but 
she was unhappy with the quality of their work too. In December 2019 Ms H supplied 
the costs for all the works to Soteria and asked it to reimburse for these and for 
alternative accommodation while the works were completed.
Soteria has said that Ms H has prejudiced its position by completing the works 
without allowing it to inspect them first. It says she knew it disputed her concerns with 
both the quality of the works and the proposed costs from her newest contractor. It 
has also pointed out that throughout the claim Ms H has dismissed several sets of 
contractors and surveyors, appointed by either it or herself, which it says has added 
to the delays in the claim. 
Soteria calculated the value of the incomplete works at the time Ms H called a halt to 
repairs and paid this amount plus interest to settle her claim. It also paid £1,500 
compensation as it agreed that its loss adjuster hadnt handled the claim as well as it 
would expect and had contributed to the delays and frustration she had experienced. 
One of our investigators considered Ms Hs complaint, but she didnt think it should 
be upheld. She agreed that Ms H had prejudiced Soterias position by carrying out 
repairs when she knew it disputed the necessity of redoing the majority of the works 
and the costs quoted by her contractor. So, she thought Soterias position on the 
claim was fair. 
Our investigator agreed that the claim hadnt been handled well and that Soteria was 
responsible for some unnecessary delays and communication issues. But she 
thought the £1,500 it had offered was enough to fairly compensate for these issues.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigators assessment. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues I need to decide as part of this complaint. These are 
whether Soteria should reimburse Ms H for the repairs she has had carried out and 
whether or not the compensation it has paid is fair and reasonable. 
Its not in dispute that Ms H carried out works to the property while the quality of 
previous repairs or the cost of subsequent repairs hadnt been agreed. Soteria says 
this was unreasonable and that it prejudiced its ability to fairly assess her concerns 
about the issues she reported. But Ms H says she has provided enough information 
for Soteria to determine that the works were poorly completed and to substantiate the 
costs of putting it right. So, she feels Soteria should meet her costs.
The terms and conditions of Ms Hs policy state:
you should not dispose of damaged items or incur expense in making good 
damage without our consent, except for emergency repairs to prevent further 
loss or damage.So, based on the above, its clear that Ms H has acted outside of the terms of her 
policy by carrying out the repairs without Soterias approval.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence Ms H has provided to show that the works 
werent completed to an appropriate standard. But taking everything into account I 
dont think Soterias position is unreasonable. I say this because it hadnt refused to 
deal with the claim or to put right any repairs which had been completed poorly. It just 
wanted to attend the site to assess these alleged poor repairs first.
Ultimately, Ms H knew that Soteria disputed the fact that all the repairs she had 
complained about had been completed poorly and that it didnt accept the costs she 
had supplied for putting things right. So, by going ahead with repairs without first 
allowing a site visit to go ahead, I agree that she prejudiced Soterias ability to fairly 
assess and settle the claim.
Soteria has paid Ms H a cash settlement of £11,468.94. This is the difference 
between the original amount the repairs were due to cost and the amount it had 
already paid to its contractors. Soteria has also paid 8% interest on this amount from 
October 2018 to the date of settlement, as it believes it should have issued a cash 
settlement in October 2018. Taking everything into account, I think this was a fair and 
reasonable way to settle the remainder of the claim in the particular circumstances 
here. I dont think it would be fair to direct Soteria to pay for repeat repairs when its 
opportunity to inspect the alleged poor works has been taken away.
That said, I note that Soteria accepted that works to the render on the cellar wall and 
works to the electrical installation had been done poorly. It says it asked Ms H to 
obtain quotes for these works for consideration, but these werent received. It also 
says it disagrees with the amounts Ms Hs invoices suggest she ended up paying to 
have these corrected  £6,590 and £2,800 respectively  because it says the 
amounts are excessive and not in line with what it would expect for works of this 
nature.
Ive thought carefully about these particular items. I understand Soteria disagrees 
with the amounts Ms H says she paid to correct these issues. And as Ive stated 
above, I agree that by carrying out the works when she did, Ms H prejudiced 
Soterias position. So, I dont think it would be fair to direct Soteria to pay the 
amounts Ms H is seeking for these issues. However, given that Soteria accepted 
these works were completed poorly, I do think the settlement it paid to Ms H should 
have included an amount to put these issues right.
Ive looked over the original scope of works. This included a figure of £2,145 for the 
cellar and £456.50 for the electrical installation. I realise these are the costs for 
carrying out the works initially, rather than putting right the poor workmanship. But as 
Soteria disputes the costs supplied by Ms H, and is unable to inspect the poor 
workmanship itself, calculating accurate figures will not be possible. So, in the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think the fairest solution is for Soteria to pay 
these costs to Ms H again  in addition to the settlement it has already paid.
Ive also considered the service Ms H received throughout her claim. I can see that 
there were times when communication from the appointed loss adjuster was poor 
and I agree that there was a significant delay in Soteria agreeing to the cash 
settlement when requested. However, I also think there were periods of delay which 
Soteria arent responsible for, such as the times Ms H called a halt to the works, or 
when the loss adjuster was attempting, unsuccessfully, to arrange a site visit.Soteria accepts that the level of service Ms H has experienced hasnt been good 
enough and has paid her £1,500 to compensate for this. Having considered 
everything that happened, I think this amount is sufficient to fairly reflect the impact of 
the issues which Soteria, or its agents, are responsible for.
I explained that I was minded to direct Soteria to pay Ms H the cost of the cellar and 
electrical works, based on the original scope of works.
I asked both sides to provide any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision.
Soteria didnt have anything further it wanted to add. 
Ms H provided a detailed response explaining why she didnt agree that my provisional 
findings were fair. In summary, she said:
The timeline of events stated isnt correct. She agreed to Soteria visiting the site 
numerous times, but the loss adjuster failed to make arrangements.
As she gave opportunities for Soteria to visit, she doesnt agree that she prejudiced 
its position and feels it should cover all of the works, not just those it admitted had 
been completed poorly.
She agrees that Soteria should cover the works it agreed were completed poorly but 
feels it should pay the full costs to her, not the costs I proposed to use to calculate 
the settlement.
Soteria damaged her kitchen during removal and verbally agreed to cover the 
replacement costs, but it has subsequently refused to do so.
She replaced her Victorian floorboards with tongue and groove floorboards which 
were cheaper, but Soteria refused to contribute to the cost of these or their 
installation.
Soteria refused to cover the additional costs she incurred when having the final drain 
survey carried out. She says this was only necessary as Soteria failed to adequately 
repair the drains initially, and so she feels her additional costs should be covered, as 
well as the cost of the survey and repairs.
The points raised by Ms H werent specifically addressed in my provisional decision 
originally. But as they related to whether Soterias overall settlement of her claim was fair, I 
considered them further. This included obtaining further information from both Ms H and 
Soteria to enable me to do so.
I shared my thoughts on these points with both sides and offered them the opportunity to 
comment before moving ahead with my final decision. In summary, I concluded:
Soteria agreed to cover the cost of replacing the damaged sink, subject to evidence 
of Ms Hs costs  and I thought this was fair. But I said Soteria should also add 8% 
interest to the settlement amount from the date Ms H purchased the sink until the 
date she was reimbursed.
Soteria does not need to cover the costs of damage to the kitchen unit or worktop, 
nor does it need to contribute to the costs of a new kitchen.Soteria should cover the costs of replacement floorboards and skirting for Ms Hs 
lounge, as it appears this should have always been included in the costs of the claim. 
Soteria should also pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it cash settled the 
remainder of Ms Hs claim to the date of settlement.
Soteria should cover the cost of replacement of floorboards and skirting for Ms Hs 
hallway, because these needed to be re-excavated to complete the final drainage 
repairs. Soteria should also pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it cash 
settled the remainder of Ms Hs claim to the date of settlement.
Soteria should reimburse Ms H for the final drainage survey she commissioned 
because it was only after she obtained and supplied this that Soteria approved the 
drainage works. Soteria should also add 8% interest to the settlement amount from 
the date Ms H paid for the survey to the date of settlement.
Soteria does not need to cover the full additional alternative accommodation, storage 
and travel costs Ms H has asked for between July 2018 and completion of the works, 
because the primary reason the property was uninhabitable was due to private 
works, not insured works.
Instead, Soteria should pay one additional weeks alternative accommodation and 
travel costs to cover the period of time Ms Hs property would likely have been 
uninhabitable due to the excavation required for the final drainage repairs.
Soteria accepted my amended provisional findings. But it asked for some clarification on 
some of the recommendations above, which Ill address in my findings below.
Ms H provided some further comments for me to consider. And again, Ill address these in 
my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the information provided in response to my provisional decision 
and subsequent responses to Ms Hs additional points.
Ms H has raised several separate points in response to my provisional decision and follow 
on communication with both parties. As with my provisional decision, I wont necessarily 
respond to each and every point raised. Instead Ill focus on what I believe to be the key 
points relevant to deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Hs complaint. This isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either side, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and 
my role within it. 
For ease of reference, Ill address the points I believe to be key, in turn, along with my 
decision in relation to each of those.
Site visit
Ms H has pointed out that she offered Soteria the opportunity to attend her property for an 
inspection on several occasions. She says it was the fault of Soteria, and not herself, that no 
inspection took place.In my provisional decision, my intention wasnt to suggest that Ms H was solely at fault for 
the fact no site inspection was able to take place. Its clear from the communication records 
that she did make some offers to Soteria for a visit. Although I note that one of these offers 
was made with only one day notice for Soteria to attend, which was always going to be 
unlikely to be accepted. There was also an occasion where Ms H insisted on meeting away 
from the property, which Soteria says would have rendered the meeting unproductive given 
that it wanted to inspect the property and the alleged poor workmanship. However, aside 
from these I can see that Ms H did indicate a willingness for a visit to go ahead and that 
communication and administration from Soterias loss adjuster in this respect was not good 
enough.
But that having been said, I can see that Soteria told Ms H that a site visit would be needed 
before it could approve any additional works beyond its initial scope. It said or reiterated this 
on several occasions. And Soteria explained to Ms H that it didnt agree with her suggestions 
of poor workmanship, or the costs she had provided for putting them right. So, I think Soteria 
did enough to make it clear that a site visit would need to take place before any additional 
costs would be approved.
Ive thought carefully about everything that happened. And while I accept that Soterias loss 
adjuster could have done more to arrange and attend a site visit, I also think Ms H could 
have done more to arrange or be available for the same. And ultimately, I think Soteria did 
enough to make it clear to Ms H that a visit was essential before further works could be 
approved. So, by going ahead and completing works when she knew Soteria didnt accept 
their cost, or necessity, I remain of the view that Ms H prejudiced Soterias position. And 
because of this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Soteria to meet all of the 
costs Ms H is seeking to recover.
I also maintain that the £1,500 compensation Soteria has paid to recognise the poor service 
provided by the loss adjuster is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision  so I wont be increasing this amount.
Cellar wall and electrics
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought it would be fair to direct Soteria to pay 
additional amounts to put right the cellar wall and electrical installation issues. I also 
explained why I didnt think it would be fair for it to pay the costs quoted for the works by 
Ms H. Nothing Ms H has said has changed my conclusions on this point. So, my view 
remains, Soteria should pay Ms H the costs outlined on the original scope of works totalling 
£2,145 and £456.50.
In addition, Soteria should pay 8% simple interest on the above amounts from the date it 
cash settled the remainder of Ms Hs claim, to the date of settlement.
Kitchen
Ms H has said that Soterias contractors damaged her kitchen sink and worktop when 
removing it. She says the loss adjuster made a verbal offer to cover the damage, but later 
reneged on that offer.
Soteria has explained that issues like this further support its assertion that a site visit at the 
time was essential to fairly progressing the claim. It has considered the photos Ms H has 
provided but doesnt agree that they are sufficient to evidence that either were damaged by 
its contractors. In addition, it has said that the photos dont seem to show significant damage 
to the worktops, but rather markings, which could likely have been sanded and/or repaired.Soteria has said that even if it had been able to inspect the worktops at the time, and were to 
agree that its contractors most likely caused the damage, it would have been likely to instruct 
a repair firm rather than consider replacement. But as it stands, Soteria doesnt agree that it 
is responsible for covering the costs of replacement kitchen worktops.
Ive thought carefully about this issue, and about the photos provided. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to conclude, on balance, that the 
worktops were damaged by Soterias contractors or that they required replacement. And as 
the worktops have now been disposed of, it wont be possible to obtain further evidence to 
support Ms Hs position. So, in these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to direct Soteria to cover the cost of replacing the worktops.
Soteria has agreed to cover the costs of replacing the damaged sink, subject to being 
provided with evidence of the costs Ms H incurred when replacing it. Ms H has since clarified 
that she only has a temporary sink in situ at the moment. She hasnt yet purchased a 
permanent replacement sink (or kitchen). So, Ms H should provide Soteria with evidence of 
the reasonable costs of a replacement sink, the same or reasonably similar to the old one, 
for consideration, once she has purchased it. And Soteria should still pay 8% interest on the 
settlement amount, from the date Ms H purchases the sink until the date it reimburses her. 
Ms H has also said that Soteria verbally agreed to contribute £3,000 toward the cost of a 
replacement kitchen, but then later reneged on this offer. And that it has refused to cover 
water damage to one of her kitchen units. Nothing in any of the available documentation 
supports that an offer toward a replacement kitchen was made, and Ms H accepts she 
cannot provide anything to support this either. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to direct Soteria to pay toward a replacement kitchen in these circumstances.
I also note that Ms H made the decision for her existing kitchen to be refitted to a knowingly 
wet wall, and that she signed a damage waiver at the time. So, taking everything into 
account, I cant reasonably conclude, on balance, that Soteria was supposed to pay toward 
the cost of a replacement kitchen. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct it 
to cover the costs of water damage to the unit, after Ms H had signed a waiver absolving it of 
responsibility for damage it might suffer once reinstalled.
Additional costs incurred due to drainage repairs
Ms H has maintained that drainage repairs carried out by Soterias agents in 2015 and 2018 
were poor. She says this is why the final drainage repairs in 2019 were needed. Soteria 
disputed this. But in my recent communications I explained that further works were required 
to a certain part of the drainage, which was previously repaired by Soterias agents. So, in 
my view, this indicated that Soterias work wasnt lasting and effective  which is what our 
service would expect from an insurers repair work. However, I also pointed out that Soteria 
had already covered the costs of the final drainage repairs.
In addition to the costs of the final repairs, Ms H has asked to be reimbursed for the cost of 
the final drainage survey she had completed in late 2018  which led to the final drainage 
repairs being completed. I explained to Soteria that it should cover the cost of this survey, 
because it appears this survey prompted it to cover the costs of the final drainage repairs. I 
also said Soteria should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date Ms H was out 
of pocket until the date of settlement. Soteria accepted this recommendation. 
Ms H says that due to the need for further drainage repairs, as a result of ineffective 
previous repairs, she incurred further costs for alternative accommodation, storage of her 
contents and travel.Soteria ceased covering Ms Hs alternative accommodation and associated costs from 
July 2018, because it said it was only Ms Hs private works which were preventing her from 
being able to move back into her home.
Ms H has said that her property remained uninhabitable due to both private and insured 
works. And in particular she says the previous drainage repairs completed by Soteria were 
poor which is why they needed to be redone by her own specialist in 2019. Based on this, 
she wants Soteria to cover the costs she incurred between July 2018 and the date the works 
to her property were concluded.
Given the history of this claim, the number of parties involved, and the fact that numerous 
staff members are no longer employed by the various businesses, its been difficult to 
determine what happened at the time. But the available, contemporaneous evidence Ive 
seen shows that Soteria explained to Ms H that it was the private works which were holding 
up the progress of the repairs in June 2018.
In communications sent to our service as part of this claim, Ms H has said herself that she 
accepted that delays with installing the underfloor heating (private works) was the main issue 
at that time. And the pictures Ive seen, from the time, do seem to show exposed flooring 
and/or underfloor heating equipment which supports that this was likely the reason the 
property wasnt fit to be lived in. But Ms H has recently argued that its unlikely the delays 
with the underfloor heating, explained at the time, could be accurate. She has also 
highlighted that the drainage required further work as well as the electrics. So, she says her 
property would have been uninhabitable in any event  due to some of the insured works.
In situations like this, where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider to be more likely, based on the 
evidence which is available.
I have considered everything Ms H has said and provided. But I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence to show that the works required at the property, due solely to the insurance related 
works, would have rendered the property uninhabitable. And as explained in my provisional 
decision, and above, the quality of most of the works was disputed and this dispute was not 
resolved because no site visit was able to take place. 
Ultimately, the evidence I find the most persuasive regarding this issue are the emails which 
state that the delays were as a result of the private works. This is because these emails are 
from the time of the issues, so I consider them more likely to be an accurate reflection of the 
situation, at that time, than Ms Hs recollections from several years later. So, based on 
everything Ive seen, on balance, I believe that it was the private works rather than insured 
works which caused the timescale to be extended and the property to be uninhabitable.
However, in my recent communication to both sides, I did explain that the final drainage 
repairs required the excavation of the hallway floor. I said this work was only necessary due 
to previous repairs completed by Soteria not being lasting and effective, and that this would 
likely have rendered the property uninhabitable for a period of one week. So, I said Soteria 
should cover one weeks additional accommodation and travel expenses.But Ms H has since explained that she didnt actually incur any costs for additional 
accommodation during this period because she stayed with a friend who refused to accept 
any payment from her. Alternative accommodation cover in an insurance policy is intended 
to cover the reasonable costs of staying in additional accommodation while the policyholder 
is unable to stay in their own property due to an insured event, or the works required to 
repair the damage caused by an insured event. But it isnt designed to pay a monthly cash 
lump sum amount where a policyholder hasnt actually incurred any additional costs because 
of the insured event. So, as Ms H didnt incur any additional accommodation costs, I wont 
be directing Soteria to pay her any further amount for alternative accommodation.
Whilst Im not going to direct Soteria to pay the alternative accommodation being claimed 
for, I still remain of the view that Soteria should pay travel costs, but not for the full period. Ill 
explain why below. 
Ms H says the works to complete the final drainage repair took a month, rather than the one 
week I estimated. She has provided an email chain between her and her drainage specialist 
which she says evidences that this was the case.
I shared this with Soteria for its comments and it didnt agree that the email chain was 
sufficient to evidence the duration of the works. But it said it would be prepared to cover the 
travel costs for a month, if Ms H can provide something from her drainage specialist which 
categorically states how long the works took. I think Soterias position here is fair and 
reasonable. So, should Ms H provide such evidence, Soteria should cover Ms Hs additional 
travel expenses for the full period of time the drainage repairs took.
Soteria has calculated that one weeks additional travel expenses would have been £51.34. 
This is based on the evidence Ms H provided which showed that she incurred £718.70 in 
travel expenses over a three-and-a-half-month period. I think this calculation is fair and 
reasonable to use if Ms H can supply the evidence Soteria requires. If shes unable to, then 
Soteria only needs to pay one week, totalling £51.34. To the amount Soteria reimburses for 
travel costs, it should also add 8% simple interest from the date Ms H was out of pocket, to 
the date of settlement.
I dont think Soteria needs to contribute to the storage costs for this period though, as I dont 
think the additional drainage works, in isolation, would have prevented Ms H from being able 
to store her contents at her property.
Lounge and Hallway floorboards and skirting
As with the habitability of the property and what caused that  insured or uninsured works, 
its been difficult to establish whether replacement floorboards and skirting ought to have 
been included as part of the insured works. This is because there are numerous schedules 
of work, some of which include these items and some which dont. And its no longer 
possible to obtain information from the relevant loss adjuster as he is no longer working for 
the relevant company.
However, from the information available, I explained to Soteria that, on balance, I thought it 
most likely that these items should have been included. I pointed out that there was no 
evidence to support that the materials had been purchased and supplied prior to its final 
cash settlement. And that no amounts for these were included in that final cash settlement 
either. I also pointed out that the hallway flooring and skirting needed to be ripped out in 
order to complete the final drainage repairs.So, I said I was intending to direct Soteria to cover the costs of replacing the floorboards and 
skirting in both the lounge and hallway and that it should pay 8% simple interest on these 
amounts from the date it cash settled the remainder of Ms Hs claim to the date of 
settlement. 
I explained that the amounts Soteria should pay should be based on a costed version of the 
schedule of work provided to Ms H in 2018. This was because it was this schedule of work 
which persuaded me, on balance, that these items should be included in the insured works. 
This schedule of works specified the amount of material required for each item:
Lounge  25 sqm floorboards and 20sqm skirting
Hallway  8.4sqm floorboards and 16.4sqm skirting
Soteria has calculated the costs to replace the skirting, based on this schedule of work, as 
£380.74. To this amount, it will add 8% simple interest from the date it cash settled the 
remainder of Ms Hs claim, to the date of settlement.
For the floorboards, Soteria has said it will reimburse Ms H at £30 per square metre, which is 
the amount Ms H had requested it should pay her, as part of her complaint to our service. 
This amounts to £1,002. To this amount it will add 8% simple interest from the date it cash 
settled the remainder of Ms Hs claim, to the date of settlement.
Soteria has said it will also add VAT to the above, once provided with a VAT receipt.
Ive looked over the calculations for the skirting and I think they are correct and fair. And as 
Soterias offer for the flooring is equal to the amount Ms H herself has requested, I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.
With regard to the floorboards, Ms H has also highlighted that she felt it was unfair for 
Soteria to exclude the cost of sanding and polishing her floorboards from the final 
settlement. But I can confirm that the costs for sanding and polishing were included in the 
£11,468.94 cash settlement she has already received. So, Im not making any further award 
for this.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint in part.
Soteria Insurance Limited must:
Pay Ms H an additional £2,601.50 for the cellar and electric works. To this amount 
add 8% simple interest* from the date it cash settled the remainder of Ms Hs claim, 
to the date of settlement.
Cover the reasonable cost (as Ive explained above) of replacing Ms Hs sink, subject 
to being provided with evidence of the costs incurred. To this amount add 8% simple 
interest* from the date Ms H purchases the sink to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms H £264 for the final drainage survey. To this amount, add 8% simple interest* 
from the date Ms H paid for the survey to the date of settlement
Pay Ms H an additional £1,382.74 for the floorboards and skirting. To this amount 
add 8% simple interest* from the date it cash settled the remainder of Ms Hs claim, 
to the date of settlement.
Pay the travel costs incurred by Ms H during the final drainage repairs at £51.34 per 
week. This is subject to Ms H providing confirmation from the drainage specialist of 
how long the works took. Should Ms H not be able to obtain this, Soteria should pay 
one weeks costs. To this amount add 8% simple interest* from the date Ms H paid 
for the travel to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
*If Soteria Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman