DRN-3769884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined Mrs Ds claim against her 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs D have private medical insurance with AXA. Mrs D 
suffered from painful knees and in July 2021 she saw her GP who referred her to an 
orthopaedic surgeon. She made a claim against her policy and AXA authorised cover for 
an initial consultation, diagnostics and a follow-up consultation. 
In August 2021, the orthopaedic surgeon diagnosed osteoarthritis (OA) in Mrs D's knees 
and recommended sequential knee replacement. In late September 2021, Mrs D 
contacted AXA and told it that she was having a knee replacement in October 2021. 
AXA said that it had made an error in authorising the initial consultation, diagnostics and 
follow-up consultation. It relied on an exclusion which I refer to in more detail below.  
AXA said that the treatment Mrs D required was associated with her rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA) and that further investigations and treatment were excluded from her cover.  
Mr and Mrs D provided AXA with further information but it didnt change its position.    
Mrs D cancelled the operation planned for October 2021 and pursued the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D say that AXA acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. They say that OA 
and RA are different and separate conditions and that theyve provided two medical 
opinions to support their claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator didnt think that AXA had shown that the exclusion 
applies in this case. He said that AXA hadnt shown that Mrs Ds OA was in any way 
related to her RA. The investigator said that AXA should reassess the claim in line with 
the remaining terms of the policy.
Mr and Mrs D agreed with the investigator. They said that as Mrs Ds condition has 
deteriorated they self-funded an operation in October 2022. 
 AXA didnt agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
In assessing risk it excludes associated conditions. 
The exclusion in this case means that treatment for OA or joint deformity are 
excluded. 
A member who has pre-existing RA is more likely to have or develop OA as a 
result. 
When it offers cover on a moratorium basis it excludes conditions associated with 
diabetes, raised blood pressure and investigations following a prostate specific 
antigen test. 
It has provided evidence about the relationship between RA and OA.
Mrs Ds GP said that her pain was aggravating her existing RA. So, the referral 
was for pain related to existing severe arthritis. 
Mrs Ds GPs submission of October 2021 referred to Mrs Ds RA also having 
some effect on her knee pain. 
In order to review the claim it would need to request more detailed medical 
information about Mrs Ds history or RA.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Your cover for existing medical conditions
[.]
Mrs [] D[]
Your policy has been accepted on a continued medical exclusions underwriting basis from 
your previous insurance provider.
No benefit is payable for any investigations and treatment related to rheumatoid arthritis and 
conditions arising therefrom or associated therewith.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that AXA acted 
fairly in declining Mrs Ds claim. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Its clear from the consultant orthopaedic surgeons initial diagnosis of 28 August 
2021 and his supplementary undated report that Mrs Ds pain was caused by OA. He 
said that there was no indication of ongoing RA and whilst Mrs Ds GP had referred 
to RA in passing, the clinical and radiological picture do not support ongoing 
rheumatoid arthritis.AXA seeks to rely on the exclusion Ive set out above. It says that the treatment    
Mrs D required was associated with RA. AXA provided information from its medical 
team which said that degeneration and joint damage can be a complication of RA 
and lead to joint replacement surgery. It says that the exclusion covers not just RA 
but any associated conditions or complications. 
The central question for me to decide is whether Mrs Ds claim was for investigations 
or treatment arising from or associated with RA. Ive noted what AXA has said but 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the investigations and treatment Mrs D 
required for OA in her knees was associated with RA. 
AXA has provided evidence that RA can lead to joint replacement but Ive seen 
nothing to show that Mrs Ds OA was arising from or associated with RA. Whilst    
Mrs Ds GP said in the referral letter of 5 August 2021 that the pain was aggravating 
Mrs Ds existing RA, subsequent investigation by the consultant orthopaedic surgeon 
didnt find ongoing RA. Theres no suggestion that Mrs Ds OA was arising from or 
associated with her RA.
AXA says that when it offers cover on a moratorium basis it excludes conditions 
associated with diabetes, raised blood pressure and investigations following a 
prostate specific antigen test. Thats noted but not directly relevant here. Thats 
because Mrs Ds policy is underwritten on a continued medical exclusions basis and 
AXA didnt specifically exclude OA. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that     
Mrs Ds OA arose from or was associated with her RA.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA acted fairly in declining  
Mrs Ds claim. In order to put things right, AXA should assess the claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy, disregarding the exclusion in relation to conditions 
arising from or associated with RA. AXA says that it will need to request more 
detailed medical information about Mrs Ds history or RA but I think that the time 
for that has passed. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to decide 
now to gather further medical information about Mrs Ds RA. It had an opportunity 
to do that when Mrs D made her claim. 
Mrs D says that she self-funded an operation in October 2022. AXA should 
reimburse the cost of that, subject to the policy terms and limits. Thats because if 
AXA had assessed the claim correctly, Mrs D would have had the benefit of 
cover under the policy. Mrs D has been kept out of the use of her money, so  
AXA should pay interest on the amount of the settlement from the date Mrs D 
made the payment until the date AXA settles the claim. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AXA should reimburse the cost of the operation Mrs D            
self-funded in October 2022, subject to the policy terms and conditions. It should also pay 
interest on the amount of the settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date    
Mrs D made the payment until the date AXA settles the claim. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give      
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I now require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited 
to take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman