DRN-2869160
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
them a packaged bank account, called a FlexPlus account. 
Nationwide charged Mrs C and Mr C a monthly fee for the FlexPlus account and provided 
several potential benefits in return. They think it should refund them all the fees they paid, 
plus interest. 
What happened 
Mrs C and Mr C have been Nationwide customers for quite a long time. Nationwide has 
looked at its records for them and has told us that they opened a fee-free account in 2007, 
that it sold them the FlexPlus account during 2013 and that they went back to a fee-free 
account in February 2021. I expect Nationwides records about this to be reliable, and I have 
taken this account history to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint and didnt think 
that Nationwide had mis-sold the FlexPlus account to them. Mrs C and Mr C didnt agree 
with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has 
come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mrs C and Mr Cs case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs C and Mr C and Nationwide have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment, but first I would like 
to clarify that although this is a joint account, some of the relevant events and 
correspondence may have only directly involved Mrs or Mr C rather than both of them. 
However, for simplicity, I have referred to Mrs C and Mr C jointly throughout this decision. 
In 2013, Nationwide was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts (including FlexPlus 
accounts) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well 
as giving Mrs C and Mr C a choice, I would have expected Nationwide to tell them about the 
FlexPlus accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would also 
have expected it to check their circumstances to see if they needed the benefits which the 
FlexPlus account could provide. 
Both parties have told us that Nationwide sold the FlexPlus account to Mrs C and Mr C 
during a meeting at one of its branches and Nationwide has said that it did so on a non-
advised basis. This was its normal practice at the time, and I have no reason to believe it 
changed these practices for Mrs C and Mr C. So, I have considered this case to be about an 
information-only sale.
As Mrs C and Mr C already  had a fee-free  account  before  Nationwide  sold them  the 
FlexPlus  account  and I havent  seen  anything  to make  me think  it told them  they 
couldnt  keep  this account,  Im satisfied  that it gave  them  a choice.  
In 2013,  the potential  benefits  of the FlexPlus  account  included  travel insurance, mobile 
phone insurance and use of a car breakdown service. Subject to certain conditions, 
customers could also earn interest on their account balance. I think  its highly  likely  that 
Nationwide  told Mrs C and Mr C about  these  benefits.  After  all, it was trying  to sell the 
FlexPlus  account  to them  and it would  have  been  in its own interests  to tell them  what  
the account  could  offer.  I also think  its highly  likely  that Nationwide  told Mrs C and Mr C 
about  the monthly  fees as they would  appear  on Mrs C and Mr Cs statements  and I 
dont  think  that Nationwide  could  have  presented  the FlexPlus  account  as being  free of 
charge.  
Nationwide  has told us that Mrs C and Mr C went  on to claim  on the mobile  phone  
insurance,  call out the car breakdown  service  on multiple  occasions  and to make  three  
claims  on the travel  insurance,  although  not all were  successful.  So, it seems  very likely  
to me that they may have  found  some  of the benefits  potentially  attractive  when  
Nationwide  described  them  during  the meeting.  And although  some  of the benefits,  
such  as the travel  insurance  policy,  had some  limitations  and exclusions,  these  dont  
seem  to have  affected  Mrs C and Mr C adversely.
Mrs C and Mr C have  told us a bit more  about  how they came  to use some  of the 
benefits  of the FlexPlus  account.  For example,  they have  explained  that they had to use 
the car breakdown  service  many  times  due to a single  fault that their garage  struggled  
to fix. I accept  their explanations,  but they are not directly  relevant  to the way 
Nationwide  sold them  the FlexPlus  account.
 
Mrs C and Mr C have  also told us that Nationwide  said that buying  the FlexPlus  account  
would  improve  their credit  score,  which  they now believe  was wrong.  They  have  told us 
that this was the main  reason  they bought  the FlexPlus  account  as at the time they were  
considering  applying  for a loan.  
Before  considering  what  discussions  may have  happened  over the credit  score,  I would  
like to confirm  for Mrs C and Mr C that that their current  belief  is correct.  While  
managing  a bank  account  well (for example,  by staying  in credit  or within  agreed  
overdraft  limits)  can improve  a credit  score,  the type of account  a customer  holds  is not 
usually  a factor.  Nationwide  itself  has said pretty  much  the same  thing.  In some  of its 
recent  correspondence  with Mrs C and Mrs C it said,  Whilst holding a FlexPlus account 
may impact the rates and fees relating to loans and overdrafts, it would not impact our 
decision to offer credit, as this would be based on standard lending criteria.
I accept  that Mrs C and Mr C are doing  their best to remember  what  Nationwide  said to 
them  during  the meeting,  but I find it unlikely  that it misled  them  about  their credit  score  
in the way they have  described;  this would  have  contradicted  both its own position  and 
usual  industry  practice.  I doubt  it did this. 
So, in summary,  Im satisfied  that Nationwide  gave  Mrs C and Mr C a choice  about  the 
FlexPlus  account  and told them  about its benefits  and its cost.  And I dont  think  it misled  
them  that buying  the FlexPlus  account  would  improve  their credit  score.  I dont  think  
Nationwide  mis-sold  the FlexPlus  account  to Mrs C and Mr C. 
My final decision For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint about 
Nationwide Building Society. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman