DRN-4064446
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) defaulted his graduate account.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr S changed his student account to a graduate account with Santander. The
account had an overdraft facility of £2,000, interest free for the first year. In November 2021,
Mr S paid in £1,000. No other credits were paid in up to when the account was defaulted and
transferred to a debt collection agency in June 2022  the balance was then £1,260.
Santander sent Mr S 13 letters to his postal address between December 2021 and July
2022. These included a notice of default dated 13 May 2022. It asked for payment of the
balance of £1,260 within 14 days. Mr S held the same address in Santanders records from
May 2021 to July 2022- when it was last changed.
Mr S complained. He said he had moved address and had been abroad. He hadnt advised
Santander of his new address and so hadnt received any of Santanders letters. He said he
had registered for paperless correspondence  and so he should have had the letters
through that means. But he hadnt. And Santander hadnt tried to contact him by email, text,
or phone either. So  he said that was unfair. He was under the impression that the overdraft
could be repaid over 12 months.
Santander said it was Mr S responsibility to advise them of his change in address. He had
other ways to manage his account, such as though using the app. They didnt uphold Mr S
complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander acted reasonably. He said
Santander could make a commercial decision to close an account if they wished. Mr S
hadnt made regular payments into the account. Santander had said that they sent
collections letters to Mr S postal address. Therefore, he said Santander acted fairly in
placing a default marker on Mr S credit file  as the account had defaulted.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come to me to do that.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
I can see that Mr S transferred his student account to a graduate account in July 2021. He
only paid in one credit for £1,000  in November 2021, and after several withdrawals, an
overdraft of £1,260 resulted. Santander defaulted the account in June 2022 and passed it to
a debt collection agency. Mr S then contacted Santander to find out why that had happened
 he said he hadnt received anything from them; and he should have as he had set up
paperless correspondence. He also said he hadnt received any calls, texts, or emails about
his situation. So - he says it isnt fair that he now had a default against his name on his credit
file.
There are two sides to this complaint. On the one hand, Santander have said that all letters
from their collections department were sent to Mr S address which they held on file. Thats
their normal practice. And Mr S admits he had been travelling abroad for a period and hadnt
updated his UK address with Santander  so it is clear that he didnt get them. And  it is Mr
S' responsibility to advice Santander if he changed his address, and he didnt.
I also looked that the key facts of the graduate account  and this says: Your 1I2I3
Graduate Current Account will last up to two years before it automatically transfers to an
appropriate current account.  and it must be used as your main current account and your
salary must be paid into it. If you dont regularly pay your salary into this current account, we
reserve the right to stop providing some (or all) of the services on your current account, for
example, cancelling any Arranged Overdraft allowance on your current account or closing
your current account. Therefore, because Mr S didnt pay into the account regularly,
Santander were entitled to make demand for payment.
But on the other hand, I looked at how Santander communicated with Mr S. Communications
must be clear and not misleading. Mr S argues that he didnt receive any letters or
correspondence from Santander via its paperless facility  which he had signed up for. Nor
had he received any calls, texts, or emails about his account.
We asked Santander more about this. They confirmed Mr S had registered for webmail 
which I assume is another name for paperless mail. And the Key Facts document for
Santanders graduate account says Going paper-free: Youll receive your documents and
statements by post unless you chose paper-free when you applied for your product or have
switched to paper-free since opening your account. If youve chosen paper-free, your
statements for this product, as well as some of your letters, will be sent to your Document
Store in Online Banking. Youll receive an email when a document is ready to view. For me,
the terms of business say that letters would be sent in paperless format.
Santanders internal records show contact information.Communic. type: complete
correspondence.Communication form: Web Mail. So  it looks to me as if Santander
intended to send everything by paperless means  and I think it was reasonable for Mr S to
assume he wouldve got the letters via this service, but he didnt  or Santander havent
given us evidence that he did.
Even if Santander did send the final Notice of Default letter in May 2022 by post (only) to Mr
S address on file  and if we accept that was a reasonable thing to do - I think it wouldve
been reasonable for them to have sent most of the other letters by paperless means as well
as to his postal address (or instead). For example, between December 2021 and April 2022,
Santander sent nine letters to Mr S postal address  and these were letters asking him to
pay in  with increasing consequences if he didnt. But  they were not default letters or 
letters threatening legal action or similar  they were general letters about how Mr S was
using his account. So  even if I accept that the formal default letter in May 2022 had to be
sent by post, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Santander to send the more general
letters about his account by paperless means  as Mr S had asked for. Mr S could then have
taken to necessary action to correct the position on his account  such as paying in.
Mr S also argues that he received no other contact. We asked Santander about this also and
they couldnt provide any information that theyd tried to call, text or email Mr S during the
period. I think it wouldve been reasonable for them to do so.
Therefore, on the balance of evidence and in the circumstances of what happened here, I
am intending to uphold of Mr Ss complaint. This means that Santander should remove the
default from Mr S credit file; take back the debt from the debt collection agency and agree a
mutually satisfactory repayment programme with Mr S. Given that I think Santander were at
fault here, I think it is also only fair that they also pay compensation of £200 for distress and
inconvenience. As is usual practice, this decision is provisional, and either party may come
forward with further evidence, following which I may change my view, depending on what it
says.Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr S said he accepted the findings and said he had paid off the account. He showed us that 
a payment had been made from his bank account to the debt collection agency. He said this 
showed that the default and mark on his credit file was caused by poor communications, 
rather than any other reason.
Santander didnt agree with the findings. They said:
It was their process to send default letters in paper format to the postal address on 
file and not in paperless form.
It was Mr Ss responsibility to advise them of his change of address.
They showed us the communications that customers see when they opt for paperless 
correspondence. This said that there may be times when we send you documents 
by post even if you are paper-free.
They showed Mr S log on history which showed he logged on through mobile 
banking on 4 May 2022 and he wouldve then seen his overdraft limit had been 
removed.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a finely balanced case, with valid arguments on both sides. Mr S has consistently 
argued his case. And while Santander has followed their processes here, strictly following a 
procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual 
circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here. 
I agree that Mr S shouldve advised Santander of his change of address and accept that 
Santanders process was to send the default letter to his postal address they held. But 
equally, there was no evidence that Santander sent any other of the warning letters by 
paperless means  and there were a good number of them and dated back to well before the 
default. And there werent any other attempts at communication, either by text, email or 
phone. I think it is reasonable to have expected there to have been.
I asked Santander for evidence of what Mr S would be seen when he logged on to his 
account at the time of the default and when the overdraft limit was removed  as Santander 
said he wouldve seen the overdraft had been cancelled. They showed us a screenshot of 
what Mr S would have seen  and he wouldve seen the balance (£1260 debit) and 
overdraft remaining £0 (zero). Santander say that Mr S couldve then worked out that his 
overdraft limit had been cancelled  as it was £2,000 previously. But I dont think its 
reasonable to have expected Mr S to have worked that out  as he hadnt received any other 
communications about his account and would not have expected to see such a piece of 
information or work out what had happened. There wasnt any other message with the 
balance  for example, which said your overdraft has been cancelled or similar.
So, on balance, and in the particular circumstances of everything in this case, Im still 
persuaded that Mr Ss complaint is upheld. The actions required of Santander have changed 
slightly  as Mr S has paid off the debt and therefore theres no need to agree a repayment 
programme with him. Otherwise, the remedies are as I set out before.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:
Remove the default from Mr S credit file.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman