DRN-3032542
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain Ageas Insurance Limited turned down their claim on their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
After finding a number of coping stones had fallen from his roof, Mr O claimed on his home 
insurance. He told Ageas there was wind and rain the night before the stones fell, the part of 
the roof from which they fell was about 25 years old and he didnt think thered been any 
impact with anything.
Ageas turned down Mr O and Mrs Os claim saying there was no storm on the night of the 
damage to the roof, which was most likely caused by wear and tear.
Unhappy with this, Mr O and Mrs O came to us. The investigator who looked at their 
complaint didnt think thered been a storm on the night the damage happened. But she did 
think Ageas should look at the claim again as an accidental damage claim. And she thought 
Ageas should pay Mr O and Mrs O £75 in compensation because it hadnt investigated the 
claim properly.
Ageas disagrees with our investigators findings and so Mr O and Mrs Os complaint has 
come to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr O and Mrs Os complaint. I dont think Ageas has 
treated them fairly and Ill explain why.
When we look at claims for storm damage, our approach is to ask three questions:
Was there a storm?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with a storm?
Was the storm likely to be the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely well require a business to deal with the 
damage under the cover provided for storm. If the answer to any question is no, its likely 
we wont.
Mr O and Mrs Os policy covers them for storm damage. The policy says a storm is where 
there are strong winds over 55 mph or damage by extreme rain, hail or snow. It says rain is 
extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour.
Ive looked at the local weather reports, because typically these give reliable information 
about whether or not theres been a storm. They show that, around the time of the damage, 
the wind speed wasnt strong enough and the rainfall wasnt heavy enough to be a storm for 
the purposes of the policy. That means the answer to the first question Ive listed above is 
no. So I think it was fair and reasonable of Ageas to turn down Mr O and Mrs Os claim as 
a storm damage claim.
But its not only a storm that can cause damage to a roof. And Mr O and Mrs Os policy also 
covered them for accidental damage. The policy says this is damage that is unexpected and 
unintended, caused by something sudden that isnt deliberate. 
Our investigator asked Ageas if it had looked at Mr O and Mrs Os claim under this section of 
cover. It said it had  and decided the damage wasnt covered. The reasons it gives are that 
there was no storm and Mr O had said he didnt think the damage was caused by an impact. 
Ageas also said it hadnt appointed a surveyor to look at Mr O and Mrs Os roof and would 
only have done so if it thought the damage was caused by a storm. Ageas says its for       
Mr O and Mrs O to show an event thats covered by their insurance has happened and it 
hasnt got anything to support this. 
From this, I dont think Ageas has done enough to investigate Mr O and Mrs Os claim as 
possible accidental damage. Mr O referred to wind and rain when he notified Ageas of the 
damage.  Mr O and Mrs O were able to show Ageas that their roof had suffered damage. In 
the circumstances, having turned down a storm damage claim, I think it is reasonable to 
expect Ageas to have investigated whether the damage might be covered under any other 
section of the policy. After all, Ageas is the insurer and it knows the extent of cover              
Mr O and Mrs O have. And on the face of it, the damage to the roof was unexpected and 
unintended, wasnt deliberate and had happened suddenly.
Instead, Ageas has assumed that, because there was no storm and because Mr O says 
there was no impact, the damage was down to wear and tear, which is excluded under the 
policy. But I dont think that Ageas has sufficiently demonstrated the cause of the damage 
was due to wear and tear. It didnt appoint an expert to inspect Mr O and Mrs Os roof, or to 
examine any photographic evidence of the damage, in order to determine what the cause 
was. As a result, my view is that Ageas has not acted fairly and reasonably when assessing 
the claim for damage to the roof.
At Ageas request, our investigator has sent it photos Mr O took of the damage the morning 
after the stones fell off, along with various invoices for work he and Mrs O have had done on 
the roof in recent years. One of these includes the work done to replace the fallen stones (it 
also includes other work thats unconnected to the claim). This should help Ageas re-
consider Mr O and Mrs Os claim and it can contact Mr O and Mrs O if it needs any other 
information for its investigation.
I think Mr O and Mrs O have been upset, annoyed and put to extra trouble because Ageas 
hasnt investigated their claim fully. Like our investigator, I think its fair and reasonable that 
Ageas should pay them £75 for the distress and inconvenience its caused them.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr O and Mrs Os complaint and direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to re-consider their claim as accidental damage in line with the terms and conditions 
of their policy. It should also pay them £75 for the distress and inconvenience its failure to 
investigate their claim fully so far has caused them.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman