DRN-2951354
The complaint
Mr H believes Madison CF UK Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan hed applied 
for.
What happened
On 9 March 2016, Mr H took out a £1,100 loan with Madison, to be repaid over 24 months 
with monthly repayments of £87.73. Mr H fell behind with the payments on the loan and 
stopped paying altogether in May 2017. Because of this, Madison transferred the account to 
a debt collection agency.
Mr H has complained that Madison didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. Hes 
said the loan wasnt affordable at the time, as he had several outstanding payday loans. 
Madison didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Mr H brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
When approving the loan, Madison asked Mr H for details of his income and expenditure, 
and considered the information showing on his credit file at the time. Our investigator said 
that the information on the credit file didnt match with what Mr H had declared, so she 
thought Madison shouldve taken further steps to verify the information Mr H provided.
The investigator reviewed Mr Hs bank statements from the time of the application to 
establish his expenditure. And, given that Mr H was using the loan from Madison to 
consolidate most of his existing credit commitments, she said that Mr H had sufficient 
disposable monthly income to support all of his outgoings and the payment to Madison.
So the investigator said that, if Madison had carried out sufficient and appropriate checks, 
then they would most likely have seen the agreement was affordable to Mr H. So she didnt 
think Madison had acted irresponsibly by agreeing the finance.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed had other similar cases judged in his favour, so he was 
surprised that this one wasnt as well. He said that, at the time of the application I likely 
submitted different numbers/amounts on the form out of desperation to be accepted and he 
believed there were other missed payments showing on his credit file that havent been 
taken into consideration. 
Mr H also said that, because he was on a zero hours contract, his take-home pay changed 
frequently, which made it difficult for him to get his debts under control. Because Mr H didnt 
agree, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Madison complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Madison make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Madison didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Hs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Madison complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit file Madison checked when they assessed Mr Hs application. 
This shows Mr H had three payday loans, with a total outstanding balance of £287 and total 
monthly payments of £150; three credit cards with a total outstanding balance of £1,028; and 
an overdraft of £1,077. One of the credit cards was two payments in arrears, but everything 
else had been kept up to date.
The credit file also showed that, between January 2016 and February 2016, Mr H had had 
another 32 short term payday loans. All of these had been settled and, with the exception of 
one missed payment on one loan, all of the payments had been made.
Mr H has said that he believed his credit files showed a worse situation than two missed 
payments on a credit card at the time of his application. Ans Mr H has provided a copy of his 
credit file from April 2021. Ive looked at the historical data on this, to see what the reported 
position wouldve been in February 2016. And this only shows two months missed payments 
on the credit card. And it doesnt show any credit commitments that werent on the credit file 
that Madison used. So Im satisfied that the credit file Madison used is reasonable to rely on.
Ive also seen the income and expenditure details Mr H supplied as part of his application. 
This said he had a net monthly income of £1,259; paid his parents £150 a month for board, 
spent £100 a month on food; and paid £75 a month to his credit commitments.
While Mr H had missed payments within the last 12-months, different lenders have different 
criteria. So I wouldnt expect Madison to have declined the loan for this reason. But I 
wouldve expected them to take this into consideration when making any lending decision.
Mr H said he only paid £75 a month to his credit commitments, but the credit file shows that 
he was committed to pay £150 to his loans, as well as minimum payments to his credit 
cards. And the credit file indicates Mr H had recently been reliant upon short term lending. 
Taking all of this into consideration, even though Mr H said he was borrowing the money to 
consolidate his existing debts; Id have expected Madison to carry out additional checks to 
satisfy themselves that approving the loan would be reasonable and proportionate.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
The main additional check Id expect Madison to have done is to have asked Mr H about his 
commitments and other expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of 
application, and to see that affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of the 
lending. This couldve been done by a number of methods, and I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Madison to have asked Mr H for copies of his bank statements.
However, Mr H has provided a breakdown of his bank statements for the period 4 January to 
30 December 2016. He signed the agreement with Madison on 9 March 2016 so, in the 
absence of anything else, I think these statements give a good indication of what Madison 
would likely have discovered if theyd asked about Mr Hs expenditure at the time.
The bank statements for 4 January to 4 March 2016 show that Mr H was picking up an 
average of £266.81 a week from his employment  the equivalent of £1,156.17 a month. Im 
aware that Mr H has said he was on a zero hours contract, and his wages werent 
guaranteed, but the bank statements hes provided show that he continued to pick up a 
similar amount (or more) most weeks, from March to December 2016. 
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Mr H ever made Madison aware that 
he was on a zero hours contract. And I cant say that Madison did anything wrong by not 
taking into consideration something they were unaware of.
Mr H was living at home at the time of the application, and his bank statements show that he 
paid £160 board. They also show that he paid £41.47 a month for his phone bill, and £12 a 
month in overdraft charges. This left him with £942.70 a month to pay his existing credit 
commitments, the loan from Madison, and any other discretionary spending.
The bank statements show a large number of payments to payday loan providers in January 
2016, reducing in February 2016. And the credit file shows that, at the time of application, 
most of these were all paid off. However, Mr H still had payments to three payday loans - 
£52 a month (with £52 outstanding), £44 a month (with £112 outstanding) and £54 a month 
(with £123 outstanding). He also owed £1,028 on credit cards  a 5% minimum payment on 
this balance would be £51.40 a month. 
While Mr H said he intended to use the loan to repay his existing credit commitments, theres 
no guarantee that he wouldve done so. So I think its reasonable to assume, for expenditure 
calculation purposes, that Mr Hs existing credit commitments would remain at £201.40 a 
month. Allowing for this, and the payment of £87.73 to Madison, Mr H wouldve been left with 
£653.57 a month  more than 50% of his income  from which to pay for any food, clothing 
and other discretionary spending. 
So Im satisfied that this loan was affordable to Mr H at the time.
Mr H has said that other loans hes taken out with other providers at other times have been 
determined to be irresponsibly agreed, so he feels that this loan should be as well. But we 
look at each individual case on its merits, and what mayve happened at a different time, with 
a different provider, and different circumstances, dont affect the outcome of this case. 
And, for the reasons stated, Im satisfied that, had Madison carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, they wouldve seen that the finance was affordable. So, they didnt act 
irresponsibly when approving the loan. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I havent seen anything to make me think Madison acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Madison CF UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman