DRN-2135174
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way that account balances are displayed online by National 
Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest). 
What happened
Mr L made a number of faster payment transfers into, and out of, his Natwest current 
account between 25 and 27 December 2019. Mr L first transferred funds from another 
account into his Natwest account. Once they were showing under his todays balance 
online, he then paid them out. 
Natwest say that because of the bank holidays, the payment that was initiated by Mr L on 25 
December wasnt processed by the other bank until 27 December. Then, again because of 
bank holidays, this wasnt credited to Mr Ls account by Natwest until 30 December. 
Mr L received a text alert from Natwest on 30 December to tell him he was in his overdraft. 
This prompted Mr L to call Natwest, and they told him that he wasnt in his overdraft. Mr L 
then received a letter from Natwest on 09 January 2020 confirming that he was in his 
overdraft between 27 and 30 December, and so there would be a fee and a charge for using 
this service. 
Mr L complained to Natwest about the charge. Natwest investigated Mr Ls complaint and 
upheld it because of the information he was given over the phone. Because hed been told 
that he wasnt in his overdraft when he called on 30 December, they put a stop on the fee 
and interest for using the overdraft. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Natwests response and brought his complaint to this service. Mr L is 
unhappy that Natwest havent investigated how the balances are displayed. He says that his 
complaint is to help Natwest improve its service to other customers. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L and didnt think that Natwest needed to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ls complaint. Mr L has asked for an ombudsman review, he 
remains unhappy with how Natwest dealt with his complaint. He wants them to investigate 
properly and improve their systems to give better clarity to customers.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its clear that Mr L was given conflicting information about his overdraft when he called 
Natwest. By putting a stop on the charges, Natwest have done what I would expect them to 
do to put this right. Mr L has confirmed that this action was a satisfactory resolution of his 
dispute with Natwest. 
Mr L has mentioned the seriousness with which Natwest treated his concerns, and how it 
displays account balances. I understand the strength of Mr Ls feelings on the matter, and 
his intention to help future customers avoid confusion. 
Ive no reason to think the bank treated Mr Ls concerns lightly. It accepted it gave him 
conflicting messages about whether the account was overdrawn, and that this shouldnt 
have happened. It also ensured it didnt charge him. But in light of Mr Ls comments, its 
important that I clarify that there are limits to our scheme.
I have power to require businesses to compensate for loss or material distress or 
inconvenience, and to direct a business to take action in relation to an individual. However, I 
dont have the ability to order a business to change its practices or systems in a more 
general way.
Mr L is now aware of the way in which Natwests running balance operates, and as a result 
he is better placed to manage his account effectively to avoid the possibility of going 
overdrawn. Im not persuaded that any further direction from me is necessary in order to 
assist him with this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require Natwest to take any 
further action to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman