DRN-3890801
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc did not uphold his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund of his purchase of some flights.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr D purchased airline tickets for himself and his wife, and paid £395.94 for 
them with his Santander credit card. The flights were scheduled for May, but meanwhile his 
wife became very ill and was not well enough to travel. In April, Mr D rescheduled the flights 
by moving them to September, and to do so he paid a fee of £163.98. But in July he realised 
that his wife would still not be well enough to travel, and so he asked the airline for a refund.
The airline told Mr D that the tickets were not refundable. Mr D referred the airline to its own 
terms and conditions, which said that tickets were refundable in the event of a passengers 
serious illness. But after getting nowhere with the airline, he asked Santander to refund him 
under section 75.
Santander did not agree that it was liable under section 75. It said that under that section it is 
only liable for a breach of contract by the airline, and the airline had not breached its contract 
with Mr D. It said that the airlines terms and conditions did not guarantee a refund, only that 
the airline may issue a refund at its discretion, and only if medical evidence is supplied 
before the date of the flight. Being dissatisfied with that answer, which he regarded as only a 
technicality, Mr D brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that the airlines response to Mr D had not 
taken into account the relevant clause of its terms and conditions, and had only said that its 
tickets are not refundable. He said that based on Mr Ds evidence, the airline should have 
refunded him. He recommended that Santander refund the original cost of the tickets, but 
not the rescheduling fee.
Santander did not agree. It pointed out that the relevant clause said that the airline could 
either pay a refund or, instead, waive the fee for rebooking the flights. It argued that the 
airline had satisfied that clause by allowing Mr D to reschedule the flights, and that the airline 
hadnt waived the rescheduling fee because in April Mr D had not yet told the airline about 
his wifes condition. Santander re-iterated that a refund was not guaranteed. It added that 
the medical evidence provided by Mr D was dated June 2022, and this did not necessarily 
prove that his wife would have still been unable to fly in September. It concluded that the 
airline had not been in breach of contract, and asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragraph 10.1 of the airlines terms and conditions says that all amounts paid for flights are 
non-refundable, except where paragraph 10.4 applies. Paragraph 10.4 reads:
If someone on your booking becomes seriously ill and is unable to travel, or if they 
pass away before your trip, [we] may:
refund you the total amount for everyone travelling on your booking; or, if 
appropriate,
waive the flight change fee, along with any restrictions associated with changing 
your flights.
You must supply suitable evidence of the serious illness or death before the date 
you were due to travel.
Mr D regards the use of the word may, instead of shall, as a mere technicality, but 
I cannot agree with that. If the clause does not require the airline to refund him, but only 
leaves it to the airlines discretion, then it cannot be a breach of contract if the airline 
exercises its choice not to refund him. That is specifically allowed by the contract.
However, I do not think that is the end of the matter. I think that if the airline declines a 
refund under paragraph 10.1 in circumstances where that clause does not apply  that is, 
where the amount paid is refundable under paragraph 10.4  then that would be a breach of 
contract, even though the airline could have declined a refund under the latter clause. That 
would not be an exercise of the airlines discretion to refuse a refund under paragraph 10.4, 
but rather the misapplication of paragraph 10.1 in circumstances where it does not even 
apply.
It therefore matters whether the airline rejected Mr Ds request for a refund under paragraph 
10.1 or under 10.4, and whether it did so under the right paragraph. Paragraph 10.1 is about 
non-refundable amounts, and paragraph 10.4 is about refundable amounts. There is no 
overlap between them; either one paragraph applies, or the other.
I have read the airlines emails to Mr D, both dated 18 July 2022, in response to his request. 
The first one says:
I cannot process your request for a refund in this case. We regret to inform you that 
Ryanair tickets are not refundable. This is clearly stated in our Terms and 
Conditions.
That is clearly a reference to paragraph 10.1, which was misconceived. The airline had no 
power to decline a refund under that paragraph. I am satisfied that paragraph 10.4 applied, 
because Mr Ds wife had become seriously ill and unable to travel, and he had supplied 
suitable evidence of the illness before the date they were due to travel. (The evidence was 
provided in July, ahead of the rescheduled flights in September.) The flights were therefore 
refundable, but the airline treated them as non-refundable. Im satisfied that this was a 
breach of contract, because the airline declined the refund in breach of its terms and 
conditions.
However, in its second email, the airline said:
We are not in a position to process your refund request based on the 
documentation you have provided.
That reference to Mr Ds documentation can only mean the medical evidence he had sent it. 
If taken on its own, that sentence could suggest that the airline had reconsidered its decision 
and had this time made it under the correct paragraph. I think the airline would have been 
entitled to do that, under paragraph 10.4, as the medical evidence was not conclusive. As 
Santander has pointed out, this evidence, dated 27 June 2022, does not address whether Mr Ds wife would have been well enough to fly three months later. I therefore considered 
rejecting this complaint for that reason.
But the airlines same email also says (in the previous sentence):
We regret that our position as set out in the letter dated 18/7/22 remains unaltered. 
That wording suggests that the airline had not reconsidered, but was only doubling down on 
its original and erroneous stance, as given in the previous correspondence.
I think that when this email is taken as a whole, it is ambiguous, in that the airline appears to 
rely on both paragraphs 10.1 and 10.4, which it certainly cannot do, as they are mutually 
exclusive. As the onus was on the airline to be clear, I think it is fair and reasonable for me to 
resolve that ambiguity in favour of Mr D.
So for all of these reasons, I have concluded on the balance of probabilities that the airline 
probably declined Mr Ds claim under the wrong clause, paragraph 10.1, even though his 
claim for a refund was about a refundable amount. Although it would have been open to the 
airline to decline his claim under paragraph 10.4, Im satisfied that it did not do so. It follows 
that the airlines decision to reject his claim was a breach of contract, because that decision 
was not made in accordance with the terms and conditions. Santander is liable for that under 
section 75.
I will therefore require Santander to refund the original price of the flights, but not the cost of 
rescheduling them, because paragraph 10.4 does not say that he is entitled to both.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr D £395.94, 
plus simple interest on that amount at the rate of eight percent a year from 18 July 2022 to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman