DRN-3955692
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the £2,500 she lost after falling victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In October 2021 Miss P met someone on a dating app who persuaded her to invest 
money into cryptocurrency. But it actually turned out to be a scam. She lost £7,500 in 
total. £2,500 of this was sent via two faster payments from her Monzo account to a third 
party account held with another bank which was, presumably, under the scammers 
control.
Miss P reported the scam to Monzo but it refused to reimburse her because it said she 
was given an effective warning, but she didnt carry out sufficient checks before making 
the payments. It also tried to reclaim the money from the receiving bank, but Miss Ps 
money had already left the account.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, setting out why I proposed to uphold the 
complaint in part. I said the following in my provisional findings.
Miss P doesnt dispute that she made the two payments from her Monzo account. This 
means they were authorised by her. So the starting point under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Miss P is responsible for the 
payments as well as any resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Miss P should have received 
a refund of the money she lost under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the Code). The Code is designed to reimburse victims of authorised push payment 
scams. Monzo had signed up to the Code and it was in force when Miss P made the 
payments. This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are 
victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances.
The exceptions relevant to this case are:
 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods 
or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
Overall, I currently think Monzo has done enough to establish that Miss P didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the person she was sending money to was legitimate. I say 
this having taken the following into account:
When making the payments, Miss P relied solely on the advice from someone she met 
through an online dating site (who I will call J) only a week or so before. She hadnt met 
or spoken with J in person because, when Miss P asked, he said he was out of the 
country. J spent some time building Miss Ps trust by talking about personal matters. But 
he also started talking about cryptocurrency investments and suggesting she invest 
relatively quickly. 
Miss P didnt carry out any independent checks to verify what she was being told by J. 
She took what J was saying at face value, acted on this and placed a lot of trust in a 
person that she didnt really know.
The two payments from her Monzo account were the last Miss P sent before becoming 
suspicious about the situation, after her flatmate raised concerns. Prior to making these 
payments she had tried to send money directly to the intended destination from longer-
standing accounts shed held with other banks. Those banks had blocked some of her 
payments and Miss P accepted all of Js suggestions about how to move money around 
in order to avoid the blocks. But I dont think Js explanations  including that this was to 
avoid taxes  entirely add up. And some of Miss Ps comments also suggest she had 
doubts. Amongst other things she notes that everyday you are telling me something 
different and I know you are trying to help me but its stressing me out trying to keep 
doing all these different things and my bank not doing it.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo met its standards under the Code. 
Miss P had only opened the Monzo account a day or so before she sent the two payments. 
Shed transferred £2,500 in from an account she held with another bank. Soon after the 
money arrived in her account she set up a new payee and transferred £2,059 out. I think that 
sort of activity on this sort of account bears the hallmarks of someone falling victim to a scam 
and ought to have triggered a scam warning. Monzo seems to agree and argues that the 
warnings it gave were effective. But I disagree.
Monzo says Miss P would have been shown a high-friction APP warning, but hasnt shown 
me what this would have said. Miss P then selected the goods and services payment 
option  as prompted by J  and I dont think the warning she was shown as a result was 
effective as the circumstances it describes didnt mirror her own. So it cant fairly be argued 
that Miss P ignored an effective warning.
Monzo says it didnt give any warnings when the second payment was made. It was for a 
lower amount, only £441, but it was made to the same payee within 10 minutes of the first 
payment. In the circumstances and given what Ive said already about the first payment, I 
currently think this ought to have triggered a warning too.
Im currently satisfied that when Monzo was made aware of what had happened it acted 
appropriately and tried to recover the funds, although none remained.
Overall, as both parties ought to have done more here, I currently consider a fair outcome in 
this case would be for Monzo to reimburse 50% of both payments.
Putting things right 
For the reasons outlined above, I currently think Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
Refund 50% of the two payments Miss P made from her Monzo account  a total of 
£1,250.Add interest on the above refund at the originating account rate from the date the 
payments left Miss Ps Monzo account to the date of settlement. If the originating 
account was not interest-bearing then no interest should be paid.
With the above in mind, its not currently clear where the £2,500 originated. It was sent, I 
believe, from a current account with another bank but may have been transferred into that 
account from a savings account. I think its more likely than not that, if Miss P hadnt fallen 
victim to this scam, she wouldve left that money in that original account.
I ask Miss P, in her response to this provisional decision, to provide evidence (such as bank 
statements) that show where the £2,500 originated and any transfers that happened prior to 
the transfer into her Monzo account. If Miss P doesnt provide this evidence then I will likely 
award no interest.
Miss P provided a bank statement in response to my provisional decision and seemed to 
accept my findings. Monzo didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has sent any new evidence or arguments for me to 
consider about the disputed transactions, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
.
Ive considered the bank statement Miss P has provided in order to decide how Monzo 
should put things right. This showed the account usually carried a large balance  in excess 
of the £2,500 lost to this scam  and was not interest-bearing. Given what Miss P told us 
about the scam, I dont think its likely she would have otherwise spent this money or earned 
interest on it. So Im not instructing Monzo to pay interest on the 50% refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay 
£1,250 to Miss P..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman