DRN-3385885
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) removed the overdraft attached to her 
account after a repayment plan ended.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss M contacted BOS to let it know she was struggling to pay the 
arranged overdraft charges being applied to her current account. This was due to a change 
in her financial circumstances. BOS removed the arranged overdraft and replaced it with a 
temporary overdraft. It also agreed to a three-month repayment plan with Miss M to help her 
repay the temporary overdraft balance. As part of the repayment plan, BOS stopped 
charging interest and fees to the account and reduced the overdraft each month by £10. 
Miss M complained to BOS and said she was unaware her overdraft would reduce by £10 a 
month or that BOS was no longer deducting interest from her account. She said when she 
set up the repayment plan, she was suffering with mental health issues, but BOS didnt 
check if she had the capacity to continue and understand what was happening. She said as 
a result of the stress caused when her overdraft was removed, she had to take medication. 
She said she wanted BOS to pay her more compensation and to remove any negative 
information it had reported to credit reference agencies.
BOS looked into Miss Ms complaint in May 2020 but didnt uphold her complaint. It said the 
repayment plan had been set up correctly and because Miss M didnt contact it when the 
repayment plan ended, it correctly removed the overdraft from her account. Unhappy with 
this response, Miss M referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint but didnt think BOS did anything wrong. 
She said payments were made into the account which regularly cleared the overdraft. And 
she said when Miss M contacted BOS to let it know her financial circumstances had 
changed, it placed a hold on the account and set up a repayment plan. So she said she 
thought BOS had acted fair and reasonably in response to Miss M making it aware her 
financial circumstances had changed. 
Miss M disagreed and said she wasnt unhappy with the charges BOS had applied whilst 
she used her overdraft. Instead she said she was unhappy that BOS removed her overdraft 
without prior notification. She said this put her into financial hardship as she was receiving a 
reduced income at the time.
Our adjudicator reviewed Miss Ms complaint again, but thought that BOS had told Miss M 
the temporary overdraft limit would gradually be reduced. She said BOS told Miss M if she 
didnt get in touch with it at the end of the repayment plan, the temporary overdraft would be 
removed. She said because Miss M didnt do this, she didnt think BOS did anything wrong 
when it removed the temporary overdraft facility.
Miss M disagreed and said that BOS should have been aware she was vulnerable at the 
time it set up the repayment plan. She said the removal of the overdraft left her in financial 
difficulties. 
As Miss M remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has said she isnt complaining about the overdraft charges applied to her account by 
BOS prior to the facility being removed. So I havent considered these charges in this 
decision. That said, Ive looked at whether I think BOS acted fair and reasonably when it 
removed Miss Ms temporary overdraft. Having done so, I think it did. Ill explain why.
Miss M has said she wasnt aware the temporary overdraft would be removed if she didnt 
contact BOS at the end of the repayment plan and this action left her in financial difficulties. 
However, BOS was entitled to remove the overdraft at any point as it was repayable on 
demand. And I can see that BOS did tell Miss M about the temporary overdraft being 
gradually reduced during a call in January 2020. As it was only ever a temporary facility, 
there was no intention for it to say in place long term. BOS also told Miss M it would remove 
the temporary overdraft if it didnt hear from her after the repayment plan had ended. Miss M 
agreed to these terms. BOS also sent a letter to confirm the terms of the repayment plan to 
Miss M following the call. And because Miss M didnt contact it at the end of the repayment 
plan, the overdraft was removed. So Im satisfied BOS told Miss M that it would remove the 
overdraft when it did and in line with when it was required to.
I appreciate Miss M is unhappy with this and has said she was vulnerable at the time the 
repayment plan was agreed. Ive looked at the notes from the call. There isnt anything in the 
notes which suggest that Miss M had mental health issues or that she was vulnerable at the 
time the repayment plan was set. I also dont think there was anything which ought 
reasonably to have alerted BOS to these matters either. So I dont think BOS acted unfairly 
when it removed the temporary overdraft. 
Ive also thought about whether BOS ought to reasonably have been aware that removing 
the temporary overdraft would put Miss M into financial difficulty. 
Miss M told BOS in January 2020 she would be going back to work in April 2020 and shed 
be able to maintain payments from then. She also told BOS whilst she wasnt working, a 
relative would maintain repayments on the account. On this basis, I dont think BOS had any 
reason to suspect the removal of the temporary overdraft would leave Miss M in financial 
difficulty.
In addition, while I would have expected BOS to continue monitoring Miss Ms account 
bearing in mind what she said in January 2020, Ive looked at Miss Ms statements. I can see 
that whilst the repayment plan was in place, Miss Ms account activity from April 2020 
onwards doesnt indicate that she was experiencing ongoing financial difficulty. The 
statements show Miss Ms account in credit, bar a couple of occasions. And on the couple of 
occasions she did make use of her overdraft, she transferred in funds from another account 
she held on the same day, so her account fell back into credit. Since the overdraft has been 
removed, Miss M has maintained a credit balance and is receiving regular payments into the 
account.
I also note that when Miss M complained about the temporary overdraft being removed, 
BOS offered her some options so she would still have access to cash, despite the temporary 
overdraft being removed. It also applied a 30-day breathing space. I think it was reasonable 
for it to do this given Miss M had told it she was in financial difficulty.
Overall, because BOS didnt hear from Miss M and as it had been told Miss M would be 
starting work from April 2020, I think it was fair for it to remove the overdraft when it did, as it 
had no reason to suspect Miss M was still in financial difficulties. And as Ive explained 
before, this was never intended to be anything more than a temporary arrangement at the 
outset. So Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.  My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman