DRN-2828520
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the advice she received from a predecessor company of Phoenix 
Life Limited in 1981 to open an investment account. To keep things simple, Ill refer to the 
business as Phoenix Life in the rest of this decision.
What happened
In 1981, Mrs C took advice from Phoenix Life about opening what was called a Ten Plus 
Plan. The plan enabled investors to make regular contributions and could be used as a 
type of pension. Contributions made could attract tax relief and the plan included life 
assurance.
In March 1998, Mrs Cs family wrote to Phoenix Life, on Mrs Cs behalf, complaining that 
the plan had been mis-sold.  
In June 1998, Phoenix Life responded and informed Mrs C that she could contact the 
Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau (PIA) if she wanted to pursue her 
complaint further. I understand Mrs C didnt take matters further then.
In 1999, Mrs C took her benefits from the plan.
In 2019, Mrs C complained to Phoenix Life again about the advice she received in 1981 to 
open the Ten Plus Plan. Phoenix Life responded in October 2019, stating that in its view, this 
was the same complaint as made in 1998, so the matter wouldnt be looked at again.
Mrs C didnt agree and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked in to Mrs Cs complaint. She found it was within our jurisdiction to 
investigate. Phoenix Life agreed. The investigator considered the merits of Mrs Cs 
complaint and recommended it was not upheld. In summary, she concluded that the advice 
Mrs C received at the time of sale didnt look inappropriate for her needs.
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators view and so her complaint has been passed to me to 
issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her written view, our investigator explained the regulatory regime that applied at the 
time of sale back in 1981. Ill explain that again here. 
Regulatory regime in 1981
The Financial Services Act 1986 came into force on 29 April 1988 (also known as A-
Day). After 29 April 1988, any financial advice given had to be recorded and a fact find 
conducted to establish the customers circumstances and objectives. Any advice given 
had to be suitable for the customer and financial advisers had to evidence this.
Prior to this date, as was the case in 1981 when Mrs Cs plan was sold, financial advisers 
didnt have to document things in the same way, consider alternative pension options or 
complete a fact find when providing financial advice.
The adviser at the time only needed to ensure the product recommended was appropriate 
for the customer. Financial advisers werent required to make comparisons with alternative 
options.
When considering a complaint, we need to look at the requirements imposed by the 
regulatory regime that applied at that time of sale. 
Available paperwork from the time of sale
Given how long ago this sale took place, and that Mrs C took her benefits in 1999, its 
not unsurprising that Phoenix Life no longer holds much paperwork regarding the sale 
of Mrs Cs plan. Businesses often only keep records for six years. As Ive also 
mentioned, there may not have been much by way of background paperwork from the 
time of sale in any event, due to the lighter touch regime that applied at that time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
This will include looking at what Mrs C recalls from the time of sale and the paperwork she 
has from the time. Ive also taken into account that this sale took place around forty years 
ago, and memories also can fade over time.
Mrs C said that she spoke only a little English at the time of sale and she wouldnt 
have been able to understand everything the adviser told her. I accept that may have 
been the case, but like our investigator pointed out, that doesnt necessarily mean that 
Mrs C must have been mis-sold this policy. Also, there was some onus on her to make 
sure she put herself in a position that she could make an informed choice about the 
advice she was being given.
Ten Plus Policy
In 1981, at the time of the advice, Mrs C was self-employed, so she didnt have any 
alternative pension options available to her through an employer. So, I cant see that 
setting up a plan in order to provide her with some retirement provision was an 
inappropriate decision based on her circumstances at the time of sale.
When the plan reached its ten year anniversary, I can see that Mrs C was sent a letter 
in May 1991 asking her to review her options going forward, as the plan had reached 
the end of its first ten years. So, I think Phoenix Life did what it was required to do, to 
flag up her options at the end of the first ten-year period. 
Mrs C said she was advised to stop paying into the Ten Plus Plan two years after it was 
set up and advised to start a new plan. However, it seems that Mrs Cs plan ran for the 
full ten years and beyond as she didnt take her benefits until 1999.
Mrs Cs also said that the plans investment policy was not aligned to her personal risk 
profile. Mrs C was, however, invested in the property fund from inception, which was seen 
as a low risk fund. As Mrs Cs said that her risk tolerance was low, I cant see that the fund 
was inappropriate either.Mrs C was initially concerned that her plan did not increase in value. However, Phoenix Life 
said that across the term of her policy Mrs C paid in £5,742.40 and when she took her 
benefits in 1999 the plan was worth £11,671.69. I can see that Mrs Cs family said that she 
paid in more, however I think its possible the difference here may relate to scheme 
administration costs. 
So, I cant see that the advice Mrs C received in 1981 to invest in the Ten Plus Plan was 
inappropriate for her circumstances at the time of sale. So, it follows that I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman