DRN-3489695
The complaint
Mrs B complains that when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) provided poor service, leading to a long delay with a windscreen repair. 
What happened
Mrs B had a motor accident. Between that date and having her car repaired by garage V, 
the cars windscreen was damaged and needed replacing. Garage V told Mrs B to contact 
UKI about it and she did so on 7 July 2021. UKI arranged to have the windscreen repair 
done by firm A - despite garage V having pointed out that firm A couldnt carry out the full 
job, as the windscreen would need to be calibrated elsewhere. 
The car was to be collected on 24 August 20021, but due to a system error, the recovery 
was attempted the next day, when Mrs B needed the car. She drove the car to firm A on 30 
August 2021 instead. On arrival, she was told that it could replace the windscreen, but that 
the car would have to go elsewhere for it to be calibrated. Mrs B was also told that if the 
windscreen was replaced, the car wouldnt be safe to drive, as its sensors wouldnt work.
Mrs B was frustrated by these events and by the fact that she had to make numerous calls to 
UKI from 7 July 2021 about the repair. UKI upheld her complaint in September 2021. It 
agreed that contact with her had been poor and that there was undue delay in arranging for 
the windscreen repair to be done. It offered Mrs B £150 compensation. She didnt think it 
was enough, given the amount of inconvenience shed faced, the frustration caused by UKIs 
claims-handling and the fact that shed had to take time off work pointlessly. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Bs complaint and said UKI should pay her a further 
£100 compensation. UKI said it agreed its service was poor up to 24 August 2021. And it 
said Mrs B would have been given a hire car if the calibration had to be done later. The 
investigator said the windscreen repair should have been booked with garage V from the 
start. UKI said firm A had just explained to it that the car would have been driveable after the 
windscreen was replaced, so the job could have gone ahead on 30 August 2021. 
 
The investigator pointed out that Mrs B was told by UKIs agent that the car couldnt be 
driven safely until the calibration was done. She still thought further compensation was 
appropriate, and as there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepts that its service was poor up to 24 August 2021. But there was further poor 
service on that day, when its agent didnt arrive as arranged to collect the car, due to a 
system error. It isnt Mrs Bs fault that she wasnt able to hand the car over the following day. 
Its collection hadnt been agreed for that date - and she had arrangements in place that she 
couldnt change. It seems collecting the car wasnt appropriate anyway, as the agent said it 
doesnt collect vehicles that can be driven safely by the consumer.
I think there was further poor service  and yet more frustration for Mrs B  on 30 August 
2021 when she took time off work for a wasted two-hour round trip to firm As premises. UKI 
has suggested recently that it would have been safe for Mrs B to have the windscreen 
replaced then, and to drive it before the calibration was done. But if thats the case, it isnt 
clear why firm A told her the opposite that day. I think it was reasonable for Mrs B to rely on 
the advice she got at the time and to assume it was correct. And although UKI has also 
referred to having offered Mrs B a hire car, I cant see any reference to that on the file. 
Mrs B feels she was let down by UKI before and after 24 August 2021, and I agree. It isnt 
clear why UKI didnt authorise garage V to carry out the windscreen repair from the outset, 
when it had been advised there would be a problem if it instructed firm A. Mrs Bs 
inconvenience and frustration could have been avoided had it done that.
 
I think it was reasonable for Mrs B to consider that £150 compensation was insufficient. Not 
only was there a lack of contact from UKI, but it also seems that its advisors didnt make 
notes of her calls at several points, so Mrs B had to repeat herself in setting out the facts. 
She had problems in speaking to specific advisors. Problems arose after UKI instructed its 
recovery agent - and from what UKI has said, there were communication issues with firm A. I 
think its clear all of this led to time being wasted unnecessarily in getting the repair done. 
In my opinion, more compensation is merited for the level of inconvenience and frustration 
Mrs B faced. I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay her £250 in total.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B 
£250 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman