DRN-1545270
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
with  Currys in November 1997. The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, 
but there has been a change in the company which is now responsible for answering 
these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD.
Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA throughout this final decision.
What happened
The PPI and credit facility were taken out in a store when Mrs P filled out a credit 
agreement.  Mrs P says she doesnt remember being given a choice about taking out the 
PPI. 
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it should be 
upheld. AXA disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final deicision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
I was sent the credit agreement Mrs P signed when she took PPI.  I can certainly see quite 
a few ways in which the information about PPI could have been set out in a much more 
comprehensive and clearer way, not least because the section about PPI didnt really say 
anything about what was and wasnt covered by this type of insurance. An X was placed 
in a box to show Mrs P wanted it. Although she most likely had the opportunity to check 
over the agreement before signing it, the information about the PPI was very scant. 
Nevertheless, I accept that AXA probably provided a non-advised sale and this means it 
didnt need to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Ps situation. But it still needed to 
provide enough clear information for Mrs P to make an informed decision about the cover 
 and this is where I think AXA fell short of its responsibilities. And while Ive seen AXA 
says it sent through details about the policy after the sale, I wouldnt expect her to review 
these in detail at that point.
Mrs P told us she has suffered from a particular health issue since 1990 for which she 
continues to take medication. When she signed her form however, which included the PPI 
option, there was no readily available information which pointed out what the actual rules 
of the PPI policy were. Our experience tells us, for example, that the medical condition 
Mrs P had been suffering from wouldnt have been covered by the PPI. This means if 
shed needed to take time off work because of that particular medical condition, she would 
have experienced difficulty in making a successful claim. 
I dont think AXAs reply about this issue is satisfactory. It says the medical condition 
was manageable and wouldnt have required time off work and asks for it to be proved. 
In my view AXA isnt in a position to say what the potential impact of such an illness 
might be. When Mrs P agreed to the PPI she was entitled to have the main features 
brought to her attention. Shes also been consistent about her health problems. And 
having asked our adjudicator to go back to Mrs P with some further questions, Im 
satisfied that her medical condition had a significant impact on her daily life, given that 
shes told us it has led to her taking time off from her work on a regular, often on a 
monthly basis.
AXA failed to ask anything at all about her health on what was a very short form and 
there was nothing on it which suggested her health might be an important issue. Given 
this medical condition was an ongoing one, I think Mrs P would have wanted to know it 
would be covered by taking out this type of cover. AXA didnt do this and so Im 
upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs P in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already and AXA should:
Pay Mrs P the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest 8% a year from .
If Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct AXA France IARD to 
pay the above compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman