DRN-4370875
The complaint
Miss T complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds (Bupas) decision to turn down her 
private medical insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss T has been covered under her employers group private medical insurance scheme 
since January 2021. She is a moratorium member, which means that there is no cover for 
medical problems experienced in the five years before joining the scheme.
A claim was submitted in 2022, as Miss T was having joint pain in her hands and feet. Bupa 
turned down the claim, as it thought Miss T had experienced those symptoms before she 
joined the scheme, and therefore the claim fell under the moratorium. Unhappy with this, 
Miss T brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. After considering the medical 
evidence, she thought Bupas decision to turn down the claim had been reasonable and in 
line with the scheme terms and conditions. 
Miss T didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions say:
For moratorium members we do not pay for treatment of a moratorium condition, or a 
disease, illness or injury that results from or is related to a moratorium condition.
A moratorium condition is defined as:
any disease, illness or injury or related condition, whether diagnosed or not, which you:
received medication for
asked for or received, medical advice or treatment for
experienced symptoms of, or 
were to the best of your knowledge aware existed 
in your moratorium qualifying period immediately before your moratoria start date
The membership certificate confirms that Miss Ts moratorium qualifying period was five 
years. Based on when Miss T joined the scheme, this would be January 2016 to January 
2021. 
Ive therefore considered the evidence to see if the condition for which Miss T was claiming 
would fall under the above definition of a moratorium condition.  
In July 2022 Miss T told Bupa she had pain, stiffness and swelling in some joints  mainly in 
her hands, feet and knees. She also reported pain in shoulders and hips. Bupa asked her for 
a GP referral. 
Miss T saw an online GP, available through Bupa. Ive read the GP referral letter dated 28 
August 2022. This said that Miss T had experienced hand and feet pain for approximately 
one year, but it was getting worse (and felt different to her existing fibromyalgia condition). 
The referral letter also said that Miss T had seen a rheumatologist approximately one year 
ago, but they couldnt find any obvious cause for her symptoms. The online GP thought the 
problem was joint stiffness.
When Bupa was assessing the claim, it asked Miss T to complete a moratorium pre-
treatment form. On this form, Miss T described that she had joint pain, swelling and stiffness 
(mainly in the hands and feet/ankles), as well as extreme fatigue, grip loss, pins and 
needles, and migraines. She explained the symptoms were getting worse, and she did see a 
rheumatologist, but they reconfirmed her fibromyalgia diagnosis. Miss T said the pain was 
more severe with obvious swelling and redness, and the online GP had recommended a 
second opinion from another rheumatologist. 
The pre-treatment form was also partly completed by Miss Ts own GP. The GP described 
Miss Ts symptoms as joint pains (with multiple sites and trigger points/loss of grip 
strength/swelling), as well as tiredness, IBS symptoms and migraines. The GP said the 
symptoms first started in 2014. 
The form then asked for further information relating to the condition for which Miss T was 
claiming, and any related conditions. The GP explained that Miss T had been diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia in 2016 after experiencing symptoms (aches and pains, and tiredness) for a few 
months before this. She was then treated for fibromyalgia for two to three years. There was 
also reference to a diagnosis of hypermobility in 2016. Finally, the GP said that Miss T had 
been seen in the rheumatology out-patient clinic in January 2021, and there was no 
inflammatory arthritis from her bloods and x-rays, and she was discharged.
I note the GP had listed a number of issues (some or all may be related to Miss Ts later 
diagnosis of fibromyalgia) and said the symptoms first started in 2014, but didnt make it 
clear which ones. They later confirmed that Miss Ts fibromyalgia symptoms of aches and 
pains started in 2016. I think its reasonable to conclude from this that Miss Ts joint pains 
started in 2016. The GP confirmed that Miss T received treatment for fibromyalgia over the 
next two to three years. 
Im satisfied from this that Miss T had experienced joint pain in the moratorium qualifying 
period, and that it was reasonable for Bupa to turn down the claim based on this information.
Miss T says her joint pain in 2021/2022 wasnt the same joint pain that she experienced 
because of fibromyalgia. Whilst I appreciate the online GP had said Miss Ts symptoms felt 
different to her existing fibromyalgia condition, this was based on Miss Ts own reporting. 
The online GP thought Miss T had joint stiffness. I dont think this was enough to show that 
the joint pains were unrelated to her previous ones.
Miss T says she has since received a new diagnosis through the NHS, and therefore Bupa 
should have accepted her claim. As Ive said, Im satisfied from the above that it was 
reasonable for Bupa to conclude that the claim related to Miss Ts previously reported joint 
pains. However, Bupa has said that it could change its decision if Miss T is able to provide 
evidence to show that her symptoms of joint pain arent related to those mentioned by the 
GP in the pre-treatment form. Im satisfied this was reasonable. If Miss T wants private treatment for her newly diagnosed condition, she may wish to provide further information to 
Bupa, so that it can consider the matter further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman