DRN-2427456
The complaint
Miss J complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited has unfairly applied 
excess mileage charges when she returned the vehicle at the end of the hire purchase 
agreement. She wants the charges cancelled.
 
What happened
Miss J tells us she acquired the vehicle in 2015 from a branch of Mercedes Ill refer to as 
G, having responded to an online advertisement. She states that she informed G that she 
required at least 10,000 miles per year allowance. Miss J says that she later discovered the 
mileage allowance on the agreement was only 5,000 miles. Miss J believes that the 
agreement has been misrepresented and the written copy held by Mercedes containing the 
mileage has been altered without her knowledge or consent.
MBFS told us that Miss J had replied to an advertisement in which the monthly cost and 
mileage had been stated. It said there had been no request by Miss J to alter the terms and 
that the agreement shed signed reflected the details of the advert.
Our investigator originally thought the complaint should be upheld. But upon the provision of 
additional information by MBFS he changed his opinion. He thought it was more probable 
than not that Miss J had received the same terms as had been included in the 
advertisement.
Miss J didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that our investigator referred to other charges (for damage) in his view. But as I 
cant see that these were included in Miss Js original complaint, I shant deal with them 
here. If there remains any dispute about these that would need to be addressed via a 
separate complaint process.
I accept that Miss J would be both surprised and disappointed to learn that the hire purchase 
agreement only made allowance for 5,000 miles annually. She clearly believed that shed 
agreed a deal with a higher mileage allowance.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Summarised, this makes the supplier of 
finance equally liable for any misrepresentations relating to the finance agreement or goods 
made by the dealer in antecedent negotiations. A misrepresentation is a false statement of 
fact which induces a consumer to enter an agreement and incur a loss due to that 
misrepresentation.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I understand that Miss J thinks MBFS has doctored the agreement. I should explain that 
Im not in a position to investigate the authenticity of documents which the respective parties 
supply. I give them and other information supplied such weight as I consider appropriate.
There are two sets of documents which are the Adequate Explanations (2 pages) and the 
Hire Purchase Agreement (7 pages). These are separate documents which are designed 
for different purposes.
The Adequate Explanations is to ensure the consumer knows the nature of the obligations 
contained in the finance agreement and that its suitable for their needs. The two page 
document does not refer to the mileage allowance. 
The Hire Purchase Agreement is the actual legal agreement which sets out the terms. The 
mileage allowance is referred to on page one. It reads:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle  any excess distance charge 
will be payable at the rate of 6.00pence (plus VAT) for each mile by which the total distance 
travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds the allowed distance, 
calculated at the rate of 5,000 miles per year (pro-rated for part years).
Ive seen a copy of both documents and the hire purchase agreement appears to bear Miss 
Js signature. 
The copy Ive seen with the signature of her sister apparently removed looks to relate to the 
Adequate Explanations document. I think the explanation offered by the investigator  to 
the effect that it is usually the dealer who counter signs the documents provided to the 
customer - is the most likely to be correct. But this doesnt materially affect my decision. Ill 
explain why. 
Miss J confirmed to our investigator that she remembered that the price paid was the same 
as the advertisement. So its a reasonable inference  in the absence of any documentary 
information to the contrary - that she accepted the other terms advertised. Neither party has 
been able to supply a copy of the actual advert. Adverts for similar vehicles around that time 
contain price and mileage information. But the mileage allowance is given as the total for the 
entire agreement. So its entirely understandable that anyone  particularly if they didnt look 
closely at all the information - might assume it was the annual allowance.
Im aware that Miss J insured the vehicle for mileage of up to 15,000 miles. But I think all that 
shows is that she was aware she was likely to cover this sort of annual mileage. And that 
she intended to enter an agreement which included more than 5,000 miles.
One of the main purposes of written agreements is that they provide some documentary 
record in the event of a later dispute. But they would be rendered almost meaningless if 
either party to the agreement could have the terms set aside by asserting  without 
additional documentary or other information in support - that different terms had been 
accepted.
As Im satisfied Miss J signed the finance agreement, I also find that she ought reasonably to 
have known the agreement was for 5,000 miles per year and that any excess miles above 
this would be chargeable.Its also correct to say that the monthly cost of an agreement for 5,000 miles would be lower 
than one for 10,000 miles in order to reflect the different depreciation in value of the vehicle.
I think its fair and reasonable that MBFS is able to rely on the terms of the agreement and to 
apply the charges for excess mileage. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman