DRN-1192580
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down an escape of water claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs L noticed the floor around her shower was bubbling up and the lino was 
lifted. She made a claim on her home insurance policy. UKI asked a loss adjuster to inspect 
the damage. It suggested the damage was down to poor workmanship, which isnt covered 
by the policy. So UKI turned down her claim. 
Mrs L was unhappy with UKIs decision. She said the poor work had been carried out by 
UKIs contractors following a claim seven years before. UKI appointed the surveyor thatd 
inspected Mrs Ls home during the previous claim to look further into the cause of the 
damage. The surveyor inspected the bathroom and sent a report to UKI.
The report said it didnt appear that the damage was down to poor workmanship when the 
bathroom had been reinstated before. It said the damage was consistent with trickles of 
water coming from the shower screen, which over time had leaked around the edges. It 
concluded the damage was more down to general wear and tear rather than construction 
faults.
Based on the surveyors report, UKI maintained its decision to turn town Mrs Ls claim. It 
said that general wear and tear isnt covered by the policy. So Mrs L asked us to look into 
her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
surveyors report showed the damage was down to poor workmanship. He thought the 
damage was consistent with wear and tear over time. And he didnt think the claim was 
covered by the policy.
Mrs L disagreed with the investigator. She said her plumber had advised her differently. And 
she asked how she was to notice water trickling in a hot, steamed area. So the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think UKI has treated 
Mrs L fairly. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mrs L feels strongly that the damage to her bathroom floor was caused by UKIs 
contractors using inappropriate flooring materials when previous reinstatement works took 
place. I can understand why shed think this, given she says her plumber told her it was 
because the wrong type of flooring had been used. And the first adjuster UKI sent out suggested the damage was down to faulty workmanship in the mastic seal between the 
shower tray and tiles.
So I need to think about what UKI did when it got the first adjusters video report and if it 
responded fairly to it. I can see from UKIs notes that it promptly got in touch with the 
surveyors thatd been involved in the previous claim to arrange an inspection of Mrs Ls 
bathroom. I think this was a reasonable and fair response. Thats because I think that before 
UKI agreed to cover this claim, it was entitled to be satisfied that the damage was either 
down to failures by its contractors or by something covered by the policy. 
Ive turned to look at what the surveyors report says. The reports important because its the 
only written piece of evidence I have explaining what the likely cause of damage was. It says 
the shower was sealed with a large mastic seal to the tiles and tray. It doesnt seem the 
surveyor found any issue or fault with the mastic sealant to the tiles or the tray.
The report says that plywood sheeting had been placed over the top of the floor structure, to 
provide a suitable substrate for the vinyl sheet flooring. Based on this finding, it doesnt 
appear that there was any fault or error in the flooring thatd been laid during the previous 
claim.
According to the report, it didnt appear the leak was due to poor reinstatement of the 
bathroom which was undertaken 7 years ago now. The report says  the isolated visible 
damage was predominately the floor boarding and skirting to the juncture of the shower and 
the walls. The damage was very focused in these two areas with the floor boarding failing in 
these areas. The skirting has also rotted away and was stained and this will have been 
visible prior to floor failure.
The surveyor took photos which he included with his report. Ive seen these photos and the 
pictures do seem to show damage consistent  with what the surveyor found, including the 
position of the damage.
Ultimately, the surveyor found the level of damage appears to be consistent with trickles of 
water coming from the screen which over time has leaked around the edges. Therefore the 
issues noted are more down to general wear and tear over time as opposed to construction 
defect.
Based on what Ive seen, I find the surveyors report plausible, especially when considered 
together with the photographs. So I think its most likely the damage was down to trickles of 
water over time, rather than being down to faulty workmanship. Mrs L hasnt provided 
anything from her plumber or from another expert which finds the damage was caused by 
poor workmanship from UKIs contractors. So on balance, I think the damage happened over 
time. 
Ive then looked Mrs Ls policy to see whether her claim should still be covered. Under the 
This policy doesnt cover section, I can see wear and tear is listed, as well as rot and 
damage caused gradually over time. Based on the surveyors report, it seems that the 
damage was down to wear and tear; had happened over a period of time and the skirting 
around the shower was rotten. So I dont think her claim is covered by the policy terms.
Mrs L asked how she was supposed to notice water trickling in a hot, steam-filled bathroom. 
Ive thought carefully about this. But the surveyors report said the rotten and stained skirting 
wouldve been visible before the floor failed. And I think this means it wouldve been visible 
when the shower wasnt being used too.  Overall, I think UKI has treated Mrs L fairly. I dont think poor workmanship by its contractors 
caused the leak. And I think its most likely the damage was down to wear and tear, which is 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. So I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mrs Ls 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman