DRN-1981292
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the service she received from Key Retirement Solutions 
Limited when applying for an equity release mortgage.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant consider any of the issues Mrs B says she had with the old lender, the new lender or 
the new lenders solicitor. This complaint is against Key Retirement. Key Retirement is in our 
jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider complaints against it for 
things a separate business did (or didnt do).
Whilst Key Retirement arranged the mortgage for Mrs B, it wasnt its responsibility to chase 
up the other parties for Mrs B nor was it its responsibility to raise  and manage  complaints 
to those other parties on her behalf.
I can see from the contact notes that Key Retirement was in contact with the various parties 
when problems arose, but Key Retirement was right when it told Mrs B that there was 
nothing it could do to expedite matters. All it could do was the same as Mrs B and her 
solicitor; it could contact the other parties involved but it had no power to force things forward 
any more quickly, and in fact multiple parties all chasing things up can often slow things 
down more (for all customers) as someone has to respond to all those chase-ups.
The application was made on 5 September 2019 and a mortgage offer was issued on 
20 September. After that things were out of Key Retirements hands, so any delays that 
occured cant be attributed to Key Retirement. Mrs B may have wanted a more bespoke 
service from Key Retirement, but Key Retirement had no regulatory responsibility to do more 
than it did.
I understand Mrs B is concerned a solicitor was appointed that she says she didnt agree to. 
I can see from her submissions that Mrs B has already referred that matter to the Information 
Commissioners Office ( www.ico.org.uk) and thats the right place for her concerns. We can 
consider if a financial loss has come from the breach, but Mrs B hasnt told us of any direct 
losses shes incurred from this. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied the instruction of that other solicitor didnt delay 
things as the change to Mrs Bs solicitor was made within days and was in a period whilst 
other things were going on. Im satisfied - on balance - that even if Mrs Bs chosen solicitor 
had been instructed from the start (rather than the other solicitor) things wouldnt have 
completed any sooner. For that reason, I dont need to make a finding on whether something 
went wrong here as even if something did go wrong it didnt cause a financial loss, so theres 
nothing for me to redress.
Key Retirement recommended a mortgage and placed that application with the mortgage 
lender. Once the mortgage offer was produced its role generally came to an end. Everything 
after that was dealt with between Mrs B and her solicitor, the new lender and its solicitor and 
the old lender. I understand Mrs B was disappointed that Key Retirement didnt return all her 
calls and emails immediately but having reviewed everything Im satisfied it did everything it 
needed to do. Unfortunately, it simply wasnt its role to deal with all the things Mrs B wanted 
of it.
Having considered everything Im satisfied that Key Retirement dealt with this application 
reasonably, and that is the only party whose actions I can look at here.
Finally, Mrs B has commented on how Key Retirement handled her complaint. She says 
there are inaccuracies in its response, and it didnt do what it said it would do. Our rules set 
out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending 
money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can 
consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Key Retirement handled Mrs Bs complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld Mrs Bs complaint it follows I 
cant uphold any complaint about how Key Retirement handled the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman