DRN-3031654
complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 2011. Mr and Mrs M say Coventry Building Society (Coventry B/Soc) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Coventry B/Soc made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. I say this because while Coventry B/Soc no longer has a 
copy of Mr and Mrs Ms PPI applications, it has provided us with an example that it says 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to complete the takeout the policies. 
They also had to complete a separate direct debit mandate for each one to allow the 
premiums to be taken from their bank account.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms further advance application form (PPI was taken out at the 
same time as Mr and Mrs M made an additional lending application) makes no reference 
to PPI  so I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have been under the impression they had 
to have PPI. And I think this is supported by their further advance offer letter, which in my 
view clearly says that no insurance was required as a condition of the lending.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything to persuade me that 
something different happened in Mr and Mrs Ms case, I think its likely they chose to 
take out PPI and did so without undue pressure. 
Coventry B/Soc says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M - so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time, shows that the two policies in each of their sole names werent fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the cover and 
although they had some existing means in the form of some sick pay and savings, given 
the policy would pay out in addition to any employee benefits and for longer than their 
sick pay would have lasted (up to 12 months per claim), I think they still had a need for 
cover. I think if either Mr or Mrs M had been off work for an extended period of time, their 
finances would have come under some strain - so the PPI would have helped them 
protect their mortgage payments and ultimately their home at what could be a difficult 
and perhaps uncertain time.
There was nothing about either of Mr and Mrs Ms employment or occupation, which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems  so overall I dont 
think it was wrong for Coventry B/Soc to have recommended PPI.
I accept its possible the information Coventry B/Soc gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
and Mrs M as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information they were given. Ive not seen anything to show the 
policies werent affordable  so it seems like they would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have declined 
the cover had Coventry B/Soc done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Coventry B/Soc should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Coventry B/Soc doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman