DRN-4250135
The complaint
Miss S complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund her for 
payments which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 17 July 2022, Miss S was shopping, and her handbag was stolen while she was trying on 
some shoes. The handbag contained her purse, NatWest card and her phone. 
Miss S rang NatWests lost and stolen line at 19:11 the same day, from her mothers phone, 
to report what had happened. She told NatWest that she had reported it to the police and 
she needed to stop the debit card immediately. The adviser cancelled the debit card and 
ordered a new one. Miss S asked if there had been any transactions, and the adviser 
confirmed there had been none. The adviser told Miss S that she could get cash out using 
her mobile app, and Miss S replied that her mobile had been stolen as well, as it was in the 
same bag. The adviser replied that she could go to a branch for cash.
At 20:25 on 19 July, a £1,000 faster payment debit was made to a new payee from Miss Ss 
phone. Another £1,000 payment to the same payee went through just after midnight. At 8:48 
on 20 July, a £250 payment was made to a new payee.  This took Miss Ss account into 
overdraft.
Miss S contacted NatWest about these transactions on 20 July, and said she hadnt 
authorised them. NatWests fraud team investigated.
 
Meanwhile, Miss S gradually discovered that her other financial accounts had also had 
money taken from them.  She updated the online police crime report with these.
NatWest contacted the recipient bank, and retrieved £5 which it credited to Miss Ss account 
on 28 July. But on 2 August it sent its final response letter to Miss S, saying that the 
evidence suggested that the payments had been made by Miss S, or by someone with her 
authority. Miss S asked NatWest to review this, but it confirmed its decision.
Miss S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. She said that the transactions had been 
made using the mobile banking app, so someone had access to Miss Ss phone and app. 
Miss S had said that her bank cards, driving licence and phone had all been in her handbag 
when it was stolen, but shed said she hadnt saved her mobile banking security information 
on her phone or written it down. So the investigator thought it was highly unlikely someone 
else could have accessed her mobile app, so it was most likely that Miss S had made the 
transactions herself. She also said that if a fraudster had made the transactions, theyd have 
been likely to make them very rapidly, not with spacing between them.
Miss S didnt agree. She said she hadnt orchestrated the transfers, and hadnt authorised 
anyone else to make them. She asked us to look at the other parts of the fraud, where the 
same recipient names had appeared in the debits from her other, non-NatWest, accounts. 
She said that all except NatWest had agreed it was fraud, and only NatWest, with whom 
shed banked for many years, hadnt believed her.  Mis S asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders 
can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if 
theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross 
negligence.
Miss S reported the thefts promptly both to the police and to NatWest, and she provided 
evidence about numerous other losses.  Whoever carried out the transactions, however, 
would have needed to know Miss Ss mobile banking details. Miss S said that she hadnt 
saved these on her phone, so its hard to see how a third party fraudster could have carried 
out the transactions. Its also very unusual for any fraudster not to take out as much money 
as possible straightaway  and here, the first disputed transaction didnt take place until 19 
July. So here are some unusual features here, which doesnt entirely fit the pattern of a 
normal theft and fraudulent transactions. 
But the deciding factor here is that when Miss S reported the theft of her bag, debit card and 
phone on 17 July, NatWest only stopped her debit card. The disputed transactions were 
carried out two days later using the mobile banking app on Miss Ss phone, which she had 
told NatWest had been stolen. 
I asked NatWest why it hadnt blocked Miss Ss account after her 17 July phone call. It 
replied that it wouldnt have disabled her online banking, but on that call it should have 
discussed with her how the stolen device could have been removed from her mobile banking 
app. NatWest pointed out that the thief wouldnt have been able to access her phone and 
login details, unless theyd been stored in her bag or on her phone. So she couldnt have 
kept these details secure. So NatWest offered Miss S 50% of her loss, but Miss S didnt 
accept this.
I considered this carefully. It concerned me that there was no clear way in which the thief 
could have found out Miss Ss security details if she hadnt stored them in her bag or on her 
phone, which broke the terms and conditions of the account. 
However:
- chronologically, the disputed transactions would never have reached that stage if 
NatWests phone adviser on 17 July had correctly acted to prevent the stolen device 
being used for transactions; 
- I would also have expected NatWests security systems to have triggered  when the 
disputed transactions were attempted. They were out of character for Miss Ss 
account; they were to new payees; and they took her into overdraft. This case is finely balanced, but as NatWests phone adviser could have prevented the 
transactions if hed told Miss S how the stolen phone could have been removed from her 
mobile banking app, I found that NatWest was liable. So I said in my provisional decision 
that, subject to responses from the parties, I intended to order NatWest to refund Miss S.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest accepted the provisional decision, and agreed to the recommendations in it.
Miss S also accepted the provisional decision. She sent some media links and said that she 
wanted me to look at these in relation to fraud via stolen mobiles on banking apps.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and having considered the 
replies from NatWest and Miss S, I find that my original conclusions were fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I order NatWest to pay Mis S £2,245. This is the total of the three 
disputed transactions less the £5 which NatWest recovered and returned to Miss S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman