DRN-2166116
The complaint
Mr W says that Clydesdale Bank Plc sold his property at an undervalue. And he says that 
Clydesdale should have taken repossession action earlier, so that the shortfall would have 
been lower. 
What happened
Mr W had an interest only mortgage with Clydesdale. The mortgage matured in 2015.
A Homebuyers Report was undertaken in January 2018, which valued the property at 
£237,000. But the property didnt sell at that time. And in September 2018 the property was 
repossessed by Clydesdale.
An updated Homebuyers Report was completed in April 2019. This showed a value of 
£150,000. And the property was subsequently sold for £160,000.
Clydesdale wrote to Mr W in August 2019. It explained that the property had been sold but 
that the sale proceeds were not enough to repay the full outstanding mortgage debt. There 
was therefore a shortfall of around £175,000 outstanding on his account.
Mr W complained to Clydesdale. But it didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary:
Although Mr W said that he had received offers of over £200,000 on the property, the 
earliest offer it was made aware of was in September 2018 for £200,000. At that time 
the eviction could not be halted by the offer;
A Homebuyers Report was undertaken in January 2018 which valued the property at 
£237,000. That value was unfortunately below the value of the mortgage outstanding 
at that time. When an updated Homebuyers Report was completed in April 2019 it 
showed a value of £150,000. The property was then sole for around £160,000. 
Clydesdales asset management team used the valuation provided in the most recent 
Homebuyers Report when selling the property. So it was satisfied that the Bank had 
not sold the property for an unreasonable amount;
Mr W had said that, had the Bank taken action sooner to repossess the property then 
the shortfall balance would be lower. But it noted that it had shown forbearance while 
Mr W was considering a strategy to repay the outstanding mortgage. As Clydesdale 
had not received any payment on the mortgage since May 2015 the balance had 
increased due to accrued interests and charges.
Mr W had advised that he held planning consent which would have affected the 
valuation noted on the recent Homebuyers Report. But in order for the planning 
permission to be considered by the surveyor during his valuation Clydesdale would 
have needed to be provided with full documentation and plans.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. But Mr W 
doesnt agree, and so his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation of property
I appreciate that Mr W believes that his property was sold at an undervalue. But having 
considered all the evidence Im not persuaded that Clydesdale have done anything wrong. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen the homebuyers report undertaken in January 2018. And I note that the property 
was valued at that time at £237,000. Ive also seen a copy of the updated homebuyers 
report completed in April 2019. I see that that report valued the property at £150,000.
Having reviewed the April 2019 report I note that the property at that time was not 
considered suitable for normal mortgage finance. And I see that it reported that a number 
of urgent repairs were needed and that there were also unfinished structural issues. 
I also note that Clydesdale had another valuation undertaken at around this time by an 
estate agent. This suggested an asking price of £140,000.
There were five offers on the property and Clydesdale accepted the highest offer of 
£160,000. This was £10,000 more than the value set out in the homebuyers report. 
Taking all these issues into account, Im not persuaded that Clydesdale acted unfairly in 
relation of the sale of the property.
I appreciate that Mr W says that he had planning consent for the property, which would 
have meant that the value of the property should have been higher. But, as our investigator 
explained, Clydesdale used a surveyor to value the property. And, although Ive carefully 
considered what Mr W has to say Im satisfied that Clydesdale acted reasonably by relying 
on the report prepared by the surveyor. So this doesnt change my decision.
Mr W has also said that he had higher offers on the property but that these werent 
considered by Clydesdale. And I can see from the information supplied to me that Mr W 
contacted Clydesdale in September 2018 to let them know of the offers. But this was just 
before Clydesdale took possession of the property. And, given that the account had been 
arrears since 2015 and the offer Mr W received wouldnt cover the total amount he owed to 
Clydesdale Im not persuaded that Clydesdale acted unreasonably by refusing to stop the 
eviction. So, again, this doesnt change my decision
Timing of repossession
Mr W also says that Clydesdale should have taken possession of the property earlier. He 
says that, if it had done so, the amount he would have had to repay would have been lower.
Having reviewed the documentation available to me, I can see that Mr Ws mortgage 
matured in May 2015. And I see that Mr W considered a number of options to repay the 
mortgage including selling other property and taking out another mortgage elsewhere. 
Clydesdale also allowed Mr W the opportunity to market the property himself. Having 
considered the circumstances, Im persuaded that Clydesdale acted reasonably by allowing 
Mr W time to consider the options available to him and to market the property himself. So Im 
not persuaded that it acted unreasonably in not taking possession of the property before 
September 2018. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman