DRN-4103763
The complaint
Ms L complains that Revolut Ltd will not refund a payment she says she did not authorise.
What happened
Ms L holds a Revolut account. A feature of the account is that it provides disposable virtual 
cards which can be used for one payment and then are automatically deleted so those card 
details cannot be used again.
On 7 July 2022 a payment of approximately £715 was made from Ms Cs account in a 
foreign currency, using a disposable virtual card that had been set up on her account. Ms L 
received a notification that the payment had been made, and contacted Revolut to say that 
she had not made the payment herself. 
Revolut looked into what had happened but did not consider that there was any evidence to 
show the payment was fraudulent, so it believes that Ms L authorised the payment or 
otherwise allowed it to be made. Ms L maintains that her account must have been 
compromised in some way and that she did not make the payment and has no relationship 
with the merchant it was made to. Ms L is also unhappy that no additional security check 
was carried out before the payment was allowed to go through, given the amount it was for 
and that it was in a foreign currency that she had not previously transacted in.
Ms L referred her complaint to our service, and one of our Investigators looked into what had 
happened. But having considered the evidence provided, they agreed with Revoluts 
assessment that it was more likely Ms L had authorised the payment.
Ms L remained unhappy, so as no agreement could be reached her complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Ms L is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them herself 
or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. So, the 
key question here is whether Revolut has acted fairly in concluding that Ms L did authorise 
the disputed payment.
Revolut has explained that the virtual card that was used for the payment could only have 
been used by someone who had access to Ms Ls banking through the Revolut app. It has 
shown that only one device was registered to use the app for Ms Ls account  the phone 
she had been using since 2019  and Ms L has said nobody else had access to her phone 
or knew her PIN. So I dont see that here is any explanation for how someone other than 
Ms L could have made this payment. Ms L has suggested that her account could have been 
hacked, and has pointed to an article about a security flaw at Revolut. But Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that there was any breach of Ms Ls account in this case, and the article she 
refers to also does not appear to apply to the circumstances we are looking at here.
Revolut has also noted that the disposable card was initially verified with the merchant in 
June 2022, that Ms L had previously had pending transactions with the same merchant, and 
that a failed transaction to that merchant was also attempted using a different card on Ms Ls 
Revolut account after this disputed payment. Ms L says she has never had any dealings with 
the merchant, but I dont think the evidence Ive seen supports what she has said.
Lastly, I note Ms Ls comment that she believes the payment should not have been 
approved without further authentication. I can understand why she feels this way, but given 
the value of the payment and the nature of Ms Ls account (ie. that it was regularly used for 
payments in a variety of foreign currencies) I dont think it is unreasonable that it was 
processed without additional checks. And in any case, given that I think it is more likely than 
not that Ms L authorised this transaction or otherwise allowed it to be made, I dont think 
further verification would have changed the outcome here.
I know this will be disappointing for Ms L, but with what Ive seen Im satisfied that Revolut 
was fair to find that Ms L more likely than not authorised this transaction or otherwise 
allowed it to be made. It follows that I wont be asking Revolut to refund the payment to 
Ms L.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman