DRN-4070075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a personal possessions 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr S has brought the complaint, for ease of reading, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs S travelled on a cruise. They returned to the UK on 28 August 
2021. Mr S says that personal possessions, including watches, a watch roll and cash were 
stolen from a bag he was carrying. The following day, Mr S made a claim for his lost/stolen 
items on his travel insurance policy.
AXA looked into Mr S claim and turned it down. It said the policy required a policyholder to 
show theyd reported their loss to their carrier. In this case, Mr S had provided AXA with 
screenshots which he said showed hed reported the loss to the cruise company soon after 
the event. However, hed told AXA he hadnt had any response from the cruise company.
But AXA had contacted the cruise company directly. The cruise company had responded 
promptly and told AXA it hadnt received any loss report from Mr S. On that basis, AXA 
concluded that Mr S had misrepresented his claim to it.
Mr S was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Mr S complaint should be upheld. She felt 
the screenshots Mr S had provided demonstrated that, on balance, he had reported the loss 
to the cruise provider in August 2021. So she felt the loss was likely to have happened in the 
way Mr S had said it had. She thought that AXA should accept and settle Mr S claim.
AXA didnt provide a definitive response to our investigators view, although it did have some 
concerns. It felt the screenshot might have been easy to fabricate. And it didnt think the 
screenshots proved, beyond reasonable doubt, that Mr S had reported the loss to the cruise 
company. So it questioned whether it should use utmost good faith and rely on Mr S version 
of events.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think AXA had treated Mr S fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr S policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AXA handled Mr S
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of AXAs
contract with Mr S. Sections nine and ten of the policy set out the relevant cover for a
policyholders personal baggage. I note that the personal baggage section of the policy sets
out a list of things which AXA specifically excludes from cover. One of these says:
any loss or theft of or damage to Your Personal Baggage whilst in the custody of an airline
or other carrier unless You report it immediately on discovery to the carrier and get a written
report. In the case of an airline You will need a Property Irregularity Report (PIR)
In my view, AXA has clearly set out that it requires a written report from a policyholders
carrier of loss or damage to a policyholders items. In my experience, this isnt an unusual
term in travel insurance policies  most, if not all, travel insurers will want to be satisfied that
a policyholder has reported a loss to their carrier. And an insurer will want to be satisfied that 
the carrier hasnt been able to find the items or compensate a policyholder for their loss 
before it agrees to accept a claim.
AXA doesnt think Mr S has shown that he reported his loss to his carrier  the cruise
company. I acknowledge that AXA did contact the cruise company itself and received a
prompt response which stated that it had no record of Mr S making it aware of the loss. Ive
thought about this carefully.
On the other hand, Ive taken into account screenshots which Mr S has provided to both us
and to AXA. These are dated 29 August 2021  the day Mr S reported the loss to AXA too. It
appears, from the first screenshot, that Mr S had accessed the cruise companys contact us
function and had completed an online form. This form set out his booking details; contact
details; and stated that his watches, watch roll and cash had been lost. He queried whether
the items had been found or handed in. I can see from that screenshot that at the point it
was taken; Mr S hadnt ticked to say that hed read the cruise companys privacy policy, nor
had he submitted the form.
The second screenshot is also dated 29 August 2021. The web address includes contact-
us-success within the URL. The screenshot goes on to say:
Contact us success
THANK YOU!
We appreciate your comments.
If you have submitted a question or a request for assistance, we will get back to you shortly.
Best regards,
(Cruise company).
AXA doesnt think these screenshots demonstrate that Mr S did contact the cruise company
and its questioned the authenticity of them. Im mindful that the first screenshot was taken at
a point prior to the enquiry being submitted and that it isnt proof that the enquiry was sent.
But it seems to me that Mr S may well have taken a screenshot of his message prior to
sending it to ensure that the information hed inputted wasnt lost upon submission. In my
view, this doesnt detract from its potential authenticity. Ive seen nothing on either
screenshot which suggests that its most likely that they werent screen-grabbed from the
cruise companys website.
And its important I make it clear that Im not required to make a decision based on an
evidential test of beyond reasonable doubt. Thats a test for the courts. I reach a decision
based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely to have
happened, taking into account the available evidence and circumstances.
In this case, the confirmation email from the cruise company appears to have been sent
following the submission of a contact us form and is dated on the same date as the enquiry
screenshot was taken. This is indicative that Mr S did at least make contact with the cruisecompany the day after he returned from the cruise  and it seems likely that this was in
relation to the items he says hes lost. So on balance, I currently think the evidence does
demonstrate that Mr S complied with the policy terms and reported the loss to his carrier.
And its unfortunate that the cruise company didnt appear to respond to Mr S enquiry or
provide a written report.
Taking the above into account, I currently dont find its fair or reasonable for AXA to turn
down Mr S claim on the basis that it doesnt think he reported the loss to the carrier. This
means I dont think it can fairly rely on the policy exclusion Ive referred to above. With that
said, I dont think I could fairly direct AXA to settle Mr S claim at this point. In my view, the
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for AXA to now reconsider Mr S
claim, without reference to the exclusion, and in line with the remaining terms and conditions
of the policy. It would be for Mr S to provide AXA with any reasonable supporting evidence it
might require in order to carry out such an assessment.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence or comments they wanted 
me to consider. Both Mr S and AXA accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider Mr and Mrs S claim, in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions and any applicable limits and excesses.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman