DRN-4005869
The complaint
Mrs D complains about her buildings insurance policies with Ageas Insurance Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs D and Ageas. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that Ive reached.
Mrs D is represented in this complaint by a family member. For ease, Ill only refer to Mrs D 
throughout.
Mrs D had buildings insurance with Ageas for a number of years. In December 2021 Ageas 
let Mrs D know that following a review of the insured risk, they werent offering cover at 
renewal. Mrs D raised a complaint about this and the premiums shed been charged over the 
years as a loyal customer. Mrs D also felt shed been exploited.
Following a review of the complaint, Ageas offered Mrs D a total of £1289.79. This included 
payment for any trouble and upset caused and a refund of around £1100 to recognise that 
Mrs D had been a loyal customer and Ageas couldve done more to reach out to her.
Mrs D remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our Service. She wanted 
compensation of around £7,000 - as she believes she was a vulnerable customer who was 
overcharged during the course of having this cover. Our investigator considered this 
complaint, but didnt recommend that Ageas needed to do anything further.
As Mrs D didnt accept our Investigators recommendations, the complaint was referred to 
me for a decision. Our Investigator recently addressed the concerns raised by Ageas about 
the time limits that apply for raising a complaint  given that some of these events occurred 
over six years ago.
I sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the deadline set for 
responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service and Ive to reach my 
decision based on what I think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
Mrs D responded to my provisional decision with a number of comments, outlining that she 
doesnt accept it - but without any further supporting evidence. Therefore, I find no fair or 
reasonable decision to deviate from what I set out in my provisional decision as the evidence 
Ive based my decision on hasnt materially changed. 
There were two different policies here. Policy one ran from 2004-2015 and policy two 2015-
2021. Generally, our Service would consider both policies separately, but as Ageas have 
responded to Mrs Ds dissatisfaction in one complaint  Ive considered the entirety of the 
complaint in this decision.
The Equality Act 2010
Mrs D has referred to exploitation and the Equality Act 2010 in her complaint to Ageas and 
the referral to us. But its not my role, or the role of this Service to decide whether Ageas 
acted unlawfully or not (breached the Equality Act 2010). That would be a matter for the 
Courts.
My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But 
when reaching that finding, I will take a number of things into account - including relevant law 
and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, although its for 
the Courts to say whether or not Ageas breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take 
the Equality Act 2010 into account - if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The premiums charged
At the heart of this complaint is the premiums charged. Both policies insured different risks 
(two different properties) and arent directly comparable. This is important as an overall 
increase in premiums in isolation isnt reflective of Mrs D being unfairly treated. Its also 
worth adding that, aside from the risk being insured, other factors influence insurance 
premium pricing  such as the wider market.
Ageas have explained that due to administration system limitation and the time lapsed, 
theyre unable to confirm the premiums charged between 2004 and 2009. Given the 
passage of time, this isnt unusual or unexpected. Our Service also asked Ageas to provide 
more detail on the underwriting that sits behind the premiums charged and theyve provided 
that information from 2017 onwards. Again, due to data retention - earlier records are no 
longer available.
There were a number of amendments made to the cover by Mrs D over a number of years. 
The result was the premiums charged were adjusted (up and down) according to the risk 
insured. For example:
In 2013 Mrs D removed a pair of earrings from cover.
In 2016 Mrs D added a pair of hearing aids to the cover which resulted in an 
additional premium.
In 2017 Mrs D was quoted £1000 for her renewal quote but reduced the value of 
hearing aids covered and the renewal quote was reduced to £983.83.
 In 2018 Mrs D decreased the sum insured for hearing aids and this resulted in a 
partial premium refund.
In April 2020 Mrs D wrote to Ageas to request an increase in the sum insured for a 
ring and added a bracelet and tankard. This resulted in an additional premium of 
£123.08.
Shortly after, in May 2020, Mrs D requested that a ring be removed from cover and 
made some other changes - including changing the total number of bathrooms to two. These amendments meant she was refunded a premium of £11.37.
Ive also reviewed the available information about the premiums charged year on year from 
2009-2021. During the period 2009-2015 (policy one), Mrs D actually was paying less overall 
(£695.17 in 2009, compared with £559.12 in 2015). The premiums did increase to £812.10 in 
2016 (policy two), but as outlined, this policy insured a different address and the risk isnt 
directly comparable to the previous policy.
From 2016-2021, its correct that the premiums did increase year on year (from £812.10 in 
2016 to £1,256.42 in 2021). But, having considered this against the available commercially 
sensitive underwriting reasons for the premium increases, on balance, Ive not found 
sufficiently persuasive evidence to fairly conclude that Ageas treated Mrs D unfairly with 
regards to the price of her insurance premiums overall or that they unfairly inflated premiums 
because of her loyalty.
The offer made by Ageas
Ageas made an offer of £1,139.79, inclusive of 8% simple interest as they felt they possibly 
could have done more to highlight any premium increases. The offer was calculated by 
applying a discretionary discount and I find it to be fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Although I havent found that Ageas did anything wrong with regards the pricing of Mrs Ds 
premiums (2009-2021), as the offer is in Mrs Ds favour - its not something Id seek to 
interfere with.
Ageas also made an offer of £250 for their error of writing to Mrs D when she raised a 
complaint, instead of contacting her representative. Its clear that this whole experience will 
have caused Mrs D annoyance and frustration  particularly given her health circumstances. 
But overall, I find Ageas offer of £250 for any trouble or upset caused to be fair, reasonable 
and proportionate.
Mrs D has confirmed that the total offer (£1,289.79) has been paid to her, so I wont be 
making a direction that Ageas need to pay anything further.
How have Ageas treated Mrs D overall?
Ive noted from this complaint that Mrs D believes Ageas shouldve been aware of her 
vulnerabilities from their interactions with her. In an email dated 28 December 2022, Mrs Ds 
representative stated:
[Mrs D] vulnerable, being aged, disabled, largely blind, dumb, and deaf. I am very 
proud of her as she tries successfully to live an independent life in her own home but 
her disabilities are such Ageas staff will have been wholly aware of her 
vulnerabilities.
At an earlier point, in the complaint form, its stated by Mrs Ds representative:
She cannot hear well and much of her jaw has been removed so struggles to 
speak. and:
Anyone who tries to speak with her will be massively aware of her vulnerabilities.
Mrs Ds representative also raised safeguarding and disability discrimination allegations. Our
Service asked Ageas of what they knew about Mrs Ds circumstances:Were you made aware by Mrs D [redacted by Ombudsman] or any representative 
during the lifetime of the policy of any health conditions or vulnerabilities?
While we were obviously aware of Mrs Ds age and that she was a widow, we had 
not been made aware of any physical, mental or emotional vulnerabilities until her 
letter dated 10 January 2022
Our Service also asked Ageas for copies of any call recordings available - to determine if 
Ageas ought to reasonably have been aware of Mrs Ds circumstances. The only call 
recording available is from 6 May 2020, during which Mrs D called Ageas to make payment.
From this call, I cant fairly say that Id reasonably have expected Ageas to be aware of any 
vulnerabilities. In my opinion, Mrs D engages in a coherent conversation with the Ageas staff 
member throughout.
In summary, I havent seen strong or persuasive evidence that Ageas treated Mrs D unfairly 
or unreasonably. This isnt at all to detract from what her representative has since told us 
about Mrs Ds health circumstances. But my point is; from Ageas interactions with Mrs D 
both verbal and written prior to January 2022, I cant fairly conclude they ought reasonably to 
have been aware or acted differently.
The decision not to offer a renewal quote
As an insurer, Ageas are entitled to decide what level of risk theyre prepared to underwrite. 
Ageas told Mrs D in their final response letter that it was because of the age of the property 
that they declined to offer a renewal quote. Ageas have provided supporting evidence of the 
underwiring criteria that sits behind this decision and Im satisfied that Mrs D has been 
treated the same here as any other customer with the same property and property age 
profile.
Whilst Ive no doubt this will have been frustrating for Mrs D, I dont find that theyve done 
anything wrong in this regard. Our Services remit doesnt extend to telling an insurer what 
risks they should be prepared to underwrite.
Mrs D has also referred to being able to find cover cheaper elsewhere. But our Service cant 
tell an insurer (Ageas) how to set their premiums and it wouldnt be uncommon for a 
customer to find a cheaper quote on the open insurance market.
My decision will disappoint Mrs D, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve her complaint with Ageas. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman