DRN-2407051
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Vitality Health Limiteds handling of her private medical insurance 
claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Vitality advised Mrs F that it couldnt authorise her claim for investigations until it had 
received a claim form completed by her GP. The reason for that was because the 
claim had been made in the first year of her being on cover. I assume Vitality 
therefore wanted to check that Mrs Fs symptoms didnt pre-date the start of the 
policy. 
Mrs F was advised by Vitality that it aims to provide a claims decision within five 
working days of receiving a claim form. The claim form was received by Vitality on 7 
November, but Mrs F was told on 8 November that she would likely find out the 
decision on 11 November. However, Mrs F didnt receive Vitalitys claims decision 
until 19 November (when she made a complaint), by which point shed already been 
seen under the NHS. 
Vitality didnt process the claim due to human error. Vitality says that if it had 
assessed the claim on 11 November, it probably would have been able to obtain an 
appointment for Mrs F later that week. Though I understand Mrs F had already been 
seen under the NHS by that point, and therefore wasnt disadvantaged by the delay.
Despite this, I can understand why Mrs F was upset by the service she received from 
Vitality. She was clearly anxious to have the investigations, and Vitality didnt get 
back to her with its claims decision when it said it would.  
I think it would be appropriate for Vitality to pay Mrs F £100 compensation to 
recognise the upset Mrs F was caused by its poor handling of the matter. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mrs F 
£100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman