DRN-1805068
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that MYJAR Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Miss M was given two loans with MYJAR between June and November 2017. She says she 
already had payday loans, credit card accounts and an overdraft. Miss M said she was in 
financial difficulty, struggling to afford living expenses and borrowing to repay existing debts. 
The second loan has an unpaid balance and is part of a debt management plan that Miss M 
entered into in 2018.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint. She said MYJAR carried out checks, and 
the information it received suggested the loans were affordable. While MYJAR knew Miss M 
had other loans at the time, this wouldnt have caused it concern.
Miss M said MYJAR didnt ask if her income was about to change (she was about to take 
maternity leave) and didnt check her expenditure on priority payments. She said it wasnt 
responsible to lend to her given the amount of debt she had and that her outgoings 
exceeded her income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Miss M's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: a customers income (as it could be more difficult to make loan repayments from a 
lower level of income); the higher the amount due to be repaid (as it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the greater the number and 
frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a customer has been 
given loans (as repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Ive carefully considered all of the 
arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what this all means for 
Miss Ms complaint. 
Miss M took out two loans, of £400 and £500. Each loan was to be repaid in six monthly 
instalments of between £120 to £145. Miss M repaid the first loan about a month before she 
took out the second loan.
MYJAR did some checks before it lent to Miss M. It asked her for details of her income, and 
normal expenditure. Miss M told MYJAR her monthly net income was £1,500, and her 
outgoings were about £700 (including credit commitments of about £500). This would have 
suggested to MYJAR that the repayments were affordable.
MYJAR also did credit checks before giving the loans to Miss M. The results of its checks 
estimated Miss Ms monthly credit commitments at about £600. But this would still have 
appeared affordable, based on the information Miss M had provided about her other 
outgoings. While MYJAR knew Miss M had other credit commitments, this didnt mean it 
couldnt lend to her. 
Miss M says she was in financial difficulty and her outgoings exceeded her income, leaving 
her struggling with living costs. But I dont think MYJAR knew this when it gave her the 
loans. The amounts Miss M needed to repay were small compared with the disposable 
income shed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ms 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it would 
have been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable.
And there wasnt anything in the information MYJAR received that would have made it 
proportionate for it to ask Miss M for evidence to verify what shed said. So I dont think it 
was wrong for MYJAR to give these loans to Miss M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman