DRN-3234054
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the outcome of his complaint following his declined claim against 
Ikano Bank AB (publ) under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some 
mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are fully aware of the background to this complaint, so I dont intend to set it out 
in detail here. In summary, in late 2017, Mr W bought a solar panel system from a supplier, 
that Ill call S. Hes told us that S salesman said the panels would be self-funding. The 
Feed-in-Tariff (FIT), export payments and electricity savings would be sufficient to pay the 
monthly loan costs for the 10-year fixed term £6,500 loan he took from Ikano to pay for the 
panels. Mr W has also said that the system keeps tripping out in wet or damp weather and 
has done since the panels were fitted.
S has gone into liquidation but a related solar supply company, F, has been helping Ikano 
deal with complaints about S. When Mr W complained, he was told by F that his panels were 
out of warranty and that the problem was likely to be with the inverter. F said it would come 
out to inspect the system but would charge £250 for this. F didnt address the allegations of 
mis-sale, but it did offer to provide Mr W with the 20 LED lightbulbs that he never received 
from S under the original contract.
Unhappy with this, Mr W referred his complaint to this Service. Ikano said that it hadnt itself 
dealt with the complaint, even though F appeared to have been acting on its behalf. So, it 
issued a further final response letter in which it didnt agree that the panels had been mis-
sold or that it was responsible for any problem with the system, as it was outside the term of 
the two-year warranty. It did, however, apologise for the way in which Mr Ws section 75 
claim had been dealt with. But offered no compensation.
Our investigator thought that the benefits of the panels had been misrepresented to Mr W. 
She also considered that Ikano should arrange for the system to be inspected and repaired if 
any fault was found with the installation. She recommended that the loan be restructured to 
make it self-funding and that Mr W be credited for any overpayments plus simple interest at 
8%. She also thought that Ikano should pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W through the way that Ikano had dealt with his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for substantially similar reasons. So, 
I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I was very disappointed to see that Ikano, after almost four months, has still failed to respond 
to the investigators opinion on this complaint, despite being chased. This service can only 
operate efficiently if financial services businesses are to respond to our investigators 
promptly. I hope that Ikano will take due note of this when dealing with future complaints.
The parties accept that Section 75 of the Act is relevant to this complaint. Ikano is 
responsible for any legitimate claim that Mr W may have against S in the same way that S 
would have been if it had still been around to answer it. Ikano will be aware of our approach 
to solar panel mis-sale complaints, so I wont set that out again here. Our investigator has 
also made that approach clear in her opinion on this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr W was told that the panels would be self-funding over the 10-year term 
of the loan. The paperwork prepared by S makes a wholly unrealistic claim that the benefits 
that Mr W would get from the panels over their 25-year lifespan would be around £65,000. 
For the 20 LED bulbs that were to be supplied alone, S said Mr W would save over £13,000 
in 25 years. This I think gives a flavour of the unsupportable claims the salesman made to 
Mr W. So, I think that its more likely than not he was told the panels would be self-funding 
and that he wouldnt have bought them had this misrepresentation not been made.
Ikano has said that Mr W could easily have compared the FIT, export and electricity savings 
figures against the loan instalments and seen that the panels wouldnt be self-funding. But 
given the other claims that were being made about savings, I dont think that would have 
been an easy comparison for him to make, particularly if, as Mr W says, the salesman was 
saying something completely different. 
Mr W has told us that the panels have been tripping in wet and damp weather ever since 
they were fitted. Ikano asked F to look into this for him but they wanted to charge to attend, 
as the two-year warranty had expired by the time that Mr W complained to Ikano. But Mr Ws 
evidence is that this had been going on since the panels were fitted. And I have no reason to 
doubt thats true. S went bust and so couldnt answer Mr Ws concerns, so he ultimately 
ended up coming to Ikano. He did this when hed also realised that the benefits of the panels 
werent what hed been told they would be.
Ikano has made a 10-year loan to Mr W here. And he should reasonably have expected the 
panels to remain problem free for at least that time, given they dont generally require any 
maintenance. If thats not the case, then I would doubt whether the panels or their 
installation was of satisfactory quality in the first place. Inverters do often require 
replacement, at least once over the 25-year life of the system. But here F has said that it 
thinks the inverter is probably the reason for any tripping. So that appears to potentially have 
become faulty within, at the most, 2 years. Thats not something that Mr W should 
reasonably have expected and so Ikano must send an expert out to inspect it and fix any 
problem that may be found.
Putting things right
Determining compensation in solar panel complaints isnt an exact science. I dont think it 
would be proportionate here for me to require the removal of the system and the return of Mr 
Ws payments, less any benefit that hes had. The panels are still working, subject to tripping 
out from time to time.
Again, Ikano will be familiar with our approach to compensation in this type of complaint. We 
generally think its fair compensation for Ikano to restructure the loan to make it self-funding. 
In that regard, Mr W will pay no more than the benefits that he receives from the system in 
terms of FIT, export payments and electricity savings over the original length of the loan. 
Ikano should use the actual system performance and income received where available and 
otherwise use this services agreed standard assumptions for the balance of the loan term.
Mr W has been paying monthly instalments which are likely to be higher than those he would have paid if the loan had been self-funding. I will require that Ikano calculate any 
overpayments and add to those simple interest at our usual rate of 8% from the date that 
they were paid until they are effectively repaid, to compensate Mr W for being deprived of 
the use of that money. I also think that Ikano should give Mr W the options that Ive set out 
below as to how those overpayments are to be used. 
Mr W will clearly have been upset and inconvenienced by the delays in Ikano dealing with 
his Section 75 claim. I dont think an apology was sufficient here. And I agree with our 
investigator that Ikano should pay Mr W £100 compensation to reflect how this made him 
feel.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Ikano Bank AB (publ) do the 
following:
1. Recalculate the loan based on the known and assumed income and savings to Mr W 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so that he pays no more than that;
2. Allow Mr W to keep the solar system;
3. Arrange for an expert to inspect the system to determine the cause of the tripping 
and carry out any repairs necessary to fix it;
4. Calculate any overpayments made and add simple interest to them at 8%* a year 
from the time that they were paid until the date of settlement. Ikano should give Mr W 
the following options as to how he would like the overpayments and interest applied:
a. the overpayments and interest are used to reduce the outstanding balance of 
the loan and Mr W continues to make his current monthly payment resulting 
in the loan finishing early,
b. the overpayments and interest are used to reduce the outstanding balance of 
the loan and Mr W pays a new monthly payment until the end of the original 
loan term,
c. the overpayments and interest are returned to Mr W and he continues to 
make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
d. the overpayments and interest are returned to Mr W and he pays a new 
monthly payment until the end of the original loan term; and
5. Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Ikano deduct tax from any interest it pays. 
Should Mr W request it, Ikano must provide him with a certificate setting out the tax 
deducted, so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman