DRN-3978704
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna Bank) has administered his 
account with it.
What happened
Mr M wanted to buy an item online. Hed qualified for a discount and a promotion on the 
purchase price of the item due to a separate account that he had with a third party entity 
which I will refer to as G. As part of the transaction Mr M had intended to trade in an item 
which he already owned for which he would have received payment. Mr M wanted to fund 
this transaction using credit from his account with Klarna Bank.
However, despite several attempts to carry out the transaction over several days Mr M was 
unable to proceed. Mr M considers the problem lay with Klarna Bank. He contacted it for 
help but instead was given lots of different advice which ultimately proved to be unhelpful. Mr 
M indicates he found this distressing and frustrating. Mr M mentioned that he knew Klarna 
Bank had experienced what appeared to be a systemic technical error in relation to 
purchases from G. He questioned whether his purchase had been impacted by that.
Mr M complained to Klarna Bank. Mr M considers he had lost out financially due to Klarna 
Bank. At this point he told it he wanted £450 from it to put things right as this would cover his 
financial loss.
Initially Klarna Bank responded to say it had done nothing wrong. It did not agree that Mr Ms 
problem with purchasing stemmed from anything it had done incorrectly.  Further, it said the 
systemic technical error Mr M had talked about had not affected Mr M. Therefore it declined 
Mr Ms request for compensation of £450 and did not uphold his complaint.
Dissatisfied Mr M complained to our service.
Once Mr Ms complaint was with us Klarna Bank provided more information about its stance. 
It told us Mr M had been unable to complete the transaction because he had insufficient 
funds in his account to do so. 
However, Mr M provided new information that related to subsequent attempts hed made to 
purchase items using credit from his account. He thought this information shed light on what 
had gone wrong when he tried to make his original purchase.
Klarna Bank agreed that this new information was relevant. Klarna Bank looked at 
everything afresh. When it did so it realised that a technical issue had prevented Mr M from 
using credit from his account to make the original purchase and the subsequent purchases. 
To correct this it said. 
We have now put in place a tailored solution for [Mr M].
Also Klarna Bank indicated that it would have to work with G to sort out a more permanent 
solution. To put things right it made an offer which it said would put Mr M in the position he 
would have been in if the original purchase had gone ahead. Therefore it offered him £400. It 
also offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr M declined this offer, he did not consider this was enough. Ive summarised why Mr M 
came to this conclusion. In Mr Ms opinion Klarna Bank had taken far too long to realise what 
had gone wrong and sort it out. He pointed out that without his tenacity Klarna Bank would 
not have investigated further and discovered the technical issue that required the tailored 
solution for him. He expressed dissatisfaction with the initial investigation Klarna Bank 
carried out. He indicated its investigation had been characterised by delay and inaccurate 
information. Mr M considered some of that inaccurate information had been given on 
purpose by Klarna Bank knowing it to be false.
Moreover, the offer did not cover the 10% he would have got back if the purchase had gone 
ahead. Mr M told us that Klarna Banks actions had caused him so much stress it had 
caused him to lose sleep and quarrel with his wife. When he took into account the guidance 
about the awards for distress and inconvenience on this services internet site the £50 for 
goodwill was insufficient. Mr M suggested a total payment of £1,300 was more appropriate.
We shared Mr Ms misgivings about its offer with Klarna Bank. Klarna Bank responded:
Having taken into consideration the time taken to resolve [Mr M] and his instrumental role 
throughout the investigation, along with the time given, distress and inconvenience 
experienced, Klarna would like to offer £600.00 compensation.
Mr M rejected Klarna Banks revised offer for the reasons he rejected the first offer.
Our investigator endorsed Klarna Banks offer as he thought it was fair. Therefore he did not 
recommend it had to take any further action than this.
Mr M rejected our investigators recommendation for the reasons he had given before. Mr M 
also added that he wanted details of his complaint to be published and explained why that 
was.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Klarnas offer covers the financial losses that Mr M initially said hed made. I recognise he 
has subsequently said that the £450 he asked for at first does not fully cover his financial 
loss. But I dont see why his original assessment would have been inaccurate, no new 
information has come to light between then and now about this part of his complaint as far 
as I am aware. Therefore I dont agree it is fair and reasonable to say Klarna Bank has to 
pay more in relation to this part of Mr Ms complaint.
The bigger issue here appears to be the amount that Klarna Bank is offering for distress and 
inconvenience, £150. I think it is undisputable that if Mr M had not provided new evidence he 
would not have received any offer of redress. He has shown resilience and he should not 
have had to do so, just to get the correct answer. His frustration with Klarna Banks 
behaviour jumps off the page and it is regrettable that this his caused him to experience distress and inconvenience.  All Mr M was trying to do was to make a payment and that was 
what his account with set up to help him do. In short, it really should not have come to this.
That said, on balance, I dont agree I can fairly say that Klarna Bank caused unnecessary 
delays. I say this because Klarna Bank took a few weeks to give Mr M its first final response, 
which I dont find unreasonable.  It found a credible reason for the failure of Mr Ms 
transaction, as far as I can see it had good cause to think this reason was correct. I am not 
satisfied it purposefully gave inaccurate information. I say this because I cant see why it 
would risk reputational damage, as well as risk alienating its customer, and breaching its 
regulatory obligations to provide truthful information, over this one isolated matter.
Mr M points to how long overall this complaint has taken and I can see why he places weight 
on this. But I dont see it the same way. As I mention above the first time Mr M complained 
he got a prompt, albeit inadvertently inaccurate response. Then Mr M provided new 
information and when Klarna Bank received that information it took around a month to 
respond. It seems likely that when investigating this technical issue it had to talk to G. That in 
itself would have added time which Klarna Bank could not control. Further, by their nature 
technical issues tend not to be simple to identify right up front. Therefore I think Klarna Bank 
did enough here.
I also thought about what Mr M says about communicating with frontline staff who provided 
information that was unhelpful and ultimately wrong, when he was trying to carry out his 
transaction. In the circumstances Id have expected all those members of staff to give the 
same advice. And this suggests there was some lack of consistency in staff systems and 
training. What staff systems and staff training a financial business has in place is an internal 
matter for individual businesses to decide. We dont have the power to tell a business to 
change its systems. But we can look at whether those systems mean that Mr M was treated 
unfairly. Thats what Ive thought about here.
I do get that Mr M found his experience with the frontline staff frustrating and likely confusing 
too. However, I think in all probability those members of staff gave the best help they could 
albeit they gave differing advice. I dont think it likely theyd have been able to tell at the time 
that the issue was a technical one. In other words, I just dont think they were in a position to 
get to the bottom of things. Especially since it appears it was not a systematic issue because 
Klarna Bank tells us the technical issue required a tailored solution for Mr M. I dont find it 
likely in the circumstances that what Klarna Bank has said about this is incorrect. Though I 
do take on board Mr Ms customer experience with Klarna Bank here fell below the standard 
he was entitled to expect.
I also take on board Mr M has looked at our website and read what weve said about awards 
for distress and inconvenience. He tells us he falls into the bracket where an award of at 
least £550 should be made. Whilst I accept that this is Mr M s assessment it is not mine. 
Rather, overall I think an award of £150 for distress and inconvenience is appropriate, for the 
reasons I have set out above. This means that Klarna Bank has to pay Mr M £600 in total, as 
it has already offered to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that Klarna Bank AB (publ) must pay Mr M £600 in total as it has already 
offered to do.
It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr M accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr M can reclaim the tax if he is able to.Mr M should refer back to Klarna Bank if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman