DRN-2059446
The complaint
Mr A complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to refund his deposit after accepting 
the rejection of a faulty car.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr A acquired a second-hand car costing £5,798 funded by a deposit of £500 
and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. Mr A had problems with the car and in July 
2019 MotoNovo agreed to the car being rejected. It agreed to unwind the agreement. Mr A 
had covered 4,000 miles and had made two payments totalling £289.74. 
On the return of the car the dealer says it identified the following damage 
Wing mirror scuffed OS - £60
Both front alloys scuffed - £180 (£90 per alloy)
Car dirty inside requires full valet - £50
Scratch in boot lid - £250
50p size dent to NSRQ on the swage line of the car  requires paint - £200
2x replacement keys - £478
MotoNovo said it would normally charge a monthly payment for each 1,000 miles done and 
also for the damage. It suggested that it retain the deposit of £500 instead which it believed 
was fair. Mr A didnt agree, apart from the valet, and asked that his deposit be refunded. 
Initially, he took legal action against the dealer, but dropped this when he realised he needed 
to deal with MotoNovo. His complaint was rejected by MotoNovo and Mr A brought the 
matter to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who initially thought Mr A should be repaid his 
deposit. MotoNovo didnt agree and supplied details of the state of the car when the dealer 
bought it and photos of the car after it had been returned by Mr A. Our investigator 
reconsidered her opinion and concluded that Mr A should be responsible for the valet and 
the two replacement keys which came to £538.
MotoNovo said that it hadnt been seeking to charge Mr A for the damages but had simply 
felt that retaining his deposit of £500 would go towards the damage and his use of the car.
Mr A didnt agree with the second opinion and obtained a witness statement from a 
mechanic who had worked for the dealer and who had delivered the car and had worked on 
it. He confirmed that the two keys given to Mr A had been damaged and they had been 
returned in the same state. He also said the car was in the same state as when it had been 
sold apart from needing a valet. MotoNovo didnt accept this as unbiased evidence. 
The complaint was considered by a second investigator who reviewed the photos of the car 
and concluded that it was in a fair condition for its age and mileage. She also reviewed the 
report of state of the car when it was bought by the dealer. It had supplied reports for a 
number of cars and she noted these contained more details than had been shown for Mr As 
car. She also thought it unlikely that Mr A had damaged both keys and had then taped them 
up in short period of possession of the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 While I have some sympathy with MotoNovos position I consider this complaint should be 
upheld. I will explain why.
I agree that it took a responsible approach to Mr As initial complaint and agreed to rejection. 
Under these circumstances it is normal to repay any deposit paid by the consumer. 
However, I see why it took the netting off approach as a quick and easy way of finalising 
matters. 
I appreciate the rule of thumb used by the business to charge one monthly payment for each 
1,000 miles covered, but this doesnt always result in a fair outcome. In this case Mr A had to 
deal with a faulty car from the outset and the first repair wasnt successful. He also had to 
deal with the dealer which was not inclined to allow rejection. 
It is not clear that the car was in a worse state when it was returned than when it was sold. 
The initial report by the dealer is not as comprehensive as one might expect and certainly 
less detailed that others. The photographs dont show when the damage occurred and 
without an independent report it is hard for me to conclude that they were caused by Mr A.
I appreciate MotoNovos comments about the mechanics witness statement and it may be 
biased, just as the dealers comments may also be biased. I have to weigh up the evidence 
put forward by both parties. The car was elderly and the marks/damage do not seem to be 
out of place on such a car. I dont consider that I can say that these occurred while Mr A had 
the car without independent evidence to the contrary. 
Normally I would expect to see an independent report from an agent acting for MotoNovo 
when the car was collected which would substantiate any damages claim. As for the 
damaged keys I am not persuaded they were in a worse condition after Mr As period of use. 
I do find the mechanics statement credible and so I dont think it fair to say that Mr A 
incurred chargeable damage.
Putting things right
 I consider Mr As deposit should be returned.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
repay the deposit of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman