DRN-3858595
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refused to agree a 
payment plan for his overdraft and failed to inform him of the impact on his credit file of the 
three-month arrangement that was put in place.  
What happened
Mr W says he switched his bank account from Halifax in May 2022. Mr W says he contacted 
Halifax in late June 2022 to come to an arrangement regarding the outstanding overdraft on 
his bank account, but it refused to agree a monthly payment plan. Mr W says after he 
complained about this he was passed to a manager who agreed a three-month nil plan to 
pay what he could. Mr W says during that telephone call he was informed there would be no 
impact on his credit file, but he has subsequently discovered his credit file has been marked 
with two missed payments and this has affected his credit file and ability to obtain credit 
elsewhere. Mr W says if he had been properly advised of the impact on his credit file, he 
would have made arrangements to clear the debt. 
Mr W wants Halifax to amend his credit file and pay him compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Halifax says it has apologised to Mr W that its member of staff didnt fully explain the 
potential impact on his credit file when setting up the three-month nil plan. Halifax says it has 
paid Mr W £70 by way of apology and the outstanding borrowing has now been repaid. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to decline to set up a payment plan as Mr 
W had refused to complete an income and expenditure profile at the time. The investigator 
says Halifax did however agree to a three-month nil payment plan, without any interest being 
charged. 
The investigator felt while Halifax could have been clearer regarding the impact on Mr Ws 
credit file, it had indicated this arrangement would be reported  so Mr W could have repaid 
the outstanding balance if he had wished to. The investigator says Halifax had an obligation 
to report factual information to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how Ive come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it may have been unclear to Mr W that the arrangement he had agreed with 
Halifax would result in this being passed to the relevant credit reference agencies, especially 
when he believed it wouldnt. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted fairly when it agreed a three-
month nil plan rather than a set payment plan with Mr W and having done so, then reported 
this arrangement to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr Ws complaint centres around the issues he had with Halifax when he contacted them in 
late June 2022, to deal with his outstanding overdraft. Mr W says Halifax initially refused to 
put in place a set payment plan but after he complained it agreed a three-month nil payment 
arrangement, meaning he would need to pay the remaining overdraft by this time.  
Mr W also says Halifax suggested his credit file wouldnt be impacted by this arrangement, 
when in fact it was and missed payment markers had been recorded, damaging his credit 
rating. 
I understand the points Mr W makes here but Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this as its worth mentioning Mr W had taken the decision to transfer his main banking from 
Halifax in mid May 2022 leaving in place an unauthorised overdraft as a result. From the 
information I have seen Mr W didnt contact Halifax until the end of June 2022, to discuss his 
plans to deal with this. 
I have listened to a telephone call recording Mr W held with Halifax in late June 2022, and 
when the Halifax member of staff asked Mr W at that time for an income and expenditure 
profile to gain a fuller understanding of his financial position, he refused to do so saying 
there was no point as his expenses outstripped his income. At this point Mr W was 
transferred to a supervisor who then agreed a one-off arrangement whereby no interest or 
charges would be applied for three-months, and his financial situation would be reviewed 
after that, if Mr W wasnt in a position to clear what was outstanding. 
So, its not unreasonable that a fixed payment plan couldnt be agreed. Afterall, Halifax as a 
responsible lender would need to be clear Mr W could afford any plan agreed, to avoid any 
further financial problems for him. With that in mind I am satisfied Halifax did provide the 
flexible level of support I would expect here, and it confirmed the arrangements with Mr W in 
writing the same day. 
Mr W also says he wasnt told of the impact this arrangement would have on his credit file 
but its worth mentioning that during the telephone call, Mr W was initially informed his credit 
file would reflect that a payment arrangement would be in place. I can see that in the 
confirmation letter Mr W was sent regarding the three-month nil plan, it does explain there 
may be an impact on Mr Ws credit file. So, if Mr W was uncertain about this at that time, he 
could have contacted Halifax for further clarification.  
Its also fair to say even if Halifax had agreed a set payment plan, as Mr W says he would 
have preferred, that arrangement would have needed to be recorded as a payment 
arrangement with the credit agencies as well. Mr W says he has two missed payments 
markers recorded on his credit file but from the information I have seen, Halifax did report an 
arrangement was in place between June 2022 and September 2022 and in the information 
provided to this service, this was correctly recorded as AR  meaning an arrangement to 
pay  as I would expect. Mr W has provided a screen shot of another reference agency 
credit report showing missed payments. 
All I can say here is Halifax arent in control of how certain agencies report the information it 
provides them, but Mr W can raise this with the credit reference agency concerned to seek clarification and possibly lodge what is known as a notice of correction. But here Im satisfied 
Halifax have correctly informed the credit agencies that an arrangement was in place  after 
all it was. Mr W says he was unable to obtain credit elsewhere because of missed payments 
recorded, but the screen shot he provided also mentions this could also be because hes in a 
payment plan, which was the case here. 
Halifax have accepted perhaps it could have been clearer that any notice to the credit 
agencies could have a negative impact on his credit file and paid Mr W £70 for that, which I 
am satisfied was reasonable of them in the circumstances. Afterall, Halifax would have an 
obligation to accurately record Mr Ws bank account activity to the relevant credit agencies 
and Im satisfied it did that here. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman