DRN-1827474
Complaint
Ms C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms C bought the policy in 1996, at the same time as taking out a credit card. It covered her 
in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Ms C and Lloyds a provisional decision on 12 April 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Ms Cs credit card application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It 
gave an overview of the policys purpose and cost. Then there was a box that could be 
ticked if Ms C wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was 
ticked and Ms C signed the form to confirm her choices. Ive sent Ms C the record of her 
application, along with a clearer sample copy. Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds 
sales process from the time  from what Ive seen, in order to get PPI, customers needed to 
actively choose it. And Ive not seen any evidence showing that Ms C was misled into having 
PPI here. I think its most likely that Lloyds made Ms C aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer 
recalls doing so after so many years.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms C, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, it looks like Ms C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. While she did some freelance work in addition to her normal job, 
that only involved a relatively small number of hours, so that shouldnt have affected her 
ability to claim. And Ms C doesnt appear to have had any other protection in case she was 
off sick in the long-term or lost her main job. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for 
her in her circumstances.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Ms C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms C chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Ms C if something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms C could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 May 2020. But neither Ms C nor Lloyds sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman