DRN-4034321
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about a second charge mortgage (secured loan) with Prestige 
Finance Limited. They say the loan was mis-sold to them because they werent made aware 
that it was sold on interest only terms.
Mr and Mrs V are represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs V took out their loan in 2007 on an interest only basis. They borrowed around 
£48,000 over a term of 15 years with another lender. The loan was later transferred to 
Prestige, which is responsible for answering this complaint.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs V say they reached an arrangement to overpay each month, to ensure 
the loan was paid off by the end of the term. But they say that in 2021 Prestige said no such 
arrangement was in place.
In 2021, the CMC complained on Mr and Mrs Vs behalf. It said they had taken secured 
loans before, in 2005 and 2006. Those loans were on repayment terms, and Mr and Mrs V 
understood that this was a repayment loan too. The CMC said that when Mr and Mrs V 
realised the situation, they repeatedly contacted Prestige to ask for the loan to be switched 
over to repayment, but were told no changes could be made.
The CMC complained that Prestige had failed to communicate the nature of the loan clearly 
and fairly at the point of sale, and that as a result an unsuitable loan had been arranged  
both because of the nature of the loan and how it was sold, and because it consolidated 
unsecured debts. It complained that the loan extended past their retirement ages, and that 
there were no checks of whether this was affordable to them. And it complained that 
Prestige entered into an arrangement in 2020 but denied it in 2021, and that in 2021 it 
offered a reduced settlement figure and then said it hadnt done so. It also said Prestige sent 
Mr and Mrs V a letter with an incorrect balance. The CMC said the remaining loan balance 
should be written off and Prestige should pay Mr and Mrs V compensation.
Prestige said the loan was sold by a broker, not the original lender. It said the application 
paperwork made clear the loan was sold on an interest only basis. And it said it hadnt 
reached an arrangement to clear the capital in 2020  it had reached an arrangement to pay 
off a coronavirus payment deferral.
Ive previously said that we cant consider the complaint about the loan being taken out, as 
that complaint falls outside our jurisdiction. But we can consider what happened in 2020 and 
2021. What follows are my conclusions on the merits of that complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I found in my jurisdiction decision that this is an interest only loan, and that Mr and Mrs V 
have known for many years  if not from the start  that this is an interest only loan. They 
signed the application form applying for an interest only loan, and a declaration explaining 
how theyd pay off the capital balance at the end of the term. The loan documentation makes 
clear its an interest only loan. And theyve complained about that on several occasions in 
the past.
Mr and Mrs V say that they agreed an arrangement with Prestige in 2020, whereby if they 
maintained the agreed payments, the loan would be cleared by the end of the term. They 
say that they kept to this arrangement for over a year  only to be told that the loan wouldnt 
be paid off after all, and that Prestige denied making that arrangement with them. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs V took a coronavirus payment deferral. This meant they made no 
payments during the deferral period, and then at the end of the deferral an arrangement 
would need to be made for the deferred payments to be made up. According to the 
regulators guidance at the time, this could be done by agreeing an additional contribution 
each month, or by adding the deferred amount to the loan balance, among other options.
On 17 August 2020, there is a call note in Prestiges records:
Mr called in what is he due to pay per month to ensure when loan expires there 
wont be a balance left advised approx. £377. Mr advised can he have a letter 
explaining that.
On 21 August 2020, Prestige wrote to Mr and Mrs V saying
We refer to our telephone conversation on 17th August 2020, as discussed you 
would need to increase your monthly instalment to £377.08 per month to ensure that 
when your loan expires on the 1st August 2022 there will be no balance outstanding.
On 27 August 2020, there is another call note which says:
Mr called in questioned letter re balance at term etc  I adv[ised] interest only so he 
will have a balance at term end as only addressing interest if he makes the increased 
payments it means he wont have anything more than he should have but original 
balance will remain  so he might want to explore his options  he asked for this in 
writing
On the same day, Prestige wrote to Mr and Mrs V saying:
We write further to our telephone conversation with you and options of increased 
payments as advised in our letter dated 21st August to £377.51 however this covers 
the interest that was accumulated from the 6 month payment holiday. You will still 
have a balance at the end of the term as this loan is interest only.
There are then further calls during 2020 and 2021 in which Mr and Mrs V query the balance 
and the amount outstanding and are informed that this is an interest only loan, that the 
capital balance will be outstanding at the end of the term, and that Mr and Mrs V will need a 
way to repay it.
It's clear theres been some confusion and miscommunication here. I think what Prestige 
intended was to tell Mr and Mrs V what they would need to pay to cover the deferred 
payments to ensure that they only had the original capital outstanding at the end of the term. 
But what it actually told them on 17 and 20 August was that if they made those payments, the entire loan would be paid off by the end of the term. This is clearly incorrect. And 
Prestige corrected this on 27 August 2020.
Its unfortunate that Prestige gave Mr and Mrs V misleading information. But it was corrected 
within a few days  as I would expect. And given Mr and Mrs V knew they had an interest 
only loan, and knew theyd only been making interest payments, I dont think they can 
reasonably have believed that the letter of 20 August was correct. And indeed the call of 27 
August suggests they didnt think it was  since they called to check what theyd been told.
Im therefore satisfied that Prestige did not enter into an arrangement whereby the loan 
would be paid off by the end of the term if Mr and Mrs V paid £377 per month. I dont think 
there was any reasonable basis for Mr and Mrs V to conclude that it had done. And while 
Prestige did make a mistake, it corrected it quickly and I dont think expecting it to write off 
the loan balance is a proportionate response to that mistake. 
Finally, Ive not seen any evidence that Prestige made a reduced settlement offer in 2021. It 
did send a letter with an incorrect balance figure, but the balance was obviously wrong, Mr V 
queried it immediately and Prestige confirmed it was a mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that in correcting its mistakes within a few days 
Prestige acted fairly and reasonably, and the mistakes did not cause Mr and Mrs V any 
substantial detriment. And so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman