DRN-1747606
complaint
Mr F says that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that Lending stream didnt complete sufficient checks when providing him with finance. 
background
This complaint is about six loans that Lending Stream provided Mr F between September 
2018 and March 2019.
Mr Fs borrowing history is as follows.
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount*Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 03/09/2018 11/01/2019 6 £300.00 £78.67
2 11/12/2018 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £201.26
3 11/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £260.00 £201.92
4 15/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £120.00 £245.13
5 10/02/2019 Outstanding 6 £90.00 £272.58
6 12/03/2019 Outstanding 6 £120.00 £309.09
*Some of Mr Fs loans overlapped  so this figure is the highest total amount due in any one month.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that loans five and six shouldnt have 
been given to Mr F.
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicators recommendation  but Mr F disagreed, 
although he didnt provide any reasons for doing so.
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, Lending Stream should not have provided Mr F with loan five  
or any subsequent loans, as at the time he applied for loan five, Lending Stream shouldve 
been seeing signs that he was likely to be having difficulties repaying his loans in a 
sustainable way. And having looked at Mr Fs complaint  I agree.
At the time he applied for loan five Mr F already had outstanding short-term loans, and 
although loan five was the smallest loan he had applied for  his overall repayments had 
increased substantially. And I dont think that Lending Stream shouldve continued its lending 
relationship with him.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr F, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mr F was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr F had taken out six loans in under seven months and Mr F 
had been indebted to Lending Stream for the time. So Lending Stream ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr F wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 
six was taken out six months after Mr Fs first. And although it was for a smaller 
amount than his first loan, he already had four loans outstanding  so his 
indebtedness was increasing  and the combined repayment was the highest to date 
at four times as much as his initial repayment at loan one. And Mr F had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr F lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
six because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr F borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans five and six and Lending Stream should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
You shouldnt have given Mr F loans five and six.
If you have sold the outstanding debts, you should buy these back if you are able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If you are not able to buy the debts back, then you should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A)You should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything you have already refunded.
B)You should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)You should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr F having 
made overpayments then you should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. You should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D)If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans [and any 
principal youve already written-off]. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should 
be paid to Mr F. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then you should try 
to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F. You shouldnt pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal you have already written-off.
E)You should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation 
to loan five. The overall pattern of Mr Fs borrowing for six means any information 
recorded this loan is adverse, so you should remove this loan entirely from Mr Fs 
credit file. You do not have to remove six from Mr Fs credit file until it have been 
repaid, but you should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give Mr F a 
certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should put things right set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman