DRN-4009681
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) dealt 
with her when she was unable to make her credit card payments due to financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss Ps first missed credit card payment was in December 2021. Barclays put breathing 
space holds on the account in January, February, March and April 2022. After the minimum 
payment was missed for four months, the card was cancelled on 6 April 2022 and a default 
notice sent on 7 April 2022. Miss P paid off the arrears in full around that time and then 
made an arrangement to pay £79 per month in May 2022. 
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted within the terms and conditions of the credit 
card agreement and so did not uphold the complaint. Miss P disagrees with the 
investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the calls that Miss P had with Barclays.
Following her first missed payment, Miss P rang on 24 January 2022 to explain her situation. 
This was that she was self-employed and that a contract had fallen through. However, shed 
had confirmation that it would start the following month and so she thought shed be able to 
catch up by March 2022 and would be able to maintain her minimum payments thereafter. 
So, the indication at this point was that Miss P would probably miss three payments and then 
resume normal management of the account. 
Barclays offered to put her account on hold for 30 days. It was explained that she could ring 
up again to arrange a further hold. The adviser then read out a statement with regard to the 
hold that said: During the hold late payments will continue to be reported on your credit file 
and this could make it harder for you to get credit in the future as well. You are unable to 
spend on the card while it is on hold and any further missed payments could result in your 
card being cancelled. This means youre not able to spend on the card again and once your 
balance is cleared your account will be closed permanently. We will not apply interest and 
fees on your next statement. If we have not heard from you in the next 30 days we will 
assume you are able to make your standard monthly payments and will reinstate interest. 
You will not be charged additional fees whilst you are behind with payments. You may 
receive your monthly statements asking you to make your new minimum payment. Although 
this will be higher, we understand that you are unable to do it at the moment and will send 
you a letter to confirm what we have agreed today. Miss P then queries that the account will 
be closed once shed paid off the arrears and is told that would only happen if she continued 
to miss payments.
Miss P then rang Barclays on 16 February 2022 saying she was confused because shed 
received an arrears notice even though the account was on hold. The adviser explains that 
was because two direct debits for the minimum payment had been missed. Although Miss P 
was adamant that was not what was agreed, having listened to the call on 24 January 2022, 
Im satisfied she was told that shed still get bills asking for the minimum monthly payment 
and that late payments would be recorded, although it understood that she wouldnt be able 
to pay them until she got paid in March 2022.
On 7 March 2022 Miss P called Barclays to arrange a further hold on the account but 
explained that she expected to be starting a permanent job soon. She says she doesnt want 
to enter into any sort of agreement and just wanted to pay it all back. The adviser tells Miss 
P that she is currently three months behind and that, if she was planning on clearing the 
arrears, it would have to be the full minimum payment which would probably be over £400 at 
the next statement date. He asks Miss P if that would be affordable to clear, to which she 
replies: once I get this job it will.
The adviser says that they should really go through an income and expenditure review with 
Miss P to ensure she can afford to do that but she says shed prefer to wait until she knows 
what her payday is going to be. Its agreed that a further 30 day hold will be put on the 
account and the adviser then reads out the standard statement in relation to the hold. Miss P 
again queries the part about the account being closed. The adviser explains that if there are 
any further missed payments, the card will be cancelled and, once the balance is reduced to 
zero, the account will be permanently closed.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it was made clear to Miss P that a further 
missed payment would result in the card being cancelled. Although Miss P says she was 
never informed that the card was cancelled, I can see that her 6 April 2022 statement 
informs her that the card had been cancelled and that she should now destroy it.
On 19 April 2022, Miss P called Barclays about a notice of default (NOD) shed received. 
She was told that it had been issued because four payments had been missed. She was 
also told that she could only avoid the account defaulting by paying the full arrears or by 
putting a payment plan in place. Miss P was adamant that she didnt want to make a 
payment arrangement as she didnt want that to show on her credit file. Miss P says she was 
told that the only way to clear her arrears over a few months was via a third party debt 
collector. However, having listened to this call and others, whilst she is regularly asked if she 
would like to set up a repayment plan, I havent heard any mention of third party debt 
collectors being involved. It is confirmed that any plan would show on her credit file as an 
arrangement to pay, which is perhaps where some confusion has arisen.
Although Miss P was requesting two months to catch up with her arrears, Im satisfied that, 
because the NOD had been issued, the adviser correctly informed her that the only options 
were to pay the arrears in full or agree to a repayment arrangement.
In order to avoid the account defaulting, Miss P then did find a way to pay the full arrears, 
which I understand wasnt easy for her to do. 
The issue here seems to be that there is a disparity between Miss Ps expectations of what 
Barclays should offer and the reality of what Barclays was offering. This leads to them 
talking at cross purposes for much of the time. I think much of this has to do with a 
misunderstanding of what an account being on hold actually meant. 
From Miss Ps point of view, she was a long-standing customer with a perfect payment 
record of 20 years. She proactively contacted Barclays to keep them informed of the 
situation, including when she expected to start getting paid again. As such, she thought it would be able to freeze her account, with no payments due, and then allow her the time to 
catch up with the arrears once she started work. I understand how Miss P would assume this 
would be possible. I have a great deal of sympathy for her outlook in that she just wanted to 
pay the arrears off as soon as possible once she was receiving an income, at her discretion 
and without entering into a formal plan. However, when looking at whether Barclays has 
acted fairly and reasonably, I need to look at its actions within the context of what it told her, 
the accounts terms and conditions and regulatory requirements.
Miss P says her situation was treated with a lack of compassion. However, listening to the 
phone calls, Barclays does try to assist her and doesnt put any pressure on her to make 
payments she cant afford. She is immediately offered a hold on the account so that she 
doesnt have to pay interest or fees and that hold is renewed over a number of months. She 
is offered a reduced repayment plan but declines it on the basis that she doesnt want that to 
appear on her credit file, even though she was aware that the late payments and arrears 
were already being recorded on her credit file. Im satisfied she was told that missed 
payments might result in her card being cancelled and that, after having missed three 
payments, that a further missed payment would close the account. 
Miss P says she wasnt given a decent grace period. But Barclays waited four months before 
it issued the NOD. I appreciate that Miss P had kept Barclays informed of her situation and 
when she could likely pay the arrears, even though that timescale slipped from what she 
originally said. However, overall, I consider it reasonable of Barclays not to rely on a promise 
to pay to delay enforcement action.
As our investigator has explained, Barclays process is to issue a default notice after four 
missed payments and this is in line with its regulatory obligations and the Information 
Commissioners Office guidance on default notices. Under the credit agreement, minimum 
payments were unable to be suspended. And Barclays was also entitled to cancel the card 
after four missed payments and then to close the account once the balance had been paid 
off. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Miss P has said. I understand that having no income 
and then having to deal with Barclays was extremely stressful. However, overall, Im unable 
to conclude that Barclays treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman