DRN-2129979
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Admiral Financial Services Ltd made an error when setting up a direct 
debit.
What happened
Mr C had a loan with Admiral and the payments were due to be collected by direct debit on 
the 6th of each month. Mr C cancelled his direct debit with his bank on 2 October 2019. He 
called Admiral the following day to set up a new direct debit. Because of the time it takes a 
direct debit to be set up, the direct debit for 6 October 2019 wasnt collected. 
Admiral asked Mr C to make this payment manually, but he didnt think that it was his 
responsibility to do this  he thought Admiral should collect the payment by direct debit. So 
the payment remains unpaid, and Admiral have been reporting the missing payment to the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr C complained that Admiral didnt tell him, when he called to change his bank details on 3 
October 2019, that the 6 October 2019 payment wouldnt be collected by direct debit. Hes 
also unhappy that hes been asked to pay this manually. Admiral said they shouldve told Mr 
C about his October 2019 payment, but they didnt. So they removed the missed payment 
marker and the missed payment charges for October 2019. But they said the payment still 
needs to be made.
Mr C didnt agree with this. He felt that it was Admirals fault the payment wasnt collected, 
so he thought Admiral should waive the missed payment. Because Admiral wouldnt agree to 
this, Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Admiral shouldve told Mr C that his payment for 6 October 2019 
wouldnt be collected by direct debit. But she thought theyd acted reasonably by waiving the 
charges and removing the missed payment marker. And she thought Admiral had also acted 
reasonably by telling Mr C he needed to make the missing payment. So she didnt think 
Admiral needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said that just because Admiral said they sent him 
text messages and letters, it doesnt mean they did  Admiral havent imformed {sic} me of 
any missed payments once. He also doesnt think its fair that Admiral made a mistake and 
theyre refusing to rectify it. He thinks they shouldve collected the October 2019 payment by 
direct debit and, because they didnt, they should now waive the payment. So hes asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
C, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The basic facts arent disputed. Mr C cancelled his direct debit and, when he called Admiral 
to set up a new one, they didnt tell him that the October 2019 direct debit wouldnt be 
collected. And hed need to pay this manually over the phone.
Mr C has said Admiral made a mistake and theyve refused to rectify it. I agree they made a 
mistake, but I also think they took appropriate action to rectify this. They removed the 
charges for the missed payment, and they removed the October 2019 missed payment 
marker from the credit reference agencies. They also paid Mr C £25 by way of an apology 
for their mistake. I think this was reasonable and is in line with what Id expect them to do.
Admiral say they cant collect the missing payment by direct debit, and it needs to be paid 
manually. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell financial businesses 
what policies and procedures they can and cant have in place. This is a decision Admiral 
can make in line with its regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. For this reason I wont 
comment further on the methods Mr C can use to make the missing payment. But this 
doesnt mean that Mr C doesnt have to make the payment.
Admiral have said they spoke to Mr C on 9 October 2019, but it wasnt convenient for him to 
talk. Admiral asked him to call back, but he didnt. Admiral also say they sent Mr C text 
messages and letters on 10, 15 and 22 October 2019, to tell him about the missed payment. 
I havent heard a recording of the call on 9 October 2019, and I havent seen any text 
messages Mr C received. But I have seen the letters of 10 and 15 October 2019. These tell 
Mr C his account was in arrears, and how he could make the missing payment. But Ive also 
noted Mr C says he didnt receive these letters. So he says he didnt know that the payment 
was missing. 
Admiral also say they spoke to Mr C on 24 October 2019 and, while it wasnt a clear line, 
they made him aware that a payment was missing. But Mr C says this was a conversation 
about Admiral not being able to take the payment by direct debit, not about the payment 
being missing. So he says he wasnt aware this was the case.
I havent heard a recording of the call on 24 October 2019. But Admiral explained there was 
a missing payment in their final complaint response letter emailed to Mr C 6 November 2019. 
This letter also explained that Mr C needed to pay this, and how to make the payment. As Mr 
C provided us with a copy of this letter when he first raised his complaint about Admiral, Im 
satisfied that he was aware the payment was missing by no later than 6 November 2019.
If Mr C had paid the missing payment in November 2019, no missing payments or arrears 
would be showing on his credit file. But, despite him knowing by no later than 6 November 
2019 that this payment needed to be paid, Mr C chose not to make the payment. 
Admiral have an obligation to report correct and up to date financial information to the credit 
reference agencies. So I dont think they did anything wrong by reporting the missed 
payment. And because this remains outstanding, Admiral havent done anything wrong by 
reporting on a monthly basis that the payment still hasnt been paid. So I wont be asking 
Admiral to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Admiral Financial 
Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman