DRN-4006268
The complaint
Ms N complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) increased her 
credit limit excessively and recklessly and that this led to Amex also unfairly increasing the 
interest rate on her account.
Ms N has also raised complaints about how the closing of her account was managed and 
the loss of valuable travel vouchers when this happened. In addition, Ms N complained 
about the way credit searches were conducted and the wording on her credit card 
statements.
What happened
Ms N took out a credit card with Amex in 2015 with an initial limit of £3,700. Over the years, 
Ms Ns credit limit was increased eight times until in March 2022 it reached £35,100. Ms N 
was offered the opportunity to decline the credit limit increase but did not do so.
In July 2022 Amex reviewed Ms Ns account and noted a change in her Credit Bureau profile 
since the credit limit increase in March 2022. As a result of that change, Amex decided to 
increase the interest rate Ms N was paying if she didnt pay off her balance each month in 
full. 
Ms N says that the increases in her credit limit were made excessively and recklessly. She 
says that the decision to later increase her interest rate was unfair as her risk was already 
high based on her credit report and history with Amex and had been since 2017 and yet 
Amex continued to offer her more credit. She says Amex was reckless on more than one 
occasion in increasing her credit limit beyond what she could handle. In correspondence with 
Amex, Ms N has said that its actions have left her in, or close to, a position of persistent 
debt.  Ms N also complains that Amex ran a credit check on her without her permission in 
October 2022 and that the off boarding process when she closed her account was not fair. 
Ms N acknowledges that she has issues with spending and that she is addressing these, but 
she says any borrowing she did was on the presumption that her interest rate would also 
remain fair.
Amex didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint, so she brought it to this service. 
Ms N wants Amex to admit it was reckless and did not do the proper checks before lending 
her more money; to admit that it should not have viewed her credit report without letting her 
know and to admit that her spending patterns (as evidenced by her Amex statements) were 
risky and Amex should have taken this into account before July 2022. Ms N says she would 
also like Amex to work with the Information Commissioners Office to refine and update their 
credit search policy to ensure it complies with regulations. Ms N seeks: an apology from 
Amex; a commitment to improve its offboarding process; to be compensated for the loss of 
the airline vouchers; a refund of interest on any inappropriate lending limits and for Amex to 
provide a lower interest rate for the remaining balance. 
 
Our investigator reviewed Ms Ns complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms N didnt 
agree with our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
In making my decision I have reviewed over one thousand pages of evidence. This decision 
will not reference every document seen. I refer directly only to that information which I 
consider relevant to Ms Ns complaint, but I can assure both parties that I have read and 
considered all of the material. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Ms Ns complaint.
Although Ms Ns complaint has several limbs to it, I shall consider the crux of the complaint 
first  the matter of whether Amex made fair lending decisions. 
I need to consider whether Amex did everything it was required to do and, if it didnt, whether 
Ms N lost out as a result.  
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the Office of Fair Tradings Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) (the relevant rules). 
The relevant rules, regulation and guidance all refer to a lender needing to make sure a 
borrower is able to sustainably repay any credit provided. And being able to sustainably 
repay credit is described as doing so without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other 
commitments and without having to borrow further.
Amex needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms N 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in the sustainable manner I have described 
above. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Ms Ns income and expenditure. There 
may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ms N has said that she isnt claiming that she could not afford the credit she was borrowing 
and is (and, by inference, was) able to make her repayments, with the exception of a short 
period in 2020. Ms N says, though, that increasing her interest rate and encouraging her to 
borrow more has put her under pressure. She claims that Amexs lending to her was 
reckless. 
However Ms N chooses to frame her complaint, Im satisfied that I need to consider whether 
Amex made fair and reasonable decisions when it increased Ms Ns credit limit before I go 
on to consider other parts of Ms Ns complaint. 
Ms Ns primary complaint in relation to irresponsible (or reckless) lending is in relation to the 
March 2022 increase. Although I concentrate this decision on that lending decision, the 
same principles apply to every credit limit increase and the initial lending.We asked Amex for evidence of the checks it did when it increased Ms Ns credit limit in 
2022. It said that Ms N had a good repayment history and no negative action had been taken 
on her account. It also provided some basic information it held, including Ms Ns bureau 
scores. These are credit scores provided to lenders by credit reference agencies which are 
generally limited to public data, for example entry on the electoral roll, insolvency and county 
court judgments. These dont show whether someone is over-indebted or how they are 
managing credit if they arent in default. Amex has not explained whether its bureau data 
goes further than this. 
This information shows that Ms Ns bureau score was good. I asked Amex for further 
information because I didnt consider that the bureau score alone was sufficient for it to 
understand her wider borrowing status and its own internal scores were opaque since they 
did not describe what Amex actually saw when it increased her lending. I also asked Amex 
to provide evidence of its understanding of Ms Ns income at the point of the credit limit 
increase. 
Amex couldnt provide any more information. It explained that its internal scores helped it 
understand a consumers chance of default, but it didnt tell me what data contributed to 
these scores. It also told me that given the time that has elapsed, and various data 
migrations which had occurred, that it no longer had the data about Ms Ns income before 
2017, although it implied that it did have this information at the time it made its lending 
decisions. At the point of the credit limit increase in March 2022 Amexs records showed that 
Ms N had an annual income of around £105,000, although its not clear how this information 
was obtained (ie directly from Ms N or from other sources).
I dont know for certain what Ms Ns income was at the time. However, there were several 
indicators in Amexs information that concern me: the size of the lending; the apparent drop 
in Ms Ns income since her previous increase in December 2019 and the decrease in 
Amexs assessment of Ms Ns debt capacity since that previous increase. Given these 
factors I think appropriate checks would have involved asking Ms N about her income and 
essential expenditure. This would have helped Amex understand whether Ms N had 
sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the credit limit increase. This is a slightly 
different finding to that of our adjudicator who thought that the checks completed by Amex 
were sufficient, but it makes no material difference to the outcome of this case. 
 While Amex says it had information about Ms Ns income, it hasnt suggested that it asked 
Ms N about her essential expenditure. I note that Ms Ns bureau score had increased 
significantly in that time, but as I have said, it is not clear what evidence informed that score. 
Although I cant be satisfied that Amex did complete proportionate and appropriate checks, 
this doesnt necessarily mean that I should uphold Ms Ns complaint. I need to consider what 
Amex would have seen if it had completed these checks and whether its decision to lend 
would have been fair in those circumstances. 
 
Ms N intimates that her financial position was more precarious than the data supplied by 
Amex would suggest. To help understand this we asked Ms N to supply evidence to support 
that position, for example, copies of her bank statement and her full credit file. This would 
have helped me understand whether her essential expenditure compared to her income was 
so high that she would have been unable to afford to sustainably repay the credit, and her 
management of other credit commitments. It would have helped me understand what Amex 
would have seen if it had completed the checks I think were proportionate and appropriate 
and, in turn, whether its decision to increase Ms Ns credit limit was fair. Ms N has said that her bank statements are completely irrelevant to my decision as although 
they may show what she spent her money on it would not show a full picture of her credit 
position. She says that a full credit report and discussions with the consumer are vital for 
credit card lending and that the only time bank statements are reviewed in lending is for 
mortgages, loans and when in financial difficulty, none of which she says applied in her 
case. 
However, Ms N is wrong on this matter. It is not because Amex needed to do this at the time 
of the lending decisions, but because in the absence of the information about the checks I 
think Amex ought to have done, sight of Ms Ns bank statements and full credit file would 
have enabled me to get a clearer picture of what Amex ought to have understood if it had 
asked Ms N about her income and essential expenditure. This was explained to Ms N on 
several occasions, including following our investigators view, so I am satisfied Ms N has 
made a fully informed decision not to provide this information, which is her right. 
However, Ms N did supply what she said were her credit scores from January 2021 to 
August 2022, although they did not contain any identifying information to confirm this. They 
show some fluctuation in her scores during January, February and March 2022 (from 999 at 
the beginning of the period to 817 at the end, this latter score being the one that would have 
reflected her financial position at the time the decision was made to increase her credit limit 
in March 2022.)
Ms Ns credit limit was increased for the final time on 3 March 2022. Over the following six 
months Ms Ns credit score reduced significantly to 661 in June 2022  shortly before Amex 
made the decision to change the interest rate it charged Ms N. 
This accords with the information provided to us by Amex which says Ms Ns bureau score 
rapidly dropped in the six months following the [credit limit] increase, as their 
spending/repayment behaviour changed with both their internal and external products from 
10 March 2022, a week after we increased [the credit limit]. They [Ms N] ramped up their 
spending, using almost all of [her] available credit, and reduced [her] repayments to the 
minimum due.
However, the information about Ms Ns raw credit score and the information about what 
happened in the six months following the last increase in lending isnt enough for me to 
understand to a sufficient extent what Amex ought to have found out if it had asked Ms N 
about her financial circumstances at the time of the credit limit increase. Without more 
detailed knowledge of Ms Ns financial circumstances, I cannot fairly conclude that Amex 
acted unfairly when it increased Ms Ns credit limit. 
Following this increase Ms N spent up to her new limit. Between February and April 2022 
(that is, from shortly before to shortly after the credit limit increase) Amex increased the 
interest rate it charged on Ms Ns borrowing. This reflected changes in the Bank of England 
base rate. 
However, in July 2022, Amex again chose to increase the interest rate it charged Ms N. It 
says that this was because it conducted a review of Ms Ns financial information which 
indicated that the risk in lending to Ms N had increased. Ms N challenged this. She told 
Amex that while she had been able to manage the repayments up to that point, the increase 
in the interest rate meant it would be more difficult to do so. Ms N said in her response to the 
investigators view that Amex chose to increase her credit limit and if it had done so 
responsibly and carefully then it shouldnt have needed to increase her interest rate shortly 
afterwards when, she says, her circumstances hadnt changed.I understand that Ms Ns complaint about the increase in interest rate also encompasses her 
argument that if her credit data had been good enough to allow a significant increase in her 
credit limit, then it should still have been good enough if she was spending the full limit 
available to her. That is, the fact Amex increased Ms Ns interest rate may indicate that the 
increase in credit limit was not affordable in the first place. I find some merit in this argument 
if nothing else had changed in Ms Ns financial circumstances. However, it is not clear to me 
that the only change to Ms Ns financial circumstances was the increase in her spending on 
her Amex card, because I havent seen enough about Ms Ns wider financial situation to 
understand whether the only change was the increase in her Amex interest rate.
The increase in interest rate in response to a negative assessment of risk may seem 
counter-intuitive but it is common practice in consumer lending that the cost of borrowing 
increases with risk. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Ms Ns agreement, I am satisfied that Amex 
didnt do anything wrong when it increased Ms Ns interest rate, either in response to the 
Bank of England base rate rise, or in response to the perceived increase in risk. The terms 
were provided in our investigators initial view, and I do not intend to repeat them here as 
there has been no comment made on their validity by either party.
Ms N did not want to agree to the increase in the interest rate charged and complained to 
Amex. Amex told Ms N that she could only opt out of the interest rate increase by cancelling 
her account and continuing to pay the existing balance at the rate it had been prior to the 
proposed increase. Ms N reluctantly did this. 
However, in doing this, Ms N lost access to mobile banking and also to reward benefits she 
had accrued. Ms N argued that this was unfair and that she needed regular access to her 
statements to be able to manage the debt she was repaying effectively. She also said that 
the loss of benefits wasnt properly explained to her when she discussed the closure of her 
account. 
I will deal first with the loss of benefits. I can see that the reward benefits were subject to 
separate terms and conditions. In those terms and conditions, it makes it clear that if a 
customer closes their card account they will no longer earn reward points. The terms state 
the following:
When you might lose [points] you have earned:
What happens if you close your account? If you close your card account you will no longer 
earn [points] and any [points] that have not yet appeared on your American Express [points] 
balance will be forfeited.
I think this makes it clear that Ms N wouldnt lose her existing points  that is, those which 
had already appeared on her statement. But she would lose any which she had accrued as a 
result of spending which hadnt yet appeared on her statement, and she wouldnt earn any 
points which may have been related to other types of account activity. I think it was 
reasonable for Amex not to credit points which had not already appeared on her points 
statement at the point of account closure, and I would not expect Ms N to have been 
specifically informed of this when she did so. The terms and conditions were not owned by 
Amex.
However, Ms N refers specifically to the loss of companion vouchers, which is different to the 
points. These are awarded when a consumer spends a certain amount on the card in any 
one year and are separate to the points referred to in the terms above. Only one companion 
voucher is issued in any year. It wasnt entirely clear to me whether Ms N had lost her points or her reward vouchers, or 
both. And it wasnt clear whether any points she lost were those already earned and 
effectively banked or, instead, points which would have appeared on a future statement. I 
asked Amex to provide further information about these rewards. 
Amex has confirmed that all points were transferred to Ms Ns reward partner account, so 
she has not lost these. In relation to the companion voucher(s), again, these conditions are 
set by the reward partner and Amex has no influence over them. It is correct that Ms N is 
unable to use them as the reward partners terms and conditions explain that:
The Cardmember is responsible for paying any Taxes, Fees and Charges relating to their 
Companion Voucher booking. Taxes, Fees and Charges apply per person. All Taxes, Fees 
and Charges must be paid for using the [Reward Partner] American Express Card.
As Ms N no longer has the card, she cannot meet this condition of using the voucher/s. I do 
not consider Amex has acted unfairly in this regard. 
I realise that Ms Ns complaint about the closure process is multi-faceted; not just that she 
has lost the vouchers and points but also that she was not informed this would be the case 
by Amex when she decided to close the account. However, as the terms are a requirement 
of the reward partners terms and conditions and not Amex, I dont think it is reasonable to 
conclude that Amex should have warned Ms N about this at the point of closing her account. 
So, on balance, I do not think Ms N lost out in relation to the vouchers and/or points because 
of anything Amex did wrong. I understand that Ms N is also pursuing this matter separately 
with the reward partner. 
Ms N also complains that her access to the mobile app was removed; that she received 
conflicting information about paying off the outstanding balance; and that she had to rely on 
paper statements which were sometimes delayed. Latterly, Ms N has shared with this 
service and with Amex that there are particular reasons why she considers she needs to be 
able to have the information at her fingertips and why delays in receiving her statements are 
particularly stressful. 
On these points I again concur with our investigator. It is for Amex to decide how it allows a 
consumer who has closed their account to access information about that account. As long as 
Amex ensures that Ms N is regularly updated in relation to the outstanding balance and how 
her repayments are applied I think this is reasonable. Ms N complains that the statements 
sometimes take a long time to get to her, but I havent seen anything to suggest this is 
Amexs fault, especially given Ms Ns location. Ms N is also able to contact Amex for details 
about her account by phone. While Ms N says this is stressful, I think the month-to-month 
changes in Ms Ns balance are likely to already largely be known to her. She is not able to 
spend further on the account, she knows the interest rate she is paying (which is fixed) and 
how much she is paying each month. While statements and phone calls may not be her 
preferred method of receiving the information I dont think it means Amex has been 
unreasonable in removing access to the app. The relevant information remains available to 
her, and her balance will continue to reduce while she maintains regular payments. I also 
havent seen anything to suggest Ms N has experienced a loss as a result of being unable to 
use the app. 
When Ms N closed her account Ms N says she received conflicting information about 
whether she needed to immediately pay her balance in full. While she had reached an 
agreement to pay in part, a statement she received said that she should pay the balance 
immediately. Amex later reconfirmed that Ms N could pay the balance off gradually and confirmed that this option was part of the terms and conditions of her account. While I can 
see that this might have been alarming at the time, it was easily clarified, and I havent seen 
evidence that it caused Ms N any loss. 
Ms N has also complained that Amex undertook a credit file search in October 2022 without 
her permission. Having reviewed Amexs privacy policy (part of its terms and conditions) I 
agree with our investigator that it set out the circumstances in which it may conduct a credit 
check. These state that Amex may share or receive information about a consumer with 
credit reference agencies and similar institutions to report or inquire about your financial 
circumstance, and to report or collect debts you owe. By originally accepting the terms and 
conditions, Ms N agreed to this information sharing. 
Amex made it clear that while it retained a relationship with Ms N (in relation to the 
outstanding balance owed) it would continue to share and receive credit-related information. 
So, I dont think Amex did anything wrong here. Ms N has indicated she believes this is a 
breach of data protection rules. I am not in a position to make a finding on this, but Ms N 
may wish to take this to the appropriate authority (such as the Information Commissioners 
Office) if she remains dissatisfied. 
In conclusion, taking into account all the evidence I have seen, I do not uphold Ms Ns 
complaint or any parts of her complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ns complaint. It follows that American Express Services Europe Limited 
does not need to do anything further
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman