DRN-3030939
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this here. Whether or not the 
change to the mortgage in 2011 led to a new mortgage, isnt relevant to my view of either the 
sale or the commission issue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Halifaxs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr and Mrs G paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. Mr and Mrs G also requested an ombudsmans decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Halifax no longer has application papers for the sale, but that isnt too surprising given 
the time thats passed since. Mr and Mrs G have said the PPI was just included with their 
mortgage. I give this some weight, but I also bear in mind they set out their recollections 
for us more than 20 years after the sale - so it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt recall 
all the details. With that in mind, Mr and Mrs Gs recollections arent enough on their own 
to make me think Halifax just included the PPI without giving them a choice  and Ive 
nothing else to make me think that. For example, Ive nothing to suggest Halifax wouldnt 
usually have given customers like Mr and Mrs G a choice about the cover and got their 
agreement to the cover before setting it up for them. Also, the records I have suggest the 
PPI was arranged some months after Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage had started, so I think it 
more likely the cover was arranged in a separate interaction with Halifax.
Taking everything into account, and although theres not much to go on, I think it more 
likely Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take the PPI and they chose to 
take it  although it would be understandable if they didnt recall this now.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, shows the 
policy wasnt unsuitable for them. For example Mr G was eligible for the cover and, from 
what hes told us, he was entitled to less than six months full sick pay. Also he was the 
only one in paid employment. So if Mr G were unable to work for an extended time due 
to sickness or unemployment, it seems likely Mr and Mrs G would suffer a loss of income 
 so I think they had a need for the cover. Also nothing about Mr Gs employment or 
occupation wouldve made it difficult for Mr and Mrs G to claim. 
The policy didnt provide cover on Mrs G, so what Mr and Mrs G have said about her not 
being in paid employment doesnt make me think Halifaxs recommendation of the cover 
was unsuitable. Also from what I have Im satisfied its likely the cover was affordable.
Mr G couldnt have claimed for work absences related to pre-existing health issues, but 
what hes told us of his childhood operation doesnt make me think Halifax ought to have 
thought this likely to keep Mr G off work in future. Similarly he hasnt told us of being kept 
off work by the health condition hed had since childhood. Based on what I have, and all 
Mr G has told us, I dont think the exclusion for pre-existing health issues made it wrong 
for Halifax to recommend the cover to Mr G, given what he could still claim for.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and I dont think it likely they would 
have taken it without at least a broad understanding of what it covered, so it looks to me 
like they wanted this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G, as I concluded 
above, and it seems like it wouldve been useful for them if something went wrong in the 
circumstances it covered. Overall, I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its 
likely Mr and Mrs G thought they were buying from the information its likely they were 
given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think they wouldve declined 
the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale, and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for them  and I think 
they wouldve still thought they had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs G would have still taken PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think they would have taken the policy in any event.Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine the relationship between Halifax 
and Mr and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, because 
Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case;
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs G because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr and Mrs G should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs G about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says 
that meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs G paid for their PPI policy. I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and Mrs G with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken if Halifax had done everything it should 
have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
In reaching this view I have taken into account what Mr and Mrs G have said about their 
belief that years of commission and profit share below 50% should be included. In light of all 
Ive already said above, this does not change my view.
So I consider that Halifaxs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. Halifax has told us the 
payment has been made already. As Halifax has already paid Mr and Mrs G compensation 
on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. 
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs G for their courtesy and assistance throughout our consideration 
of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr and Mrs G an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As Bank of Scotland plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not 
consider that Bank of Scotland plc should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman