DRN-2560490
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, trading as More Th>n (More 
Than), unfairly declined a home insurance claim she made and later unfairly declined a 
second claim later the same year under the same policy.
What happened
On 19 February 2020 tiles were blown of Mrs Os roof during a storm. More Than assessed 
the damage and said the tiles fell from the roof because of nail corrosion and rotting to the 
timber battens. More Than declined the claim as they believed the tiles had been out of 
position for some time and this wasnt caused by an insurable event  a storm. More Than 
sent Mrs O a copy of the assessors report. 
Later the same in year, in August, Mrs Os bathroom ceiling collapsed after further rain and 
she made a claim under the Home Emergency Cover section of her policy with More Than. 
When they inspected the damage More Than carried out some basic emergency repairs to 
the roof above the bathroom but said the damage had been caused because the previous 
damage hadnt been repaired. The engineer was only able to carry out emergency repairs 
under the Home Emergency Cover section of the policy and referred the matter for 
consideration under the buildings cover section of the policy. More Than declined the claim 
saying the damage resulted from the previous repairs not being completed.
Mrs O complained to More Than and they provided a final response on 25 August 2020. 
More Than didnt uphold the complaint and explained the initial damage to the roof was 
consistent with nail corrosion and rotting of the wooden batten to which the tiles were fixed, 
rather than a one-off storm event. They also said there was no evidence of water ingress at 
the time of the first claim. More Than said the damage to Mrs Os bathroom ceiling occurred 
because the necessary repairs to the roof werent completed after theyd declined her claim 
from February, and therefore this new damage wasnt covered under the policy she had with 
them.
Mrs O didnt accept the view of More Than and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs O and thought that although there were storm 
conditions on 19 February 2020, the assessors report said the main cause of the damage at 
this time was rotting timber battens that led to the tiles falling from the roof. The investigator 
didnt think More Than acted unfairly when they declined this claim.
In respect of the claim in August 2020, the investigator said that as there werent storm 
conditions at this time, More Than didnt have to accept this claim. He also said that the 
evidence supports the damage to the bathroom ceiling was caused by the ongoing issues 
with the roof, and he didnt think More Than had done anything wrong when they declined 
this claim too.
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigator and asked that an ombudsman decides her 
complaint, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Os complaints is whether the loss of the tiles in February 2020 was down to 
an insurable event  in this case a storm - and whether More Than acted fairly in declining 
the initial claim. This then had an impact on the subsequent claim in August 2020. However, 
while I have a great deal of empathy with the position Mrs O finds herself in, and I 
acknowledge the impact this may be having on her health, Im satisfied that More Than didnt 
act unfairly when they declined the first and second claims. I will now explain why.
February 2020 claim
In respect of the first claim in February 2020, Im satisfied that there were storm conditions 
on the night of the event as I have seen the independent report the investigator obtained. 
For a claim to be considered under the policy Mrs O has with More Than the damage being 
claimed for must also be as a result of an insurable event, which in this case is the storm. 
So, it was reasonable for More Than to send an assessor to examine the property to 
establish if the likely cause of the damage was the storm.
Ive seen the assessors report, dated 19 March 2020, a copy of which was sent to Mrs O on 
20 March 2020. This report has several photographs of the damage to the roof and 
photographs of Mrs Os bathroom that was directly below where the tiles had fallen from. 
The assessor reported there was no evidence of storm damage and that the tiles slipping 
from the roof was evidence of nail corrosion and of rotting battens. The assessor concluded 
this indicated the tiles had been out of position for some time, and the storm wasnt the main 
cause of the damage to the roof. As there was no insurable event, More Than declined Mrs 
Os claim because her policy didnt cover the damage.
The terms and conditions of the policy Mrs O held with More Than explain that any loss, 
damage, liability, cost or expense caused by wet rot are excluded, and More Than 
considered this was the likely cause of the damage, rather than a single event such as a 
storm.
I acknowledge Mrs Os comment that More Than told her on the telephone they couldnt be 
certain the initial damage was down to wear and tear. Ive also noted Mrs Os concern that 
our investigator wasnt convinced it was nail corrosion that directly caused the damage. 
However, Im satisfied it was reasonable for More Than to rely on the professional opinion of 
the assessor in relation to these issues. The assessor considered the damage wasnt 
caused by a single storm event, but rather over a period of time. So, when I considered what 
the assessor said about the damage, and I reviewed the pictures, Im satisfied that More 
Than didnt act unfairly when it declined this claim. Whether it was nail corrosion that caused 
the tiles to slip or whether the tiles slipped off the roof because the battens were rotten, the 
report concluded that a storm was unlikely to have caused the damage, and therefore the 
policy didnt provide cover for this event.
Mrs Os policy also provided accidental damage cover if she incurred a loss from sudden, 
unexpected and visible damage which has not been caused on purpose. I considered 
whether the policy would provide cover under this benefit. The general exclusion for wet rot 
applies to the whole policy. Therefore, unfortunately I consider it was reasonable for More 
Than to conclude the damage to the tiles wasnt sudden and unexpected, so Ive decided it 
was reasonable that accidental damage cover wouldnt apply to this claim either. 
August 2020 claimTurning to the claim in August 2020, which Mrs O made under the Home Emergency Cover 
section of the policy, More Than arranged for an engineer to attend the property and 
temporary repairs were carried out. Although theses repairs were carried out under the 
Home Emergency Cover section of the policy, More Than declined a further buildings 
insurance claim. This was because the engineer who inspected the damage thought the 
damage to the bathroom ceiling wasnt caused by a storm, or a sudden event, but was in 
fact the result of the damage in February 2020 not being repaired. The engineer reported 
that it was likely the ceiling needed pulling down and replacing, and that the bathroom was 
unsafe to use. 
On 20 August 2020, Mrs O spoke with More Than about making a buildings insurance claim 
as water was coming through the roof, but More Than confirmed they would decline the 
claim as the new damage was caused as a result of the original damage from earlier in the 
year not being repaired.
Ive seen the weather data for the period in August 2020 when Mrs O made her second 
claim. Although I can see that there was rainfall around this time, I cant say that the data 
shows there was a storm. So, although More Than did complete some temporary repairs to 
the roof in line with the Home Emergency Cover section of the policy, Im satisfied there was 
no insurable event  a storm - at this time, and therefore Mrs Os policy wouldnt provide 
cover for the damage. 
I consider it was reasonable for More Than to put in place temporary repairs in August 2020 
and this is what I would have expected them to do under the Home Emergency Cover 
provided within Mrs Os policy. However, this section of the policy has a maximum claim 
value of £200 and says that More Than will carry out temporary repairs which if not dealt 
with immediately will make the home unsafe. So, I think it was reasonable for the engineer to 
refer the matter back to More Than for a possible building insurance claim. 
In respect of this second building insurance claim, the evidence doesnt support the damage 
in August was caused by a single event  a storm. The pictures the engineer provided to 
More Than show the damage is to the same area of the roof from where the tiles slipped 
earlier in the year, and show the bathroom is directly underneath this area. More Than 
considered the comments and pictures from the engineer and decided the damage to the 
bathroom ceiling was caused because the repairs to the tiles that were the subject of the first 
claim werent completed. I dont consider that this was an unreasonable decision for More 
Than to make under the circumstances, so I dont consider More Than did anything wrong 
when they declined the second claim in August 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman