DRN-3459794
The complaint
Mr F has complained that, due to not being advised by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
that he couldnt pay into a UK based pension plan if he wasnt a UK resident for more than 
five years, hes lost out on the opportunity to begin paying into a plan in the country of his 
residence. 
What happened
In September 2014, Mr F moved overseas, and remains outside of the UK to date. When Mr 
F moved, he was making regular contributions to his personal pension policy (PPP) with 
Aviva, and Mr F amended his contact details to his overseas address in 2015.
Following a review of its records, Aviva contacted Mr F in June 2021, enquiring as to his 
residency status and whether hed lived in the UK for the previous five years and had UK 
relevant earnings.
Mr F responded, confirming that hed moved overseas in September 2014 but that hed been 
told in a phone call with Aviva beforehand that he could continue to make contributions 
indefinitely. 
Aviva confirmed that, as Mr F hadnt been a UK resident for five years, he could no longer 
contribute to his PPP. It apologised for not having contacted him earlier, as the contributions 
should have ceased as of April 2020. It further explained that, although technically pension 
contributions could continue, as they couldnt attract tax relief, Aviva wouldnt be able to 
accept them.
It did, however, say that all contributions made up to April 2020 could remain invested, but 
that those received since then would need to be refunded. Aviva treated Mr Fs concerns as 
a complaint and, in its final response letter of August 2021, confirmed that it would be 
refunding the contributions, totalling £480, along with tax relief received to HMRC, and also a 
payment to Mr F of £42.71 which reflected the fund growth those contributions had 
experienced.
It further said that, if Mr F was concerned about additional loss of investment opportunity in 
the period from April 2020, it would consider any further evidence of this that Mr F provided.
Dissatisfied with the response, however, Mr F told Aviva hed be referring the matter to this 
service. He said that it had misunderstood his complaint, and the point was that, had he 
been correctly informed of the position in 2014, he could have stopped the contributions to 
Aviva and begun contributing to a pension in his country of residence. He said that he could 
have paid seven years premiums in the seven years he had wasted paying them to Aviva.
Once it was referred to us, one of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think 
it should be upheld. He said the following in summary:
Aviva wasnt responsible for Mr F not having established a pension policy in his new 
country of residence. It had conceded that it should have contacted him earlier to 
inform him of the position with his contributions, but it had taken responsibility for this 
and refunded the overpaid contributions, along with the associated fund growth. 
Aviva had therefore covered any financial loss it had caused.
Aviva correctly told Mr F in 2014 that he could continue to make payments to the 
PPP, and whilst it may have been beneficial for it to have also informed him that he 
would only be able to do so for a further five years, it wasnt obliged to. It was a 
pensions administrator, rather than a financial adviser. It was up to the individual 
customer to check the implications of moving from the UK for five years or more.
Up to April 2020, there was no case to answer in terms of any financial loss, as Mr 
Fs contributions continued to be invested and receive tax relief as they previously 
had. Mr F was also free to establish pension arrangements in his new country of 
residence if he so wished.
In terms of any loss of growth for the period in which the contributions were being 
refunded, Aviva had also made a payment in respect of this. And Mr F could transfer 
his Aviva pension fund to a pension plan in his country of residence if he wished.
When Mr F took financial advice in his new country of residence, that adviser should 
have checked the status of his Aviva plan at the time. It was Mr Fs responsibility to 
ensure that the plan remained suitable for his circumstances and needs, and the call 
to Aviva in 2014 couldnt have been expected to cover all of that information.
Mr F disagreed, however, saying that he didnt establish a pension plan in his new country of 
residence as Aviva had informed him he could continue contributing to its PPP. He said that 
hed been a long standing customer and had never doubted that they would give him the 
wrong advice  but they had.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as the investigator, albeit for 
slightly different reasons in some respects.
Ive noted what the investigator has said about Aviva not being in a position to give Mr F 
financial advice, but I do think that, when he informed it of his move overseas, it would have 
been quite straightforward to inform him of the position with UK pensions once a customer 
had moved overseas.
And whilst Mr F may have had individual responsibilities as the policyholder to ensure that 
the plan remained appropriate for him, Aviva has itself conceded that it incorrectly recorded 
Mr Fs move to Australia, which led to it failing to make him aware that he could no longer 
make contributions to his PPP. And so I think its generally accepted that there have been 
failings in its record keeping and communications.
But I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome. To explain, Mr Fs position is 
that hes been denied the opportunity to establish pension provision in his new country of 
residence, and I agree that there would have seemed no need for him to do so as he was 
continuing to contribute to the Aviva plan. But this is also why theres no financial loss. Mr F 
may not have been contributing to a plan overseas, but he was contributing to the Aviva plan, and as set out by the investigator, those contributions continue to be invested and have 
enjoyed the same tax relief as if Mr F had been resident in the UK.
Mr F was seemingly content to continue paying into the Aviva plan for as long as he 
assumed it was legitimate to do so, and so for the five years he was making those 
contributions, the position is neutral. Mr F thought he could contribute to the Aviva plan  
and was doing so.
The position which needs additional scrutiny is after Mr F was no longer eligible to contribute 
to the Aviva plan  so after April 2020. But I think Aviva has acted appropriately here. It 
refunded the contributions to Mr F, along with the fund growth those contributions would 
have experienced up to the point of payment. So again, I cant see that theres a position of 
loss to Mr F in that respect. 
Aviva did also say it would be willing to review the payment in respect of fund growth if Mr F 
provided evidence of additional lost investment opportunity. But Im unaware as to whether 
Mr F has supplied this. If he wishes to do so, Im assuming that Aviva will be willing, as it set 
out in its final response letter, to consider this further. 
Overall, therefore, whilst I understand Mr Fs annoyance at finding out, after the fact, that he 
was unable to contribute further to his Aviva plan, I think the steps which Aviva has taken to 
rectify the matter have been appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman