DRN-3695098
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy for damage to her roof. 
What happened
Mrs M took out an annual buildings and contents insurance policy with Lloyds, which 
commenced on 1 March 2021. When this policy ended, Mrs M incepted a policy with another 
insurer that Ill refer to as S. 
On 4 March 2022 Mrs M said she became aware that some tiles and a hip iron had 
dislodged from her roof. She put this down to a storm on 18 February 2022 and instructed a 
roofing company, which Ill call R, to attend her property and effect a temporary repair.
Mrs M said R undertook a temporary repair on 5 March 2020. She said she didnt incur a 
charge for this work and R didnt leave her with any substantive documentation showing the 
extent of work it had carried out.
On around 11 March 2022 Mrs M submitted a claim to S for damage to her roof and asked it 
to cover the cost of a permanent repair. But S informed Mrs M that it thought the damage 
had occurred prior to the inception of her policy and directed her to make her claim via 
Lloyds.
Mrs M obtained a quote for permanent repair work to her roof from R, dated 4 May 2022. 
And on 6 May 2022 she contacted Lloyds and made a claim under her buildings insurance 
policy for roof damage. 
Lloyds appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as B in this decision, to inspect the roof. It 
attended Mrs Ms property on 10 May and took photographs of the roof during its inspection. 
Following its visit, B produced a report stating that the mortar to the bottom two hip tiles on 
the main roof had been gradually deteriorating and come loose. It further stated that the hip 
iron had deteriorated and come away. It felt the storm had highlighted these issues but 
hadnt been the cause of the roof damage Mrs M had observed.
Lloyds relied on Bs report and repudiated Mrs Ms claim. It said there was no evidence 
showing the damage had been caused by a one-off storm event. It further stated that 
damage caused by wear and tear of the mortar wasnt covered under the terms of her policy. 
Mrs M didnt accept the reasons Lloyds declined to cover her claim and complained. But 
Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint. It didnt think it had made an error in declining to settle 
her claim. So, it didnt change its decision about this claim. 
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to her complaint, Mrs M referred her complaint to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened, but they didnt recommend 
upholding Mrs Ms complaint. They werent persuaded the damage Mrs M had reported to 
Lloyds had been consistent with a one-off identifiable storm event. Instead they thought it 
had, most likely, been caused by wear and tear. So, they didnt think Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in declining to cover Mrs Ms claim. But she disagreed and asked for her complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs M and Lloyds, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Mrs M raised concerns that she experienced a delay in how her claim was 
progressed by Lloyds. It appears that there was around two months from Mrs M becoming 
aware of the damage to her roof to the date that she approached Lloyds. But I note that Mrs 
M initially approached S to assist her with her claim. It seems there was a delay in how her 
claim was progressed by S, for which I note Mrs M has already received compensation. As 
this decision relates to how Lloyds dealt with Mrs Ms claim I cant comment on S 
involvement in this claim as that falls outside the scope of this complaint. However, looking 
at how Lloyds progressed this claim once it was aware, Im satisfied it acted promptly in 
appointing B to assist it in managing this claim. It then made timely decisions and explained 
in clear terms why it was declining the claim. So, I cant say it caused any delay in dealing 
with Mrs Ms claim.
My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mrs M unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything they and 
Lloyds have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs M will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Theres no dispute that there was damage to Mrs Ms roof However, theres a disagreement 
between Mrs M, Lloyds and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage and the 
correct outcome of this claim. 
Mrs M would like Lloyds to cover the cost of repairing the damage to her roof; which she 
believes was caused by adverse weather. Her policy with Lloyds provides cover for damage 
caused by a range of perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include 
storm, for example. In order for a claim to be successful, a policy holder must show that the 
damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mrs Ms complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. 
All three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs Ms policy defines the word storm as A period of violent weather defined as:
strong winds with gusts of at least 55mph; and/or
hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes damage to hard surfaces or 
breaks glass.
Lloyds explains in the terms and conditions that it will take into consideration the condition of 
a policyholders home. It also states that a storm can highlight damage rather than cause it 
and damage that happens gradually through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is 
not covered. 
Having considered evidence of the weather recorded in Mrs Ms locality at around the time 
the damage occurred, I can see wind speeds of between 77 and 58 mph are recorded from 
18 to 21 February. This meets Lloyds definition of a storm. Im therefore persuaded I can 
answer question one affirmatively.
But even if there was a storm, for me to uphold a claim for storm damage Id have to be 
persuaded that the damage caused was consistent with what our service would normally 
consider storm damage. Id also be to be satisfied that the storm was the main/dominant 
cause of the damage. 
In considering whether the reported damage is consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes Ive considered what Mrs M said about the damage her property sustained. Ive also 
carefully reviewed Bs report and the photographs it took during its site visit. 
In this case the hip iron came away from the roof and two hip tiles came loose due to 
deterioration in the mortar. While Im satisfied this type of damage is something that could be 
expected following a storm our service wouldnt consider mortar deterioration to be 
consistent with a single storm event.
Ill turn now to the issue of whether the storm was the main cause of damage, which is the 
main area of dispute between Mrs M and Lloyds.
B believes storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage Mrs Ms property 
sustained. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, B thought the damage was 
caused by a breakdown and deterioration in the condition of the mortar, which happened 
over a period of time. B also said it observed debris and moss growth in the guttering. And it 
said it noted the same deterioration to the mortar on the hips on neighbouring properties, 
which it thought supported its view that the issues with Mrs Ms property were due to age 
related wear and tear. Bs report comprehensively explains why it doesnt believe Mrs M has 
a valid storm claim.
Ive seen the quotation Mrs M provided from R. This states that remedial work involved the 
removal of loose hip tiles at the eaves, cleaning off existing tiles, supplying and fixing a new 
hip iron to the hip rafter and re-bedding the hip tile back into position with a sand and cement 
mortar. The quotation doesnt provide a rationale as to why R believes the damage was 
caused by a storm. And I havent seen anything within that quotation that contradicts Bs 
opinion about the cause of damage here.
I understand Mrs M disagrees with what B has stated about the cause of damage. She feels 
that the storm winds in February 2022 caused the damage she observed and appears to 
believe its unfair for Lloyds to rely on a report from B in declining her claim  particularly 
when shed provided a quotation from R in support of her claim. But our service thinks its 
right for an insurer to instruct companies with expertise to inspect a customers property to assist it in determining the cause of damage. Here Lloyds appointed B to do that. And I dont 
think it acted unfairly in accepting and relying on its opinion in the circumstances of this claim
While Mrs M may disagree, Im satisfied Lloyds has shown our service reliable evidence to 
demonstrate that the damage her property sustained, most likely, occurred due to wear and 
tear and a lack of maintenance of the mortar. And the photographs B took during its site visit 
support this. They demonstrate the weathered condition of the roof covering and the 
accumulation of moss on the tiles, in the gaps between the tiles and in the guttering. The 
photographs persuade me that deterioration of the mortar has occurred over a period of 
time. Theres no evidence that the damage was caused by a storm as Mrs M suggested may 
have happened when she discussed her claim with Lloyds.  
Mortar deterioration isnt something that happens gradually. And it doesnt happen due to a 
one-off storm event. Correctly applied and maintained mortar should be weather resistant 
and unaffected by storm related weather  although it will deteriorate over time when 
exposed to extremes of weather. In the overall circumstances of Mrs Ms claim, Im 
persuaded that had the mortar not broken down its unlikely the tiles and hip iron would have 
fallen. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mrs M 
experienced in February 2022 exposed the underlying mortar deterioration and caused it to 
worsen afterwards. Im satisfied that Bs report shows the damage to the mortar was most 
likely caused by age related wear and tear instead of a single one-off storm, which is what is 
covered by Mrs Ms policy.
As Ive mentioned Mrs Ms policy covers damage caused by certain events. Wear and tear, 
or damage that happens gradually, arent one of those events. Theyre specifically excluded, 
which is in common with most home insurance policies. This is because insurance is 
intended to cover the unforeseen, and something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt 
unforeseen. This is made clear on page 49 of Mrs Ms policy booklet. 
I appreciate that Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision. Shes already repaired her 
roof and has incurred significant cost and stress in doing so. But, for the reasons outlined, 
Im satisfied Lloyds has shown our service cogent evidence that proves the damage to Mrs 
Ms property was caused by wear and tear. As that isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of her insurance policy, I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds decision about this 
claim was unreasonable. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it to pay this 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman