The complaint
Mr M's complaint concerns a series of errors made by Santander UK Plc when administering 
an ISA transfer.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M instigated a transfer of his existing stocks and shares ISA to a new cash 
ISA with Santander. It soon became apparent that Santander had requested the transfer 
from the wrong provider. There followed a series of phone calls and letters with different 
members of staff as Mr M attempted to get the matter sorted out. 
The transfer eventually completed in mid-May 2019. Santander responded to Mr M's 
complaint about the matter by acknowledging that it had incorrectly requested the transfer 
and it offered him £80 for the trouble caused. But Mr M didn't accept this and after further 
correspondence Santander eventually agreed to make good the loss incurred by Mr M as a 
result of the delayed transfer (using his suggested dates for when the transfer should have 
been completed) to calculate a loss of £350. It also offered to increase the compensation 
payment by £50, to £120.  
Mr M also didn't accept this new offer as he felt the compensation should be significantly 
higher. He suggested an amount of just under £1,800, based on what he saw as 
Santander's policy of making a payment of £100 for an error as a means of closing the 
matter off - he felt it had made numerous errors, including not responding to his letters. On 
referring the complaint to this service Mr M also said that he thought Santander should be 
directed to take steps to address the procedural issues he'd encountered.
Our investigator explained that our role was limited to resolving individual disputes and 
didn't extend to directing businesses to make changes to commercial processes. She noted 
that despite the errors the transfer had still taken place in around the required time limit, so 
she couldn't agree with the level of compensation Mr M had suggested. However, 
the investigator did feel that Santander should increase the payment for the trouble 
caused to £250. 
Mr M didn't accept this either. He highlighted that the transfer had only completed because 
of his efforts to move things along. He explained further why he felt Santander should pay 
compensation based on £100 per error - reiterating that he felt that figure stemmed from a 
policy of trying to get rid of complainants. He also felt that a higher level of compensation 
would bring the failings he'd experienced to the attention of senior management at 
Santander. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review. 
DRN-1316707What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Santander has already acknowledged that it delayed Mr M's ISA transfer, causing him both a 
financial loss and the inconvenience of having to chase up the matter. So, my role is solely 
to decide what represents a fair and reasonable response to those issues. 
I can understand Mr M's frustration with Santander and appreciate that it does appear that 
he drove the resolution of the matter, rather than Santander taking the lead. Clearly many of 
his letters and phone calls were either not responded to at all, or in a way that left Mr M 
dissatisfied. 
But in the circumstances, I don't think it would be reasonable for me to direct compensation 
at the level suggested by Mr M. I understand the point he's making and also why he wants 
the issues he encountered to be noted and acted upon at a high level. But I must consider 
the matter in line with our usual process where if an error, or errors, have occurred then 
compensation should serve to put the complainant back in the position they'd otherwise 
have been (which the £350 loss calculation does) with an additional payment for any trouble 
and upset caused. 
In this respect, I think the £250 suggested by the investigator is a fair figure given that the 
transfer completed relatively quickly (albeit in part driven by Mr M) and Santander 
acknowledged the problem promptly and tried to help put the matter right (albeit sometimes 
creating further problems and failing to respond to every contact made by Mr M).
As an aside, I don't think it's the case that Santander is applying any particular policy to 
award default compensation to 'get rid' of complaints. Which, in part, is why I don't think that 
Mr M's contention that £100 should be awarded for each 'error' - each unanswered letter etc 
- should be applied here.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr M a total of £600 to cover his loss and the trouble and upset 
caused by the matter. I understand a payment of £80 has already been made, leaving a 
balance of £520 outstanding. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Santander 
UK Plc to pay compensation to Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman