DRN-3599040
The complaint
Mr B and BW as SIPP trustees complain that Quilter Investment Platform Limited dealt 
unfairly with a request to withdraw funds from Mr Bs self-invested pension plan (SIPP)
What happened
BW as SIPP trustees submitted a request to transfer funds from Mr Bs SIPP to the BWs 
client investment account. Mr B complained that Quilter sold assets proportionately across 
the funds within the SIPP when it should have transferred cash that was available within the 
SIPP. Quilter didnt uphold the complaint as it said the instruction didnt provide specific 
details of which assets were to be sold, and it relied on its terms and conditions to 
proportionately disinvest assets across the investment  its default option.
Mr B and BW as SIPP trustees brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that in the absence 
of a specific request for the transfer to be made from the cash within the SIPP it was fair and 
reasonable that Quilter relied on its terms and conditions and proportionately disinvested 
assets within the SIPP to provide the transfer amount. 
Mr B asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B and BW as SIPP trustees will be disappointed, but Im satisfied that 
Quilter dealt with the disinvestment request in line with its terms and conditions and I wont 
be upholding the complaint. I will now explain why.
The request BW sent to Quilter consisted of two documents. The first of these documents 
was an email which stated, Please find attached a disinvestment request for processing. 
The signed authority that accompanied the request said, Please accept this signed 
instruction as authority to transfer £95,000.00 from the account above to the account 
detailed below So, although it may have been the intention of Mr B and BW as SIPP 
trustees that the sum requested should be taken from the cash holding in the SIPP, the 
instruction and the covering letter didnt specify this. Indeed, the covering email referred to 
the request as a disinvestment request.
Im satisfied that the request Quilter received was signed by BW as SIPP trustees and that 
Quilter had no reason to consider it incomplete or that it was the intention for the funds to be 
taken only from the cash held within the SIPP. Ive noted that BW as SIPP trustees could 
have used a specific form to request the funds be transferred from the cash held within the 
SIPP, but I think its reasonable that when Quilter received the disinvestment instruction and 
authority that it proceeded to sell assets proportionately. The terms and conditions of the 
SIPP specifically deal with a situation like this: 
14.3 We will raise the money to pay your single withdrawal in the following ways, as 
specified in your instruction:
a) By using cash held in your account;
b) By selling units in all of your funds, cash and ETIs proportionally based on the 
value of your account at the time of sale
c) By selling units from specific funds and ETIs (including model portfolios and 
managed portfolios).
14.4 If you do not specify your preference, we will sell units in accordance with 14.3(b). 
I understand that Mr B and BW as SIPP trustees believe that Quilter should have transferred 
cash held in the SIPP, but this isnt what was specified in the instruction and covering email 
sent to Quilter. And I dont think its fair and reasonable for Quilter to contact SIPP holders to 
check what the intention of an instruction is. Quilter make it reasonably clear in its terms and 
conditions how it would deal with an instruction that doesnt specify how the transfer amount 
Mr B says Quilter told him a withdrawal form is provided on-line to assist its customers and 
that it didnt uphold the complaint because this form wasnt used. But the crux of this 
complaint is that the instructions to Quilter didnt specify how the withdrawal should be 
funded regardless of whether the instructions were on a form or email. Mr B is frustrated that 
Quilter didnt simply transfer the cash held in the SIPP or make contact to check the 
instructions it had received, but I cant say that the action taken by Quilter when it received 
the instructions it did was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs and BW as SIPP trustees complaint about Quilter 
Investment Platform Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and BW as 
SIPP trustee to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman