DRN-3963896
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 24 April 2020, Mr Ss credit card was opened by MBNA Limited with a credit limit of 
£9,800. This credit limit was never increased. 
In 2023, Mr S complained to MBNA Limited to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that MBNA Limited ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before opening the credit card for 
him. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
MBNA Limited will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ss complaint is that MBNA Limited made credit available that was unaffordable. MBNA 
Limited has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr S provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ss name 
to assess Mr Ss level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, MBNA Limited decided 
to agree to the credit limit of £9,800. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the 
time of the sale.
The credit checks showed that Mr S had other unsecured borrowings. But I have noted that 
Mr Ss credit file was very clean at the time of the credit application. When I say this, I mean 
that Mr Ss management of his existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or 
any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending 
decision was made, Mr S was affording his existing credit. And so, MBNA Limited were not 
put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the 
information that MBNA Limited had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them 
to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr Ss expenditure. 
I can see that after the lending decision was made, Mr Ss credit file does show adverse 
markings. But I have to look at the information that was available to MBNA Limited at the 
time it made its lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient 
evidence that the other information that MBNA Limited acquired or had presented to it at the 
time of the lending decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not 
checking Mr Ss expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit MBNA Limited provided to Mr S was unreasonable. 
Mr S is disappointed as he has put time and energy into his complaint. And he has seen 
case studies on our website where we upheld complaints and Mr S feels these cases were 
similar to his situation. But each complaint is determined by the individual circumstances of 
each particular complaint. 
Having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient evidence 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman