DRN-3722706
The complaint
Mr M complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) provided an 
unreasonably poor level of customer service under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr M had his gas switched off at the mains due to concerns with the levels of carbon 
monoxide in the home and he was worried about the safety of his family.
Mr M contacted British Gas to have his boiler tested and he was keen this was done quickly 
as he didnt want his family to be without hot water and heating. Mr M understood that British 
Gas had arranged for an appointment to visit his property on the same day the claim was 
made.
British Gas explained its call handler had mistakenly set the expectation with Mr M that its 
engineer would attend the same day, but it had set-up the appointment for the following day. 
British Gas apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused and offered to pay £80 as 
a gesture of goodwill. It also fitted Mr Ms a free carbon monoxide detector.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought a further £70 compensation 
(£150 in total) was more appropriate for the increased worry that was experienced and the 
inconvenience of chasing. British Gas disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by reviewing the terms and conditions to understand what responsibilities British 
Gas had in attending to the emergency. The terms and conditions set out that British Gas 
are required to carry out its work in reasonable timeframes, which it defines as we'll carry 
out any repairs or visits you're entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond 
our control makes that impossible - in which case we'll let you know as soon as possible and 
give you another time when we can visit.
British Gas said when Mr M contacted us on 3 March 2022 to report a problem with his 
heating and hot water, the advisor he spoke with offered to arrange a visit the following day, 
but said if we could attend that day if we would. As the discussion drew to a close, the 
advisor told Mr M that we would send an engineer that day. Regrettably, this was incorrect, 
as when the visit was booked, it was arranged for the following day, 4 March 2022.
I can see that the appointment happened the day after the claim was made, so I think its fair 
to say the appointment happened within reasonable timescales. However, its clear from 
what British Gas said that it wrongly set the expectation that someone would be attending 
that day. Based on what he was informed. I think it was reasonable that Mr M was expecting 
someone to attend and test his boiler on 3 March, so I think Mr M has been let down.
British Gas recognised it had let Mr M down and apologised. It offered him £80 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience, so I have considered whether I think this 
is fair.
British Gas has explained for an error of this kind it would normally compensate its customer 
around £30 to £50, however, due to Mr Ms specific circumstances it increased the offer to 
£80. Im pleased that British Gas acknowledged that Mr Ms vulnerable circumstances 
placed his family in a difficult position due to its error.
Mr Ms testimony includes details of calls he said he made to British Gas. He said he:  
"contacted British Gas customer services by phone and spoke to [first named call agent] at 
12pm who said to me I would have an Engineer attend my property by 6pm as an 
emergency appointment on the day (03/03/22) latest 8pm"; and
"again contacted British Gas customer services to follow up the non-attendance and spoke 
to [second named call agent] who informed me that given that I had [vulnerable 
circumstances] she had managed to get me another emergency appointment as she had 
considered us as vulnerable [and she] could not find any emergency appointment booked by 
[first named call agent] as had [been] stated. [Second named call agent] also said that after 
speaking to the person in charge of emergency appointments she had secured an engineer 
who would definitely attend by 10 pm on the 03/03/22. Unfortunately, again no engineer 
attended.
Im persuaded these calls happened as described by Mr M. British Gas hasnt provided any 
evidence to suggest the events played out differently. This indicates to me that British Gas 
did fail to attend on the 3 March on two occurrences when they said they would. One of 
these were after a further escalation from Mr M due his familys vulnerable circumstances. 
Mr M was asked about the impact this had on him and his family.
Mr M explained that his family who were deemed vulnerable by British Gas were left 
sleeping in cold conditions overnight and were anxious about the carbon monoxide levels in 
the house. He said a family member was ill the following morning due to what had 
happened. He said if he had known things wouldve been delayed he couldve made 
alternative arrangements.
Given the impact on Mr M and his family wouldve been greater, I dont think British Gas has 
compensated Mr M fairly. Our investigator recommended an additional £70 compensation. 
After hearing British Gas rejected this, Mr M thought the compensation offered should be 
higher.
However, I think £150 compensation (£70 additional) for the distress and inconvenience is 
reasonable in these circumstances for the reasons set out by Mr M. British Gas said in its 
terms and conditions that it would inform Mr M if there was a problem and I dont think it has 
done this. I appreciate it fitted a carbon monoxide detector, which I think is a good gesture. 
However, I think if Mr M was aware of the delays that were likely he couldve made his family 
more comfortable in the circumstances. I think this award is fair and brings a reasonable 
closure to this complaint. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr M:£70 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (plus the original £80 offered if it 
hasnt yet been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman