DRN-3632943
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Simplyhealth Access didnt accept his full dental insurance claim. 
Any reference to Simplyhealth includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr W had dental insurance which was provided by his employer. 
In January 2022, Mr W had dental treatment in a country which I will call T. He had routine 
crowns, root canal treatments, tooth coloured fillings, tooth extractions, hygiene treatment 
and x-rays. 
He submitted a claim to Simplyhealth for the treatment hed received in T. The claim was 
reviewed, and further information from the treating dentist in T was requested. As a result of 
specific exclusions for cosmetic treatment carried out on the policy, Mr Ws claim wasnt fully 
settled. Simplyhealth settled the claim for the amount of £1,411.52 for the part of Mr Ws 
treatment that was considered clinically necessary. Simpyhealth also paid Mr W £50 for the 
delays caused in handling his claim. 
Unhappy with Simplyhealths response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She said the claim was reviewed by Simplyhealth and by a 
qualified dentist and based on the information provided, she didnt think partial settlement of 
the claim was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of what happened. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Its important to clarify that its not our role to make a medical assessment of the claim but to 
consider whether the insurer has treated Mr W fairly and reasonably and in line with whats 
expected in the policy terms and conditions. 
Having carefully done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why:
Page 8-9, Section 1. Schedule of benefits in the policy document states what is 
covered: clinically necessary dental treatment up to the amounts shown in your 
table of cover.
Page 11, Section 2 sets out the General exclusions under the policy which confirms 
theres a specific exclusion for any treatment that is assessed by our dentist as not 
clinically necessary.
Ive carefully considered all the information provided by Mr W and Simplyhealth and I 
can see the treatment was carried out in T. A report of the treatment was provided 
by Mr Ws treating dentist in T. This consisted of what treatment was provided, 
including before and after pictures of the treatment that was carried out. The treating 
dentist said there was an issue with two of Mr Ws teeth and extraction of these were 
necessary. A breakdown of each of the treatments was provided. 
All of this information was provided to Simplyhealths dentist for review. 
Simplyhealths dentist reviewed this and said there was some clinically necessary 
treatment carried out on Mr Ws teeth. The dentist also said that based on the 
information, there was treatment carried out which was to aesthetically improve 
Mr Ws teeth, and for this, there was no cover under the policy terms and conditions 
and so this part of the treatment was excluded. So, payment was made by 
Simplyhealth for treatment that was clinically necessary.
Ive carefully considered all of the information. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but Im 
not persuaded that Simplyhealth has declined part of his claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. As I stated above, my role is not to make a medical assessment of 
the treatment Mr W received but to decide whether he has been treated fairly in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions. The claim has been assessed in 
line with whats expected and based on the evidence provided. As part of the 
assessment all of the information was reviewed by a qualified dentist and they 
confirmed not all of the treatment was clinically necessary. This is what we would 
expect to happen, and this is in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr W feels strongly about the how the claim has been assessed and that 
its not been fully settled. But Im not persuaded that Simplyhealth acted out of line 
with whats expected or that hes been treated unfairly. 
I note that Simplyhealth has paid Mr W £50 for the delays in handling his claim. I 
think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Overall, I appreciate Mr W feels strongly about the outcome of his claim and he will be 
disappointed. But Im satisfied that Simplyhealth didnt decline part of his claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. It follows that I dont require Simplyhealth to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Simplyhealth Access.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman