DRN-4291286
The complaint
Mrs G complains UK Insurance trading as Privilege (UKI) unfairly declined her claim on her
home insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the complaint but
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Following some bad weather in February 2022 Mrs G noticed a damp patch on the ceiling of
one of her bedrooms. After she removed some wallpaper to investigate she found the
exterior walls were damp.
Mrs G got a local tradesman to look at the issue so she could get an emergency repair
completed and so she could specify the damage to her insurer UKI. The tradesman found
several roof tiles had been ripped off the roof and there was damage to the felt underneath
them. They completed some basic temporary repairs. Mrs G then obtained two quotes for
repairs for the exterior damage and two for the interior damage and redecoration.
Mrs G contacted UKI to make a claim on her home insurance policy on 1 April 2022.
UKIs approved supplier attended and inspected the roof at Mrs Gs property. It did not
inspect the internal damage. It said as temporary repairs had already been completed it was
unable to review the damaged tiles. It inspected the rest of the roof area and said the main
cause of the damage was age related wear and tear and not storm damage.
UKI said it reviewed the weather records for a period of two months leading up to the date of
loss, to see if there was any evidence of storm weather. It said the records didnt show
rainfall was at storm conditions. It said it also reviewed the wind speeds for the same period
and again this failed to meet a wind speed that would mean storm conditions.
Mrs Gs claim was declined for both the external and internal damage.
Mrs G complained to UKI, and it accepted it had caused delays to the claim and paid her
£200 for the inconvenience caused as a result of this. It still declined to settle her claim for
the damage caused.
As Mrs G was not happy with UKI, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said based on
the evidence available that the general wear and tear exclusion was applied fairly to both
external damage and to the accidental damage caused internally. They said the £200 paid
for the delays was fair and in line with what they wouldve recommended.
As Mrs G is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a
Final decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided  and why
When we consider complaints about claims as a result of storm damage we approach them
in a similar manner. There are three conditions that need to be met before we can say that a
business should deal with a claim for storm damage. Those conditions are:
1) Was there a storm?
I have considered all the information presented and I am reassured that after looking at all
the evidence obtained by our investigator that there was windy weather that would be
considered as a storm in the month prior to Mrs G noticing damage to the inside of her
home.
I have also seen evidence within UKIs own claim notes that it too accepted there had been
wind recorded at storm conditions in February 2022. However in its response letter to Mrs G
it failed to rely upon this information and said wind speeds recorded had failed to meet its
business requirement for storm conditions.
2) Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
I think the damage reported to the roof of slipped and broken roof tiles and the subsequent
leak through the ceiling could be typical of that caused by a storm. As winds had been
recorded at storm level I am not in agreement with UKIs decsion that both the internal and
external damage was not related to a storm was correct.
3) Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I looked at the report provided by UKIs approved supplier and it was very brief. It said as
Mrs G had had the slipped roof tiles put back in place by the time it attended to look at the
damage it could only report on damage to the roof valley and found that mortar was
damaged. It said this was not storm damage but was the result of age-related wear and tear.
Mrs G said her roof was in a good state of repair and I saw evidence of maintenance being
undertaken to the roof in September 2020 which incuded replacing cracked tiles and pointing
of ridges and valleys. This evidence was submitted to UKI but it said it was unable to change
its decision based on evidence already presented.
UKI said it only looked at the roof externally. It did not fully inspect or report on the condition
of the roof underneath the tiles or the damage reported due to the rain getting in. UKI
accepted it should have inspected the property from inside.
I looked at the reports completed by the two companies engaged by Mrs G to provide an
assessment and quotation for repairs to the damage to the roof. They reported damaged
tiles on the roof and to the roof felt underneath. Both of these companies looked at the roof
from the inside and pictures and a video were provided of internal and external damage.
One company made the temporary emergency repairs to make the roof water tight for a
short period of time.
I think it was reasonable Mrs G had emergency repairs completed to stop water getting in
through the hole made by the missing tiles. The temporary work included only replacement
of a couple of ridge tiles to make the roof watertight until full repairs were undertaken. I saw
she paid for this herself. I do not think these repairs stopped the rest of the reported damage
being inspected.
UKI admitted its inspectors report was not full or comprehensive and agree the failure to
inspect the interior damage was unacceptable. I think If UKI had completed a thorough
inspection to Mrs Gs property it would have seen the damage to the roof felt underneath the
tiles. And in addition it could have reported on the water damage to the bedroom.I think its reasonable to accept the evidence provided confirms that some of the damage to
the roof was caused by the storm conditions.
I therefore think the three conditions that say a business should deal with a claim for storm
damage were met.
Mrs G has provided evidence that she has had work completed to repair the roof at her own
cost. This work does not include that of the internal water damage.
After considering all the evidence provided it confirms there were storm conditions at the
time of the damage and therefore UKI were incorrect to decline Mrs Gs claim for this
reason. And there is evidence to support that at least some of the damage to the roof was
caused by the storm conditions rather than entirely by age related wear and tear.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is that UKI partially settle Mrs Gs claim
for storm damage to the roof. And reconsider her claim for the internal damage.
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and intend to require UKI to settle 50% of
the amount (£3,750) she has paid for the repairs to her roof. And to reconsider the internal
water damage to her property under the accidental damage part of her policy. UKI should
also pay Mrs G a further £500 in compensation for the delays and distress caused due to it
failing to acknowledge there were storm conditions prior to the damage being caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs G responded to say she was happy with the provisional decision. 
UKI responded to say it accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs G and UKI accepted my provisional decision, I maintain my provisional decision 
and I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I require UKI to settle 50% of the amount (£3,750) she has 
paid for the repairs to her roof. And to reconsider the internal water damage to her property 
under the accidental damage part of her policy. UKI should also pay Mrs G a further £500 in 
compensation for the delays and distress caused due to it failing to acknowledge there were 
storm conditions prior to the damage being caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance trading as Privilege to settle 50% of the amount (£3,750) Mrs G has 
paid for the repairs to her roof. And to reconsider the internal water damage to her property 
under the accidental damage part of her policy. This should be done within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs G accepts my final decision. 
UK Insurance trading as Privilege should also pay Mrs G a further £500 in compensation for 
the delays and distress caused due to it failing to acknowledge there were storm conditions 
prior to the damage being caused. It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman