DRN-1888736
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont credit his account with £600 of money 
that is missing as part of a past cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr G went into a branch on 5 February 2020 and said he wanted to pay in £15,000 of cash. 
When this was counted and checked Barclays told him there was only £14,400. Mr G said 
he had withdrawn £15,200 of cash in the past and kept all but £200 of this in his safe at 
home to allow him to access the funds if he needed them. This is what he had brought back 
to pay in.
Barclays identified that Mr G had withdrawn £15,200 in cash on 9 June 2017. It said that this 
would likely have been ordered from the cash centre. It explained its processes for checking 
cash in the branch when received. It said that it found no evidence of any mistake or till 
discrepancies when Mr G withdrew the cash on 9 June 2017. And two members of staff had 
counted the money paid back in. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she thought 
it likely that the cash had been checked before Mr G originally withdrew it. Given the time 
that had now passed there was limited information about this but there were no till errors 
showing at that time. When Mr G wanted to pay the money in, the member of staff that first 
counted it said that some of the money was in the original seals but not all of it. The cash 
was checked by a member of staff and both agreed the amount.
Mr G did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he is not a thief. He 
insisted that the bags were sealed when he returned the money and someone has stolen it 
but that definitely wasnt him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs position and I wont be able to say exactly what happened here. Im 
thinking about what is most likely on a balance of probabilities. But I need to say to him that 
from my point of view looking at this independently the passage of time between when he 
took out and then took back this money makes it difficult to establish that a mistake was 
made
The member of staff that first counted the money on 5 February 2020 says in a written 
statement that Mr G had provided the original grey cash bag with the date and till stamp. But 
that inside the bag some of the cash was loose but some of the cash was in a yellow cash 
bag that was also not sealed. Some of the cash was in note bands but none had a bank, 
branch or till stamp on.Its possible that Mr G was given the wrong amount of money when he withdrew £15,200 in 
2017. Barclays has provided the information it has about that date and there are no till 
discrepancies that could account for this. Its explained how the money would have been 
checked both at the cash centre (on the basis it was likely ordered) and then in branch. It 
was open to Mr G to check the money when he received it at the time but I can see why he 
trusted that Barclays had given him what he asked for. The amount of £200 at least must 
have been taken out of any sealed bag.
Mr G says he had stored this at home in a safe and has cameras that would have detected 
anyone taking it. I understand that but I cant safely make any findings about what happened 
to that money over the period of more that two and a half years. There is a dispute over 
whether the other sealed bags had been opened or not. And so Barclays assumption based 
on the testimony of its cashier must be that at some time the bag was accessed.
Im satisfied that Barclays went through its normal process to count the money Mr G brought 
back. And this was double checked. Im not persuaded a mistake was made at that time.
I dont doubt that Mr G has brought this complaint in good faith and genuinely believed 
£15,000 must have been in the cash bag when he took this into Barclays. I am only looking 
at what is most likely as I say based on the evidence before me. And Im afraid that having 
balanced all the factors I dont have sufficient evidence to find that Barclays has made a 
mistake as Mr G says and should credit him with £600. I can understand how disappointed 
he will be by my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman