DRN-3130540
The complaint
Mrs K, as a sole trader  S, represented by Mr K, complains that their merchant services 
terminal hire agreement with Merchant Rentals Limited (Merchant Rentals) renewed for a 
further 12 months following the end of an initial 24 month minimum agreement period. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both S and Merchant Rentals. I wont 
repeat in detail what is already known to both parties. 
Mrs K signed a merchant services agreement for a card terminal in September 2019. The 
agreement was for 24 months. At the end of the 24 months, the agreement then renewed for 
a further 12 months. 
Mr K is unhappy as they emailed Merchant Rentals around the time the initial agreement 
was ending to say they wanted to cancel. Merchant Rentals say that S wouldve needed to 
have contacted them three months prior to the end date in order to prevent the agreement 
renewing. Mr K says this had never been brought to their attention.
Mr K remained dissatisfied so he referred the complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As 
Mr K disagreed, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Was the relevant information made sufficiently clear at the time of the sale?
When considering this complaint Ive looked at whether the information about the ending of 
or renewal of the agreement was highlighted at the time of sale  as this is important 
information given the possible implications for the merchant.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement signed by Mrs K (on behalf of S) on 14 September 2018. 
In the section headed KEY FINANCIAL INFORMATION its stated:
The Minimum Period commences after our acceptance of this Agreement.. subject 
only to our right to terminate earlier under Clause 1.4 overleaf and will continue for 
the period shown in the Financial Details section above.To terminate the hire on or 
after the last day of the Minimum Period you must give us not less than three months 
notice of termination before the end of the Minimum Period or otherwise the hiring 
will continue for an Extension Period(s) and can only be terminated by you giving us 
not less than three months notice before the end of any Extension Period which will 
be effective in accordance with Clause 1.3 overleaf
Directly beneath this, in a section headed KEY INFORMATION is the following text (in bold 
as it appeared on the agreement):
At the end of the Minimum Period this Agreement will automatically run on, 
save that; 
(i) you may end this Agreement on the date of expiry of the Minimum 
Period provided you give to us at least three months prior notice in 
writing; 
(ii) if you do not give us notice as required by (i) above the hiring under this 
Agreement will continue for successive terms of twelve months (each 
an Extension Period) unless or until either you or we give to the other 
at least three months prior notice in writing to take effect at the end of 
any Extension Period.(see Clause 1.3 overleaf).
Mrs K signed the agreement, agreeing to its terms. Although Mr K says this key information 
wasnt made clear, I dont agree. I find that the terms were sufficiently prominent on the 
agreement. For example, the above term is in a section clearly headed key information and 
in bold text. Its also the main text that was in a bold font in that section. 
This term was also set out again in bold font under the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. Its also worth noting that on page 4 of the agreement (the terms and 
conditions), this term was the only one where the entire term was in a bold font. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the important information about the notice period required to stop 
the agreement renewing for a further 12 months after the minimum period was made 
sufficiently prominent, clear and not misleading when Mrs K signed the agreement. Im also 
satisfied it was made clear that if no notice was given by the merchant to end the agreement 
(a minimum of three months before the end date) then it would renew.
Although Mr K has inferred that Mrs K wasnt involved in the signing of the agreement, the 
copy of the agreement he has provided us with also shows her signature. 
The agreement renewal
In order to prevent the agreement renewing for a further 12 months after 17 September 
2020, a representative of S wouldve needed to contact Merchant Rentals by - at the latest, 
17 June 2020. But S didnt contact Merchant Rentals until around September 2020. I dont 
find that Merchant Rentals have acted unfairly or unreasonably here or afterwards when 
there was a balance outstanding. 
Its unfortunate that the business operations of S were affected by COVID and associated 
lockdowns, but I cant fairly say that Merchant Rentals have acted unfairly, unreasonably or 
not in line with the terms when renewing the agreement. Its my understanding that this 
agreement has now ended and I dont find that Merchant Rentals need to do anything 
further. 
I know that this wont be the answer that Mr K wanted, but my decision brings to an end what 
we - as an alternative informal dispute resolution service, can do in trying to resolve this 
dispute between Mr K (on behalf of S) and Merchant Rentals.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K on behalf of 
S to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman