DRN-3438663
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited gave him incorrect information about his 
pension plans.
What happened
Mr S held three pension plans with Aviva, Ill refer to these as plans ending 8L, 8T and 9J. In 
2020, Mr S decided to retire as his health was worsening. His financial adviser contacted 
Aviva to see what 8L, 8T and 9J were worth.
Aviva provided a series of valuations for these, and Mr S says he used them to plan his 
retirement income. But when Mr S accepted these valuations in June 2021, Aviva said it had 
calculated 8T and 9J incorrectly and they were in fact worth significantly less.
Mr S decided not to accept the valuations for 8T and 9J. Through his financial adviser, Mr S 
complained to Aviva about being given incorrect valuations, saying this had caused him a 
great deal of worry at an already difficult time for him. 
In its final complaint response, Aviva said it gave Mr S the correct valuations for 8L, 8T and 
9J several times from July 2020 onwards. But it accepted it gave him incorrectly high 
valuations for 8T and 9J in March 2021, and again in April 2021, because it used an 
incorrect last premium paid date in its calculations. Aviva said it provided the correct 
valuations in a June 2021 telephone call, followed by letters in July 2021. Aviva said it could 
only pay the correct value for 8T and 9J, but offered Mr S £250 compensation to apologise 
for the inconvenience it caused. 
Mr S rejected Avivas offer and came to our Service. He told us about his worsening health, 
and provided a letter which he thought showed Aviva had also given incorrect valuation 
information in December 2020. Mr S said Aviva hadnt credibly explained its error or 
communicated with him directly about it. And he thought £19,192.32 was fairer 
compensation here, as he said he now had £1,128.96 less per year for approximately 17 
years.
Our Investigator said Aviva made an error by giving Mr S incorrect figures, but it would be 
unfair to ask Aviva to honour them as Mr S would then be receiving something he was never 
entitled to. But he said Aviva had caused Mr S a loss of expectation, distress and 
inconvenience, and should pay him a total of £350 compensation for this. 
Mr S still thought £19,192.32 was fairer compensation, and highlighted this matter meant he 
was not receiving a pension income from 8T and 9J.
Aviva maintained £250 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ss health difficulties, and I dont doubt 
they cause him a great deal of worry. But while I dont wish to cause Mr S any further 
distress, Im not asking Aviva to put things right in the way Mr S would like. Ill explain why.
Aviva accepts it made an error by giving Mr S incorrect valuations for plans 8T and 9J. Mr S 
says Aviva hasnt credibly explained its error or communicated with him directly about it. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, it seems Aviva was communicating about this matter with 
Mr Ss financial adviser, and I dont think thats unreasonable since the adviser was 
representing Mr S here. And I can see in Avivas July 2021 letters, Aviva explained that the 
previous incorrectly high valuations for 8T and 9J were caused by it using an incorrect date 
in its calculations. 
I understand Mr S may feel thats not a credible explanation. But when a business makes an 
error, for whatever reason, our approach is to consider the impact of that error on the 
consumer  in other words, the financial loss, distress and inconvenience caused by that 
error. 
Im satisfied Aviva hasnt caused Mr S a financial loss here. Theres doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that Aviva has corrected its error and confirmed the correct valuations for 8T and 9J 
in writing in July 2021. And these are significantly lower than the previous, incorrectly high, 
valuations. But the higher valuations were only higher because Aviva had based its 
calculations on incorrect information. So it was never the case that Mr S was entitled to 
these higher incorrect valuations. Therefore, hes not suffered a financial loss in not 
benefitting from them.  
But for a significant period of time, Mr S thought 8T and 9J had a higher value than they 
really did, and I accept what he says about using this information in his retirement income 
planning. I think Mr S would then have been disappointed, frustrated and worried to discover 
some months later that Avivas valuations for 8T and 9J were in fact incorrectly high. I also 
think Aviva caused Mr S some inconvenience in having to get to the bottom of this matter 
with Aviva through his financial adviser. Given this, Im satisfied £350 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the loss of expectation, distress and inconvenience Avivas error caused 
Mr S.
I acknowledge Mr S thinks £19,192.32 is fairer compensation. However, my understanding is 
that this figure is based on what Mr S sees his financial loss to be. And for the reasons Ive 
set out, Avivas error has not caused Mr S a financial loss here. 
I also acknowledge Mr S says this matter means he isnt receiving a pension income from 8T 
and 9J. Aviva confirmed the correct valuations for 8T and 9J in writing in July 2021, along 
with an explanation for why it previously gave him incorrectly high valuations. But Mr S 
chose not to accept the July 2021 valuations. I can understand why, but ultimately that was 
Mr Ss choice and not something I think Aviva is responsible for.Putting things right
Aviva should put things right by paying Mr S a total of £350 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
should pay Mr S a total of £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman