DRN-3049358
The complaint
Mr H complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly increased the 
monthly premium of his mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr H had a PPI taken alongside his mortgage with Great Lakes since 2018. When he bought 
the policy, the monthly premium was £28.16 and would provide a benefit of £1,100 per 
month in the event of a successful claim. 
On 18 December 2020 Great Lakes wrote to Mr H in advance of its policy annual review 
which would take place on 19 January 2021. It advised that with effect from January 2021 
the premium of the policy would increase to £68.50 per month. It also offered two other 
cover options if Mr H preferred.
Mr H thought this rise was significant and unjustified and he raised a complaint with Great 
Lakes, as well as giving further detail about his dissatisfaction. Great Lakes issued its 
response on 23 December 2020 confirming the increase and the options available to Mr H. It 
advised it would refer to the underwriter of the policy who would also be responding to him 
about the increase. 
The underwriter wrote to Mr H on 14 January 2021 explaining the reasons for the increase. It 
advised that Mr H could seek alternative cover elsewhere if the policy no longer suited his 
needs.
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
adjudicator explained it wasnt for this service to advise businesses on how to calculate their 
insurance cover premiums. 
Mr H didnt agree. He also said that he hadnt given him 30 days notice of the change in 
monthly premium as Great Lakes was obliged to. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to understand that we are not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk. 
When calculating what premium to charge to individual policyholders, Great Lakes  or the 
underwriter  will take numerous different factors into account. And different insurers assess 
risk differently. What is a high risk to one may not be to another. Individual insurers may also 
use different data when assessing the risk posed. But thats not unusual or unfair.  
I wont quote the reasons for the increase in this final decision, but the underwriter did 
explain them to Mr H in its letter of 14 January 2021. 
And with regard to the increase of the premiums, I have checked the terms of the policy 
which says 
5. Annual Review
We review Your Policy annually and any changes We wish to make will take effect from the 
anniversary of Your Policy Start Date each year. Following the review. We can make changes 
to the Policy cover and/or terms and conditions of insurance to reflect changes in the cost of 
providing this cover in the future.
Premiums may go up or down,or remain unchanged as a result of this review. The Policy 
cover and terms may also change as a result of this review.
There is no limit on the size or type of these changes.
We will notify You in writing at least 30 days before the anniversary date of Your Policy Start 
Date each year.
For each review We will take a fair and objective view on the likely future cost of providing this 
cover by considering:
1) Our experience and expectations of the cost of providing this product and/or similar 
insurance products; and
2) Widely available economic information such as rates for inflation, interest and 
unemployment; and
3) Changes In law, regulation and taxation.
The only exception to this would be in the event of a change in:
1) Law, regulation, taxation; and/or
2) recommendation of an Ombudsman
which We need to implement prior to the review.
Any review will not be directly affected by whether You have made a claim or not.
I think this made clear that Great Lakes would be carrying out an annual review and changes 
to the policy could take place. So, I dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong in 
making those changes as they were within the terms of the policy. 
In his email of complaint sent to Great Lakes on 22 December 2020 Mr H said he didnt 
receive the annual review letter  dated 18 December 2020  until 21 December 2020. Mr H 
has said this didnt give him the obligatory 30-day notice period before 19 January 2021. 
Generally, I dont find it unreasonable that the notification date is the date the letter is sent  
Great Lakes couldnt control when it was received. But the point is that the Mr H had a 
reasonable amount of time to consider the newly proposed premiums and whether to accept 
them or not. It was a monthly renewable policy, so he couldve cancelled if he didnt like it 
and sought cover elsewhere  he wasnt committed. If Mr H did not like any newly proposed 
terms, he could have chosen not to accept them and sought cover elsewhere  if he still 
wanted this type of cover. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed, but overall, I do not believe Great Lakes has acted unfairly 
in increasing the premiums on the PPI policy because the terms of that policy said that it 
could. And Mr H had a reasonable amount of time to consider whether to accept. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint that Great Lakes Insurance SE has acted unfairly in 
increasing the monthly premiums on his PPI policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman