DRN-3701699
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (and 
referred to here as HSBC) has administered their mortgage account. In particular, they are 
unhappy about the following:
when Mr and Mrs H used the flexible offset facility, HSBC failed to consider whether or 
not this was affordable;
since the mortgage was originally taken out in 2004, the balance has not decreased;
HSBC failed to provide them with requested documentation, including a copy of their 
original mortgage documentation;
they arent happy with the documents provided by HSBC when they made a Data 
Subject Access Request (DSAR)
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs H want to be compensated for their financial losses as a 
result of using the drawdown facility on the mortgage when this wasnt affordable for them, 
and for the mortgage balance to be reduced accordingly. In addition, Mr and Mrs H want 
HSBC to offer them a realistic repayment mortgage to enable them to clear the balance over 
a reasonable term, and for there to be liaison with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to 
ensure that lessons are learned.
Mr and Mrs H have been assisted in bringing their complaint by a relative, but for simplicity I 
will refer to Mr and Mrs H throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat all the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
I note that part of the complaint is that HSBC hasnt retained copies of historic mortgage 
documents. However, I am glad to note that Mr and Mrs H have, in fact, kept their original 
documents, and have provided us with copies, for which I thank them.
From these I note that in April 2004 Mr and Mrs H took out a re-mortgage with HSBC. This 
was on a non-advised basis. They borrowed £86,000. Mr and Mrs H also took out a loan 
facility of £55,000 on the same date.  
Both loan agreements state that the loan is interest-only and is repayable when the first 
borrower reaches their 65th birthday. In April 2004 Mr H was aged 37 (reaching 38 the 
following month) and Mrs H was aged 28. The mortgage term is therefore due to end on 
Mr Hs 65th birthday, in May 2031.
The mortgage terms and conditions for both agreements states:
10. Capital Repayments
a) You must repay your Loan Facility on or before the Repayment Date. You must 
make your own arrangements to ensure you are in a position to do this and if we 
ask you to, provide evidence to our reasonable satisfaction that you will be in a 
position to do so.
b) In addition to your obligation to pay interest in full each month, you may if you 
wish make capital repayments at any time.
c) Any capital repayments will be applied to reduce the capital outstanding under 
your Loan Facility 
11. Drawings
a) You, or if your Loan Facility is in joint names, either of you, may redraw the 
amount of any capital repaid provided that you do not exceed your Credit Limit 
and you have not breached any of the terms of this Agreement.
b) Where the balance of your Loan Facility is less than your Credit Limit you, or if 
your Loan Facility is in joint names, either of you, may make further drawings up 
to the amount of your Credit Limit, provided you have not breached any of the 
terms of this Agreement.
c) You may make drawings electronically, by telephoning us or writing to us.
I will not set out all the details of the various transactions over the years. However, the 
balance on both accounts has fluctuated as Mr and Mrs H have repaid, then re-drawn, 
capital from the accounts.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs H complained that the mortgage had been mis-sold, that the bank had 
failed to provide historic documentation saying the documentation was no longer available, it 
was irresponsible of HSBC to allow them to use the drawdown facility without checking 
whether this was affordable, and that the account balance hasnt decreased since 2004. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
On 4 August 2022 I issued a decision in which I explained that we did not have jurisdiction to 
consider a complaint that the mortgage had been mis-sold. The complaint about the use of 
the drawdown facility without HSBC considering affordability, the fact that the account 
balance hadnt decreased and about HSBC not providing documentation were complaints 
we could look at.
An investigator looked at those matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
was satisfied that there was no requirement for HSBC to consider affordability for additional 
drawdowns. He found that, because the drawdown facility had been used, this explained 
why the account balance had not decreased since 2004. 
The investigator also noted that HSBC had provided all the documentation it held. He 
clarified that if Mr and Mrs  were dissatisfied with the information disclosed in the response 
to their DSAR, they could refer this to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings and made the following points:
HSBC has made assertions about the circumstances when the mortgages were taken 
out, but hasnt provided any documents in support;
a complaint was made to the ICO, but the ICO declined to consider it as it had been 
raised with the ICO too late for that office to consider it;
they reiterate all the points theyve previously made about irresponsible lending;by 2008 the £55,000 loan balance had been repaid, and the £86,000 mortgage was 
almost paid off, after Mr and Mrs H had sold their business but they chose to reborrow at 
frequent intervals, as their income had significantly reduced but they did not want to 
change their lifestyle;
they became complacent and constantly re-borrowed without thought for the future.
they attribute fault for the position they are now in to HSBCs failure to act responsibly.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to more than 1,300 pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. The submissions from Mr and Mrs Hs representative are prolix 
and there are a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. Therefore I have, 
by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  It is up to me to determine what the material 
issues in the complaint are, and to direct my decision towards those issues. This approach is 
consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the 
issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have 
little or no impact on the broader outcome.
I must also clarify that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr and Mrs H would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to HSBC or act as their representative or 
go-between on this case.
Failure to provide documents: This mortgage was taken out pre-regulation, which came 
into effect on 31 October 2004. Over the years most lenders with pre-regulation mortgages 
have changed and updated their systems, and historic documents and records held on 
outdated systems are no longer available. There is nothing sinister in this.
In any event, I note that, even though HSBC wasnt able to provide the mortgage 
documentation, Mr and Mrs H had retained their copies of the agreements, showing the 
terms on which they borrowed the money. I am grateful to Mr and Mrs H for providing this. 
Given that Mr and Mrs H have retained their original mortgage documents, they have 
suffered no detriment as a result of HSBC no longer retaining copies. 
As I explained in my earlier jurisdiction decision, I cant consider their complaint about mis-
sale of the mortgage. Therefore historic documents about what Mr and Mrs H may or may not have told HSBC about their circumstances in 2004 which led to the mortgage being 
granted are not relevant to this complaint.
Response to DSAR: I note that in August 2021 HSBC responded to a DSAR made by 
Mr and Mrs H, who were dissatisfied with the documents HSBC disclosed. Mr and Mrs H 
have told us that when they complained to the ICO, the ICO declined to investigate because 
theyd left it too late to complain. As a result, Mr and Mrs H now want our service to look at 
HSBCs response to the DSAR. I dont think its appropriate for this service to do so.  
First of all, a complaint about a failure to provide all the documents requested under a DSAR 
is more appropriate to be considered by the ICO, not our service, and so we would generally 
expect consumers to go to the ICO about these issues. Our rules allow us to decline to 
consider a complaint if its more suitable for another organisation to look at. Mr and Mrs H 
did, indeed, contact the ICO about their dissatisfaction with the response to the DSAR.
However, where a complaint to another body has been either rejected or excluded (for 
example, if its been brought too late), our rules also allow us to decline to revisit that issue. 
Because the ICO has excluded Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the DSAR (as theyd 
brought it too late), I am satisfied its not appropriate for the Financial Ombudsman Service 
to consider the same issue in this complaint. Therefore I will make no further comment on 
this.
Irresponsible lending:  The crux of this complaint  and the main issue about which 
Mr and Mrs H are concerned  is that they say HSBC was irresponsible in allowing them to 
drawdown repaid capital from their mortgage account without carrying out affordability 
assessments each time.
The account terms and conditions do not require HSBC to conduct an affordability 
assessment each time Mr and Mrs H make a drawdown. There isnt any increase in 
borrowing from the initial advance, which would have been assessed as affordable in 2004. 
In addition, the drawdown process is largely automated, like most banking in the modern 
era, where transactions are carried out electronically. Provided Mr and Mrs H stayed within 
the account limits (which they did), thered be no need for any intervention by HSBC. 
In this regard, I must make it clear that HSBCs responsibility extends to administering the 
account in line with the terms and conditions and Mr and Mrs Hs instructions. This is what 
HSBC has done. But the bank isnt responsible for managing Mr and Mrs Hs finances for 
them, nor is HSBC expected to conduct manual monitoring of the account or question their 
spending. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H readily admit that responsibility for their spending lies with them, 
and that since 2008 they have tried to maintain a lifestyle which is unsustainable on their 
earned income.  As a result, they have used the drawdown facility, as well as credit cards, to 
support their lifestyle. I cant hold HSBC responsible for this. 
Mr and Mrs H have confirmed that each time they re-borrowed using the drawdown facility, a 
warning would pop up on screen about the implications of re-borrowing and the necessity to 
repay this, and they were aware of this. However, they still went ahead each time.
Overall, I cant see that HSBC has done anything wrong. The account operated within its 
agreed facility, and Mr and Mrs H were aware of the need to repay what theyd borrowed at 
the end of the term.
The complaint was first raised with HSBC on 10 July 2021. Mr and Mrs H were at that time 
adamant that HSBC acted irresponsibly and should never have allowed them to borrow additional funds without first assessing affordability. This is the position they have continued 
to argue throughout, including in their response to the investigators findings which we 
received on 29 August 2022. 
However, since receiving HSBCs final response letter dated 12 July 2021  and after the 
complaint was raised with our service on 31 August 2021  Mr and Mrs H have drawn down 
a further £10,000 from the account  £500 on 30 December 2021 and an additional £9,500 
on 1 April 2022. They have not asked HSBC to assess affordability of their borrowing in 
either case. In the circumstances, given that they have continued to use the drawdown 
facility even after they raised their complaint, Mr and Mrs Hs argument that HSBC should 
have assessed the affordability of all drawdowns simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
Overall, Im not persuaded HSBC has done anything wrong in allowing the borrow-back 
facility to operate as intended, within its terms and conditions.
Account balance not decreased since 2004:  Because of the use of the drawdown facility, 
where Mr and Mrs H have borrowed back funds theyd previously repaid, the account 
balance has not deceased as it would have done if Mr and Mrs H had made overpayments 
of capital and not withdrawn those overpayments. Ive looked at the account statements and 
these show credits and debits from the accounts. Mr and Mrs H have received statements 
for these and so it cannot have come as a surprise to them that they have spent the amount 
they had overpaid on the mortgage and loan. 
Conclusion:  I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were hoping for, but after careful 
consideration of everything they and HSBC have told us, Im unable to find HSBC has done 
anything wrong here. I understand that it is worrying for Mr and Mrs H that they will need to 
think about paying back the mortgage by 2031. There is still time for them to put in place a 
repayment strategy. However, I am also told Mr and Mrs H are in the process of selling their 
house with a view to buying a property mortgage-free.
If Mr and Mrs H are in financial difficulties, it might help them to take some advice from a 
qualified professional, such as an independent financial adviser, or from an advisory service 
such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. They can find details of financial advisers on the 
FCA website, and we can provide contact details for debt advisory services, if Mr and Mrs H 
would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman