DRN-3453563
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt reimbursed funds she lost 
to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Mrs W tried to send her first, large international payment to the scam, Halifax 
blocked this payment and her account. It spoke to Mrs W on the phone and advised it 
had severe concerns this was a scam and didnt process the payment. It advised 
Mrs W shed need to go into branch with ID to unblock her account.
Mrs W didnt do this and called Halifax a few days later, as her account was still 
blocked. Again it spoke to Mrs W about what she was doing and the transaction 
shed tried to make. It asked her a number of questions about what was going on. 
She wasnt honest about the situation she was in and said shed borrowed the money 
for home improvements, but then said she wanted to invest this to make more money 
for the improvements.
Halifax didnt agree to unblock the account when Mrs W spoke to it the second time 
and instead again directed her into branch to unblock her account.
The branch staff identified Mrs W may be the victim of a scam and so tried to deter 
her making the payment. They also called the Police and the Police spoke to her 
about what was going on. Mrs W didnt agree, said the situation was genuine and 
that she wanted the account blocks removed. She also said shed take responsibility 
for the payment. The Police couldnt confirm this was a scam, so Halifax followed 
Mrs Ws instructions and removed the blocks.
Considering the above, Im satisfied Halifax took the necessary action to intervene 
and try and protect Mrs W from this scam. She was however unfortunately under the 
spell of the scammer and so at this time couldnt be stopped. I dont think Halifax 
needed to do more in this case; or that it asking Mrs W different questions wouldve 
changed what happened here. Afterall the Police came and their questions didnt 
confirm this was scam at the time.
I accept Mrs W has been through a very difficult time and lost a large sum, but Im 
satisfied Halifax met its obligations in relation to the payments she sent. So I cant 
fairly ask it to reimburse these now.
Mrs W has raised concerns around the loan taken out in her name with Halifax to 
fund the first, large payment she tried to send. As I discussed with her, this decision 
is only in relation to the scam transactions themselves and a separate complaint has 
been raised for this point.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman