DRN-1534951
 
The complaint
Miss B and Mr G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2006, Miss B and Mr G took out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage. The policy was sold 
during a meeting in a branch and provided cover for their mortgage repayments on a 50:50 
basis if one of them was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss B and Mr G disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the PPI proposal form which Miss B and Mr G signed at the 
time. This was separate from their mortgage application. At a later date, they signed a 
separate direct debit mandate to collect the monthly premiums of £150 on their PPI policy. 
These premiums would have been shown separately on their monthly statements. And Ive 
seen an Advice Interview form which their mortgage advisor completed during the meeting, 
which shows that the PPI policy was recommended to Miss B and Mr G. The advisor has 
ticked a box to confirm that this recommendation was accepted. The mortgage agreement 
also shows the monthly cost of the PPI policy and makes it clear that there is no obligation to 
take this cover.
So, from the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that PPI was discussed with 
Miss B and Mr G at the time and that they actively decided to take it, knowing that this was 
optional. But this sale took place a long time ago and I can understand why they may not be 
able to recall this now.
As Lloyds recommended the PPI policy to Miss B and Mr G, it needed to ensure that it was 
suitable for them. I cant now know all the steps which Lloyds took to do this. But from what I 
know of their circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
 
Miss B and Mr G appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any 
of its main exclusions and limitations. 
Miss B and Mr G say they had generous sick pay and redundancy entitlements from 
their employers. And they also say that they had a substantial amount of savings at 
the time which could have been used to make their monthly mortgage repayments if 
one of them was unable to work. So they dont think they needed the policy. But 
Miss B and Mr G were taking out a large mortgage with significant monthly 
repayments. It was a big financial commitment  where their home was, potentially, 
at risk if the monthly repayments couldnt be made. And although they say they had a 
large amount of savings, it looks like these may have been already earmarked for 
some specific planned expenditure. In any case, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any other means they may have had available to them at the time. So I 
think that Miss B and Mr G would still have valued the extra security that the policy 
gave them if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss B and Mr G. And 
although they say they had no idea they were paying so much for the policy, I can 
see that the monthly cost was shown on the mortgage agreement they signed and, 
as Ive already mentioned, would have shown as a separate entry on their financial 
statements. So I think they are likely to have known about the cost at the time, even if 
they later forgot about this. I also dont think Lloyds were under an obligation to 
regularly review their cover after the sale to ensure it remained suitable. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, Miss B and Mr G could have cancelled the policy 
themselves if they thought it no longer met their needs.
 
Lloyds also needed to ensure that Miss B and Mr G were given enough information about 
the PPI policy for them to decide if they wanted to take it. I think its possible that Lloyds 
could have given them better information that it did. But for much the same reasons that I 
dont think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think that better information would have 
changed their minds about taking it out. I think theyd still have thought it gave them useful 
protection at an affordable monthly cost.
So I dont think that Miss B and Mr G have lost out by anything that Lloyds may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman