DRN-2219923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1993 in connection with a 
joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr J if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to 
Mr and Mrs J, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs J information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs J are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs J say that when they first raised their complaint with Nationwide it said it didnt 
have a record of them paying for PPI. Mr J supplied further details of the premiums paid and 
Nationwide then managed to locate some records of the policy. Mr and Mrs J consider 
Nationwides initial response to their complaint means the policy must have been mis-sold, 
because Nationwide cant prove that it wasnt. 
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs J have said. But Im mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that the mortgage was repaid in 2007. Its not unusual for it to take 
some time for a business to locate PPI records, particularly for accounts that have been 
closed for some time. Im not persuaded that Nationwide was deliberately trying to mislead 
Mr and Mrs J when they first raised their complaint, or that the initial lack of records meant 
the policy was mis-sold.
The amount of time thats passed means the information Nationwide has supplied is limited. 
Thats not surprising, and its similar to other cases Ive seen.
But Nationwide has said that when Mr and Mrs Js mortgage was sold the PPI was offered 
free for twelve months. And its internal records show that premiums started to be paid 
around a year after Mr and Mrs Js mortgage started. So on balance I think its likely that Mr 
and Mrs J decided to take advantage of the free cover for twelve months.
I also think its likely that Nationwide wouldve given Mr and Mrs J the option to continue the 
cover once the free period ended. Mr and Mrs Js mortgage had already started by then, so I 
think they wouldve known that buying the PPI wasnt a condition of getting the loan they 
wanted.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs J have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Nationwide didnt make them aware the PPI was optional.
Mr J satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out, and his 
circumstances dont suggest he wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions or people who were self-employed. As 
Mr J couldve benefited from the full extent of the cover, I dont think he and Mrs J needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
Mr J says he was entitled to sick pay if he couldnt work because of sickness or accident, so 
he doesnt consider the policy was of any use to him.
But as Ive already said, I dont think Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs J on whether or not to 
take the PPI. So it wouldnt have had to check whether their existing arrangements meant 
the policy was suitable for them. 
But even if Nationwide had advised Mr and Mrs J to buy the policy, I dont think it was 
unsuitable for Mr J. I say this because the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Js 
employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place wouldve 
meant Mr J could use his employer benefits to pay for other expenses. So think he and Mrs 
J wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements. 
I cant be sure that the policys cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs J when they continued 
the cover at the end of the free period. But they continued the cover knowing they would 
have to pay something for the policy. The policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs J wouldve made a different 
decision about buying the policy if theyd had better information about its cost.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs J agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
Mr and Mrs J say theyve had PPI refunds for other policies they took out where their 
circumstances were similar. So I can see why they might consider theyre also due a refund 
in connection with this policy.But we consider each complaint according to its own particular facts. And even though a 
customers circumstances may be similar, the policies and products in connection with which 
the PPI was sold can differ.
Having considered the particular circumstances in connection with this complaint, for the 
reasons Ive explained Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman