DRN-2948865
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society delayed in completing the transfer of his
cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) into his stocks and shares ISA with another provider.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr L made a request to transfer the balance of his cash ISA with Nationwide of 
£109,700, into a stocks and shares ISA with another provider, which Ill call S. When the 
money hadnt reached S within 30 days, Mr L complained.
Nationwide said it had sent a cheque to S, which hadnt received it. Nationwide then
cancelled the cheque and said it would send the money electronically, but Mr L complained 
again when it wasnt received. The money was eventually credited to Mr Ls account with S
on 22 June 2020.
Mr L said that hed suffered a financial loss because of movements in the stock market
during this time. He calculated this to be £6,318.
Nationwide said that it had received the ISA transfer request on 26 May 2020, and had sent
a cheque to Ss given address the following day. It said that, if it receives a paper transfer
request then its procedure is to process this by cheque, which it did within the timescales for
making the transfer.
Our investigators findings
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said that the transfer letter S sent to
Nationwide suggested that the funds shouldve been sent by electronic transfer, rather than
by cheque. Although he acknowledged what Nationwide had said about its procedures, he
thought it would have been reasonable for it to have followed the request in the transfer
letter to avoid unnecessary delays.
The investigator said that S had received the cheque on 15 June 2020, which was after it
had already been stopped by Nationwide. It had received the CHAPS payment from
Nationwide on 19 June 2020, but had waited for confirmation about the status of the cheque
before completing the payment into Mr Ls ISA on 22 June 2020.
The investigator thought Nationwide should have processed Mr Ls transfer electronically in
the first instance, rather than by cheque. So he said Nationwide should calculate the interest
Mr L lost on his money from the time it left his ISA with Nationwide until it was credited to his
stocks and shares ISA. He also said Nationwide should pay Mr L £125 for the trouble and
upset he was caused.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings as it didnt provide financial recompense for the
losses hed incurred. He said that he felt £125 for the stress and inconvenience he was
caused was a paltry sum. He didnt think the findings were fair.
The investigator said that he considered the delay had been caused by the method 
Nationwide used to transfer the money, but that he couldnt say with certainty what Mr L had
lost out on from his investment if it had been transferred earlier. This was because, when the
money had been received, Mr L hadnt chosen to trade with it immediately and had done so
gradually, leaving the remainder of his money in cash in the ISA.
Nationwide also disagreed with the investigators findings. It said that the paperwork was
delayed in the postal system and not because of Nationwides administration. It said that it
had followed its standard procedures.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in June 2021. In summary, I thought it 
should be upheld. 
I said that I could fully appreciate that it will have been worrying for Mr L to not have an 
answer to where his money was after Nationwide had sent the cheque to S. And it will 
clearly have been frustrating to have to been passed between the two ISA managers when 
trying to find out what had happened.
Mr Ls transfer was a cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA. The government rules say that
ISA transfers should take no longer than 15 working days between cash ISAs and 30
calendar days for other types of transfers. And, in relation to transferring sums between ISA
products held with other ISA managers, Nationwides cash ISA terms and conditions say:
..(b) If you are transferring to a stocks and shares ISA, an innovative finance ISA or a
Lifetime ISA, we will transfer the money within the time stipulated by you or within 30 days of
receiving the request from your new ISA manager, whichever is the longer period.
I could see from its records that Nationwide received Mr Ls transfer request from S on 26 
May 2020 and sent it a cheque for the balance the following day. Although Ss letter said that
funds should be transferred to its client account, and cheques should only be issued if no
other payment method is possible, Nationwide explained that its working procedure is to
issue funds by cheque if a paper transfer request is received, as it was for Mr L.
I said that I appreciated that Nationwide followed its normal procedures for this sort of 
transfer, and that is a matter of its discretion. But I thought the application of those normal 
processes had led to an unfair outcome for Mr L in the particular circumstances at the time 
of the pandemic. I said it was clear that Nationwide would have been able to transfer the 
funds electronically, as it eventually did this. So I thought Nationwide should have sent 
Mr Ls money electronically and in accordance with the transfer request it received from S. 
This would have ensured the security of Mr Ls money and negated any issues with postal 
systems.
I said it was difficult to say with any certainty when the funds would have been available in 
Mr Ls account if they had been transferred electronically in the first instance. But it was also 
difficult to establish what investment choices Mr L may have made earlier or differently if this 
had been done. As the investigator said, the information Mr L provided which showed the
investment transactions he then made were carried out in a few stages over a two-month
period.I also took into account the relevant timescales for such a transfer. While I appreciated
that Mr L may have wanted to invest his money as soon as he could; it was possible and
within these timescales for that transfer to have taken up to 30 calendar days. So although it 
did take a few days longer than this to complete, I didnt think it would be reasonable to 
consider that Mr L should be awarded the sum he suggested.
If the transfer had taken 30 calendar days then during that time, Mr L would have earnt
interest on his cash ISA before the funds from it were released. From the information
Nationwide provided, I understood that this would have been a rate of 0.25% gross with
up to one withdrawal. If I considered that Mr Ls money wasnt earning this interest between 
the date of the cheque withdrawal of 27 May 2020, and the date it was deposited in his 
account with S, then this would be a total of 25 days of lost interest.
Overall, I thought this matter could have been avoided had Nationwide transferred Mr Ls 
ISA in the way S requested.
Because of this, I thought that Nationwide should pay Mr L a total of £200 by way of 
compensation. I suggested this amount as a total as I thought it compensated Mr L for the
lost interest I described and also the distress and inconvenience he was caused through
having to chase what had happened to his money.
The responses
Mr L didnt provide any further response to my provisional decision.
Nationwide said it had followed the correct process but had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Nationwides position that it considers it followed its usual process for ISA 
transfers. However, as I said in my provisional findings, I consider that the application of 
those normal processes in the particular circumstances here and considering the situation at 
the time during the pandemic, led to an unfair outcome for Mr L. Nationwide was in a 
position to transfer his ISA electronically, as had been requested by S and, if it had chosen 
to do this, this may have negated some of the issues and inconvenience Mr L then 
experienced.
Putting things right
Its because of this that my findings remain as I set out in my provisional decision. I think 
Nationwide should pay Mr L a total of £200 by way of compensation, which would recognise 
both his lost interest and the distress and inconvenience he was caused through having to 
chase what had happened to his money.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr L £200 in compensation for his lost interest and the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman