DRN-4132692
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Bruford & Vallance (B&V) to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr W was in contact with B&V in October 1988 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
There is very little information available from the time of sale. Whilst this is unfortunate, it is 
partly due to the passage of time. And this is exacerbated by the fact that business that sold 
this pension is now dissolved and has been for some time. Its unclear what, if any 
information, it still holds about this sale. It also doesnt seem like the sale of this plan was 
reviewed under the personal pension review. 
I cant see that a fact find, or similar, document was completed. And I dont have any 
illustrations, or similar, that show what information about the benefits of the pension Mr W 
may have been given. But what I do know is that:
Mr W was 27 and self-employed. He didnt have another occupational scheme he 
could join. 
He was single with no dependents.
He says he didnt have any other savings, or investments, and he wanted to take a 
lower risk with his pension planning. 
Mr W had deferred benefits in a DB scheme. He had just over six and a half years 
service in this and the annual pension at his date of leaving was £704 with a terminal 
grant of £2,112.22. 
The normal retirement date of the scheme was age 60, and it had transfer value at 
the time of the advice of £4,057.42. 
Mr W had a pensionable salary of £7,538 at the date of leaving employment.
B&V advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the 
proceeds with a third party in its Equity and Managed funds. 
Mr W complained in 2022 to B&V about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
whilst there was very little information about the transfer, he thought that it was likely that the 
returns the personal pension would need to produce to match the DB scheme benefits were 
not achievable, and so the transfer was not likely to have been suitable for him. 
B&V didnt properly respond to Mr Ws complaint. But it did say that it had no recollection of 
the sale and any records it may have had would have been disposed of when the original 
business was wound up 34 years ago. The files may have been acquired by a new business 
owner, but they arent available. It would have complied with the pension review but doesnt 
have a record of this. It thought that, overall, this meant the complaint had been brought to 
late. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators considered the jurisdiction of the complaint. He thought that the 
complaint was brought in time. Whilst it was made six years after the event complained 
about, he thought that Mr W had complained within three years of when he became aware 
he had cause to complain. And so, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider the 
complaint. 
Our Investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. He said that the growth 
rates at the time, although high, wouldve seemed achievable. Mr W was relatively young, 
the transfer values were modest, and he had a long time to build up other provisions. He 
was likely to have been able to take a risk with the DB scheme benefits. So, it wasnt 
unreasonable to recommend that the transfer was made. 
Mr W and his representative disagreed, saying that the burden of proof should be with the 
business to show the advice was suitable for Mr W. It hasnt done this. And it was unlikely to 
be suitable for him to have transferred these benefits and a pension review would have 
shown this. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of B&V's actions here.
The advice was provided by B&V in 1988. At this time, according to a regulatory history 
screen shot it has provided, it was a member of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and 
Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). 
The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. The key 
rules applying from April 1998 were as follows:
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide 
investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.In July 1988 an amendment to the guidelines on best advice required members to ensure 
their recommendations were made on the basis of the client's best interests rather than the 
income generated for the member.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr W with this in mind.
Our jurisdiction
Our Investigator thought the complaint was within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Neither party has commented on this. I have thought about this issue 
as well and I agree that the complaint is within our jurisdiction for the same reasons the 
Investigator said. I wont comment any further about this as there seems to be no dispute 
about it now. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here.  That said, I 
dont have any information that shows what the personal pension funds would need to grow 
at to replace the benefits given up. 
But any illustrated growth rates were likely to be reasonably high. This is because it was 
credible, at the time of sale, to say that investment returns would be high for the foreseeable 
future. And this is illustrated by this the upper limit the regulator gave for a Financial Viability 
Test which was 12.7% each year for 32 years to retirement in this case. 
For further information, the regulator's upper investment growth projection rate at the time 
was 13%, the middle projection rate 10.75%, and the lower projection rate 8.5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, and 
what I know about Mr W's circumstances. Mr W was relatively young at the time of sale. And 
it was unlikely that this transfer would represent a large proportion of his overall retirement 
provisions. This is because the transfer value, and the benefits it provided, were relatively 
modest and Mr W did have a long time before retirement to build up other provision. Mr W 
didnt have an occupational scheme he could join.
Overall, I think it would be reasonable for Mr W to have been able to take a risk with this 
pension. And given the time the advice was given, and the likely investment returns at the 
time, it may have been that it was likely the personal pension would produce a higher 
income than the DB scheme. 
Taking all of this into consideration I dont think it would be right to say the transfer was 
unsuitable because the personal pension was placed in risk bearing investments rather than 
left in the DB scheme. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that the advice led to Mr W 
taking too high a risk.   
Death benefits
Mr W was single, and as far as I have been made aware, did not have any dependents. So, I 
think he may have indicated that he did not have a need for the spouses or dependents 
pension that the DB scheme provided. So, I dont think losing these benefits disadvantaged 
Mr W. And I think its possible he would have preferred the ability to pass on whatever 
remained of his pension to a beneficiary of their choice on his death. Although I can accept 
that given that he was very young this may not have been discussed in any detail. Summary
Overall, I agree with our Investigator that its likely given what I know about this pension and 
Mr Ws circumstances that it isnt certain that he wouldnt have wanted to take some kind of 
risk with this pension. And the transfer to the personal pension wasnt unsuitable where this 
is the case. 
And Im conscious in making this decision that the complaint submitted does not really say 
why Mr W thinks the sale was unsuitable for him in respect of his individual circumstances. I 
appreciate that evidence is limited here, due to the passage of time and the situation with 
B&V. 
But the complaint is largely that this sale was likely to be unsuitable for Mr W as sales of DB 
transfers around this time could be unsuitable. The personal pension review does support 
this to some degree, but it isnt enough to uphold Mr Ws complaint on this basis here. 
Having considered everything I dont think its been demonstrated that the sale was 
unsuitable for Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman