DRN-4439278
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined their parts 
and garage insurance claim.
Acromas has used representatives for the claim and complaint. For ease of reading Ive 
referred to the representatives actions as being those of Acromas. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs S car had a breakdown. They called their roadside assistance 
insurer. The roadside assistance agent couldnt start the car. He took it to a garage. The 
garage replaced a filter. The car still wouldnt start. The garage said the starter motor was 
damaged. Eventually, after various events, Mr and Mrs S paid for its replacement. 
They claimed for the cost of the replacement starter motor on their Acromas parts and 
garage policy. But the claim was declined. Acromas said the starter motor wasnt the cause 
of the initial breakdown, so wasnt covered by their policy.
Unsatisfied with Acromas response their complaint Mr and Mrs S came to this service. They 
say the experience has been stressful and left them without a car. To put things right they 
would like Aromas to cover their various related costs. 
Our Investigator felt the claim had been unfairly declined. She felt the starter motor was 
likely the cause of the initial breakdown. So she recommended Acromas reimburse Mr and 
Mrs S for the costs of the replacement  plus £100 compensation.  As Acromas didnt accept 
that outcome the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require Acromas to pay the claim. I also 
invited Mr and Mrs S to provide any comments or evidence they would like me to consider 
before issuing a final decision. Neither side responded by the deadline.  
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs S and Acromas provided. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
Acromas provides Mr and Mrs S parts and garage cover. It doesnt provide their 
roadside assistance cover. Thats provided by a different insurer. So I cant consider 
their concerns about the performance of the roadside assistance agent in this 
decision. I can only look at Acromas provision of their parts and garage policy. 
Acromas has referred to an exclusion in the policy to decline the claim. This excludes 
faults which didnt cause the initial breakdown. It feels the starter motor wasnt the 
initial cause of the breakdown. It says it was consequential damage following the 
filter freezing. Its view is that the frozen filter stopped fuel supply. Then long 
progressive cranking, in an attempt to start the car, damaged the starter.
Having considered everything provided, including Mr and Mrs S account, I cant say 
Acromas position is unfair or unreasonable. Its accepted that the filter was damaged. 
It was replaced. Mr and Mrs S have explained to this service that the roadside 
assistance agent repeatedly turned the car over. They quoted him admitting he may 
have damaged the starter motor. That would imply the starter motor wasnt damaged 
before his intervention. 
Mr and Mrs S have complained to the roadside assistance provider about the agent 
potentially damaging the starter motor. I accept it didnt accept liability. But their 
account supports Acromas argument that it wasnt that part, but instead the filter, 
that caused the initial breakdown. 
The policy excludes faults which didnt cause the initial breakdown. It seems likely to 
me the starter didnt cause it. So I cant say Acromas decision not to cover the cost of 
its replacement is unfair. That means Im not going to require to reimburse that cost. 
The policy excludes fuel filters. So Im not going to require Acromas to cover that 
item either.
Our Investigator recommended Aromas pay compensation as the claim was unfairly 
declined. As I dont agree with that it, follows that Im not awarding the compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I didnt receive any responses to my provisional decision, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me to change my position. That means Im not going to require Acromas to pay Mr 
and Mrs S claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to settle 
Mr and Mrs S claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman