DRN-1838362
The complaint
Ms W complains Howserv Limited have charged her for travel insurance policies she didnt 
agree to.
What happened
In July 2016 Ms W says she bought a one-off annual policy  but she then realised Howserv 
had charged her for policies in 2017, 2018 and 2019 which she says she didnt agree to.
Ms W contacted Howserv and was told shed bought a policy that renewed each year. She 
didnt agree with that, and said shed only bought a policy for one year. She says Howservs 
representative listened to the initial phone call she had in 2016, and they confirmed shed 
bought a policy that renewed every year. Ms W asked for a copy of that call, but when 
Howserv said it couldnt be provided because itd been over two years, she complained.
Howserv replied to the complaint and said each year new policy documents would have 
been sent to Ms W by email, and renewal notices would have been sent by post. They also 
said the email address they had on file had been confirmed as correct by Ms W when she 
complained in 2019.
Unhappy with this Ms W asked us to look into things explaining shed been told the call in 
July 2016, when shed apparently agreed to the policy renewing each year  had been 
listened to. This was in August 2019 when she complained. But, when she asked for a copy 
of it only two weeks later, they told her they didnt keep calls for over two years. She also 
told us she may have received the renewal documents by post but thrown them out as junk 
mail because she wasnt expecting anything  and had poor eyesight until 2019 so may not 
have read her bank statements clearly either.
One of our investigators considered all this information, but ultimately felt Howserv had acted 
fairly when renewing Ms Ws policies. Ms W didnt agree with this outcome. She argued that 
Howserv telling her about the renewal of a policy she says she never agreed to renew in the 
first place is gross misconduct. She says she felt no legal obligation to read what Howserv 
sent her as shed not initiated any contact with them. Ms W also emphasised shed never 
bought a renewable policy, so cant be held responsible for the automatic renewal of it, or for 
not reading Howservs emails. And she was concerned wed not listened to the call in August 
2019 when she said shed been told her initial call in July 2016 had been listened to.
Because Ms W didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W says the call from 2016 was listened to by one of Howservs agents. But Ive not seen 
any evidence of that. Ive listened to the call where Ms W raised her complaint in 
August 2019  and she was told theyd try and listen to the call, not that it had been listened 
to.
Howserv have since said they dont keep call recordings for more than two years. I dont find 
this particularly unusual, so I cant say theyve done anything wrong in deleting the call.
Because we dont have this call, I need to decide this complaint based on what I think is 
more likely than not  taking into account all of the evidence available.
Ive been provided evidence from Ms W and from Howserv to show renewal notices and / or 
policy documents were sent to Ms W.
The email and postal addresses used are the same ones Ms W currently has  so Im 
satisfied she would most likely have received this information. Ms W herself suggests this is 
a possibility  and has said she thought anything through the post from Howserv was junk 
mail as she wasnt expecting anything further about a policy. And any emails from Howserv 
were just marketing emails, so she didnt look at them.
Ms W feels very strongly that she didnt agree to the renewals of the policy and thinks 
Howserv havent acted properly. I cant know for certain whether Ms W did agree on the 
phone in July 2016 for her policies to renew or not. But, on balance, I think its more likely 
than not she did. I say that because Howserv did everything Id expect them to have done to 
make Ms W aware her policy was renewing each year  and Id only expect them to do that 
if she agreed to it. 
Its clear Ms Ws really frustrated  but Im satisfied its more likely than not Howserv made 
her aware the policy was renewing each year. And I cant hold them responsible for Ms W 
not looking at the information they sent her.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman