DRN-2003361
The complaint
Ms M has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Ms M was in an accident. Advantage decided her car was a total loss and offered to settle 
her claim for it based on the cars pre-accident market value. Ms M didn't think that was fair 
as she felt she should be eligible for a new car replacement under the terms of her policy.
She complained about that and some other aspects of Advantages service. Advantage dealt 
with Ms Ms complaint in two separate responses. But for ease I will refer to them both 
together here. Advantage didn't agree that Ms M qualified for a new car replacement. But it 
did accept that some of its service could have been better. And it offered Ms M £300 
compensation to address her distress and inconvenience arising from that. 
Ms M wasn't happy with Advantages response to her concerns so her complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Was Ms M entitled to a new car replacement under the terms of her policy?
Ms Ms policy says that if her car is a total loss while its less than a year old then she would 
be entitled to a new car replacement as long as certain criteria are met. And of importance to 
this complaint those criteria include that Advantages estimate for repairing the car is more 
than 60% of the current manufacturers list price. Advantage said the list price for the car 
was £11,580.
Ms Ms car was initially assessed by a repairer approved by her manufacturer, who 
estimated its repair costs at around £6,621. Advantage said that was less than 60% of the 
cars list price. Ms M said that the repairers estimate didn't include any further work that 
might have been discovered once repairs had begun. Ms M noted that the repair estimate 
included unpriced parts. Also, she said shed spoken with the repairer who'd told her that 
there could be up to £1,500 worth of additional repairs required, and that would have meant 
that repairs were above the 60% threshold. 
I wasn't party to Ms Ms conversation with the repairer but, with some repairs, its possible 
that extra work might be required once repairs begin. So I can understand that a repairer 
might say that this was a possibility. But that doesn't mean that there would undoubtedly 
have been additional repairs required. Also, Advantage noted that there was only one 
unpriced item on the repairers estimate. It said it had priced this item and it still wouldn't 
have brought the repairers estimate above 60% of the cars list price.
Further, Advantage had a second estimate done by a salvage yards engineer. That estimate 
was around £400 less than the one from the manufacturers approved repairer. So 
Advantage had received two estimates for repairs and both of these were below the 60% 
threshold that would enable Ms M to qualify for a new car replacement under the terms of 
her policy. And on that basis Advantage said Ms M wasnt entitled to a new car replacement.
I note Advantage also told Ms M that if she could provide another engineers estimate then it 
would reconsider the matter. I understand that this was made more difficult for Ms M as 
Advantage had moved the car from the repairers to the salvage yard without telling her. But 
Ms Ms policy says that if her car is deemed a total loss then it may move it to storage until 
the claim is settled. And she could have instructed an independent engineer to view and 
estimate the car there, although that would have been at her own cost. But Ms M didn't do 
so. And as the only estimates that Advantage had were below the 60% threshold, I think it 
was reasonable for it to say Ms M wasn't entitled to a new car replacement.
For completeness Ill add that Advantage also said Ms M wasnt entitled to a new car 
replacement because the manufacturer no longer made that precise model. The policy 
actually says that Advantage will only provide a new car where the car is in current 
production. And given that the manufacturer was no longer producing the exact model as 
Ms Ms car I think it was reasonable for Advantage to conclude that it wasnt in current 
production. But in any event, even if that hadn't been the case and the model of Ms Ms car 
was still being made, as I've said above, as the estimate didn't meet the 60% repair cost 
threshold then her policy didn't entitle her to a new car. And I think Advantage has provided 
a reasonable explanation for this, even though it's clear that Miss M doesnt agree with it.
Service 
Ms M complained about a number of aspects of Advantages service. In reply its 
acknowledged it didn't get everything right and its accepted that: it sent a letter to an 
incorrect address; didn't tell Ms M it had moved her car from the repairers to the salvage 
yard; delayed the handling of her claim; didn't initially respond to all the points shed raised 
with it; didn't provide a detailed breakdown of costs; didnt make calls back as promised and 
didn't arrange for Ms M to speak with its in-house engineers.
Clearly Advantage could have done more to make Ms Ms claim journey smoother. And I can 
understand her frustration as a result of Advantages admitted failings. But it has apologised 
and offered her £300 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience arising from 
the service issues. Im aware Ms M might not think that goes far enough. However, I think 
thats a reasonable sum in the circumstances, as it's in line with awards I would make in 
cases of similar seriousness.
Policy wording
Ms M said her policys wording is misleading because it gives the impression that it would 
entitle her to a new car if hers was a total loss. And she said if shed realised she might not 
be entitled to a new car replacement she might have taken out a guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) policy or something else to protect her. 
But I don't think the policy is misleading. It says that if her car is uneconomical to repair then 
it will deem it a total loss. The policy doesn't specify what uneconomical to repair means. 
And I don't think it needs to. It seems Advantage has told Ms M that, generally, it will deem a 
car uneconomical to repair if the repair costs are more than 60% of its market value. But Advantage could apply a higher or lower percentage if it felt the circumstances of the claim 
warranted it. And, as long as it arrives at its decision reasonably that's a decision its entitled 
to come to. So if it feels that, generally, a car is a total loss when repair costs are over 60% 
of its market value thats a decision its reasonable for it to arrive at.
Ms Ms pointed out that in order to be entitled to new car replacement, if the car is deemed a 
total loss within 12 months from being new, then the repair costs need to be above 60% of 
the list price. And as the list price will inevitably be higher than the market value, as cars 
lose value quite quickly from new, then the policy is misleading that new car replacement will 
apply. But I don't agree thats the case. The policy is clear that in order for that section to 
apply then certain criteria must be met. And, of importance to this decision, those criteria 
include first that the car is deemed a total loss and second that the costs of repairs are over 
60% of the list price. The policy doesn't indicate that Ms M would be entitled to a new car 
replacement simply because Advantage decided her car was uneconomical to repair. I think 
thats clear in the policy and I don't find it unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman