DRN-3663923
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Erudio Student Loans Limited declined his deferment application for 
his student loan.
What happened
Mr O held a student loan with Erudio. Mr O also holds other student loans with another 
company. Because of the shared nature of his overall student loan debt, the primary contact 
for his student loans was a third company, which acted as an administering company. This 
administering company was responsible for issuing letters to Mr O, including any deferment 
applications for his Erudio loan.
Mr O had deferred his Erudio loan previously in 2017, but that deferment period ended on 19 
October 2018, at which time Mr O became liable to make monthly payments towards the 
outstanding balance. Notably, when Mr O had deferred his Erudio loan in 2017, the loan had 
been in a position of arrears at that time, and Mr O didnt make any payments to clear those 
arrears during the time that the loan was deferred.
In August 2018, with the most recent deferment period coming to an end, the administering 
company issued a deferment application form (DAF) to Mr O so he could apply to defer the 
repayment of the loan again. Mr O didnt receive that DAF, but he later received a letter from 
the administering company which confirmed that the Erudio loan had been newly deferred.
However, Mr O later learned that his Erudio loan hadnt been deferred, and that because he 
hadnt made the payments due on the loan when the most recent deferment ended in 
October 2018 that Erudio had terminated his account. Mr O contacted Erudio and explained 
the situation, but Erudio said that the loan couldnt now be reinstated, and the full balance of 
the loan was due. Mr O wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Erudio looked at Mr Os complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr O 
and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O wasnt satisfied with Erudios response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Erudio had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr O remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has said he didnt receive the DAF that the administering company sent to him, and 
that the administering company explained verbally to him that this is because they sent the 
DAF to an old outdated address that had been applied incorrectly to that one particular letter.
But the administering company have provided different information to Erudio and have 
instead confirmed that Mr Os address has been correct since he updated it with them in 
January 2018 and that all subsequent letters have been sent to that address.
Mr O has stated that he often doesnt receive letters sent to his address because another 
nearby address is very similar and that post often gets delivered incorrectly to that other 
address. I can appreciate Mr Os position here, to a degree. But this service wouldnt hold a 
business accountable for the non-delivery by a postal service of correctly sent letter. And if it 
were the case that important mail was at risk of being incorrectly delivered, I feel its 
reasonable to expect Mr O to have taken measures to mitigate against this.
One such measure could have been Mr O taking a more proactive approach to renewing the 
deferment of his Erudio loan. And given that Mr O was aware of the end date of the prior 
renewal period, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me to have expected Mr O to have 
contacted both the administering company and Erudio directly if the end date of that prior 
deferment period was approaching and if Mr O hadnt received the DAF as expected.
Indeed, Erudio have confirmed that if Mr O had contacted them that they could and would 
have placed a hold on his account while simultaneously contacting the administering 
company to ensure that a replacement DAF was sent to Mr O. And Mr O spoken with Erudio 
previously a few months earlier when Erudio were chasing the repayment of the arrears that 
remained unpaid on Mr Os account throughout the most recent deferral period.
In short, I feel that Mr O, as the account holder, was ultimately responsible for ensuring that 
any request to defer his loan again was made on time, regardless of what letters and forms 
were or werent received to his address.
I also dont feel that it can reasonably be stated that Erudio have done anything wrong here. 
This includes that Erudio sent letters directly to Mr O when the loan wasnt renewed and 
when Mr O didnt make the monthly payments that then because due, meaning that Mr Os 
account fell further into arrears. And Mr O has confirmed that he received these letters but 
didnt act upon them, because he had already received notice from the administering 
company that the Erudio loan had in fact been deferred again.
The administering company did send such a notice to Mr O by mistake. But this notice was 
sent to Mr O in March 2019, which was after the deferral period had ended in October 2018, 
and after Erudio sent the letters that Mr O received about his loan account falling further into 
arrears. Indeed, because of the arrears of the account, Erudio terminated the loan 
agreement in February 2019, meaning the loan account was terminated before the 
administering company mistakenly informed Mr O that the Erudio loan had been deferred.
The administering company have admitted their error in this regard. But its not an error that 
Erudio bear any accountability for or one which had any impact on the termination of the 
loan account. And I remain satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Erudio to follow the 
account arrears process they did that resulted in the termination of the loan agreement.
Finally, Mr O has explained that he was going through some difficult personal circumstances 
during the time in question. I can sympathise with Mr O in this regard. But I feel that there 
was a reasonable amount of time for Mr O to have contacted Erudio as explained, even if 
only to advise of the difficulties he was facing at that time. And I feel it must be remembered 
that the reason Mr Os loan agreement reached an arrears position whereby the termination 
of that account happened as quickly as it did was because Mr O hadnt cleared the arrears 
that had remained on his account throughout the entirety of the most recent deferral period.
All of which means that I dont feel that Erudio have acted unfairly or unreasonably here as 
Mr O contends, and it follows from this that my final decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Erudio to take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome 
Mr O was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman