DRN-3919470
The complaint
Mr T complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited (trading as Insure2Drive) unfairly 
rejected his claim on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a luxury sports utility vehicle made by a 
premium-brand car maker and first registered in about 2012. I will refer to it as the car.
For the year from mid- November 2021, Mr T had a Sabre policy for a different vehicle. In 
late November 2021, he put the car on the policy. It was covered for third party, fire and theft 
risks.
In early April 2022, Mr T reported that someone had stolen the car.
Sabre instructed an investigator. Mr T gave the investigator two key fobs. A vehicle key 
analyst examined two key fobs. They reported that one of the fobs hadnt been used in the 
car since January 2022. They also reported that the other fob was for a car of the same 
make (but a different model) that had been destroyed in October 2021.
Sabre rejected Mr Ts claim. Mr T complained to Sabre about that.
By a final response dated July 2022, Sabre turned down the complaint.
Mr T brought his complaint to us in late August 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that Sabre had investigated all possibilities before reaching its decision on Mr Ts 
claim.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
He has never been in contact with the car that the spurious key is from.
Insure2drive have still not proved unequivocally that the key fobs he gave the 
investigator are the same key fobs it investigated.
Thieves may have removed the key fob and the attached house keys from his person 
without his knowledge while he was in a busy public house after a football match, 
swapped over the key fob along and with his house keys and returned them to his 
person. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for a motor insurance policy to exclude a claim for theft of a vehicle 
which had been left unattended with the keys in it.
Sabres policy terms included the following:
We shall not be liable for
j) loss of or damage to your vehicle or anything contained therein arising from theft or 
attempted theft whilst the vehicle is left unattended or temporarily unoccupied and
you are not in a position to intervene if:
i. your vehicle has not been secured by means of the door and boot locks.
ii. the windows or any form of sliding or removable panel roof or hood on your vehicle 
has been left open or unlocked.
iii. the ignition keys (which include ignition cards, lock transmitters or any other form 
of vehicle entry device) have been left in or on your vehicle, whether concealed or 
otherwise.
iv. any security devices fitted to the vehicle are not activated or operational when 
vehicle is left unattended.
Separately, I wouldnt find it unfair or unreasonable for an insurer to turn down a theft claim 
where the remaining physical evidence wasnt consistent with the policyholders report of the 
circumstances of the theft.
So, in Mr Ts case, Sabre investigated the number and whereabouts of the key fobs for the 
car.
Unfortunately for Mr T, the fob he had been using in early April 2022 is still missing.
For many months, Mr T maintained that Sabres investigator or its key analyst had 
mishandled and lost that key fob (substituting a similar key fob). 
However, Im satisfied that Sabre conducted a reasonable and proportionate investigation 
into the handling of the key fobs Mr T had given the investigator. I dont find that Sabre 
treated Mr T unfairly by concluding that the evidence showed that he hadnt given the 
investigator the fob he had been using in early April 2022.
Mr T has made a more recent suggestion that the thieves stole that fob from his person and 
substituted a similar fob without his knowledge. I find it unlikely that a thief wouldve gone to 
the additional effort and risk of coming equipped with a similar fob and  having taken Mr Ts 
bunch of keys - substituting that fob in the bunch and replacing it on Mr T. So I dont 
consider that Mr T has helped his complaint with that suggestion.
Overall, I dont conclude that Sabre treated Mr T unfairly by turning down his claim. I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Sabre to pay the claim or to do any more in response to 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Sabre Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman