DRN-1841967
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
August 2004. Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her the 
PPI.
What happened
Mrs R applied for the credit card using a postal application form. Our adjudicator thought 
Barclays had mis-sold the PPI because it hadnt given Mrs R a fair choice about whether to 
buy the PPI or not.
Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint was passed to me.
In May 2020 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think about.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending to uphold this complaint, in my 
provisional decision I set out my reasons as follows:
"I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this so many years later.
In her original complaint to Barclays Mrs R said she applied for the credit card by post. In the 
questionnaire she completed for this service Mrs R said she was given a leaflet to complete.
Barclays dont hold a copy of the original application form but from what Mrs R has been 
consistent in her recollection that she applied for the credit card using a postal application 
form. So I think this is most likely.
From experience I am aware that Barclays postal application forms from 2004 would have 
contained a section on PPI and Mrs R would have needed to tick or cross a box to add PPI 
to her account. Barclays has been able to send us two examples of postal application forms. 
One from August 2004 and another from September 2004. I see that both of these 
applications contain boxes marked yes and no that the consumer could tick in order to 
accept or decline PPI.
I also note the PPI premiums would have appeared on Mrs Rs monthly statements as 
purchases marked Payment Protection Plan until the account was closed in October 2005. 
And if Mrs R hadnt selected the PPI, I think its likely shed have questioned these premiums 
at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence she did.
As Mrs R applied for the credit card and was sold the PPI by post, I dont think she had any 
verbal contact with Barclays. So, I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs R. So, 
it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible that Barclays didnt give Mrs R all the information it should have done. But thats 
not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mrs R would have changed her mind about buying the policy if she been given better or clearer information. I 
cant say she would have done. I say this because:
I think Mrs R chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she was interested in this type of 
cover.
Mrs R has told us that she would have received some sick pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work. But the PPI sold to her by Barclays could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 
12 months if Mrs R became unwell. And thats likely to have been for longer than her sick 
pay would last. So, I think Mrs R would have found the policy useful if she became too 
unwell to work. Particularly if she couldnt work for a lengthy spell.
The policy would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mrs R had lost her job.
I cant see that Mrs R wouldve been caught by any of the exclusions or limits on the policy. 
For instance, Mrs R has told us she had no medical conditions which may not have been 
covered. And she wasnt in an unusual employment situation which might affect her ability to 
claim. So, it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
In summary I think its most likely Barclays made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs R 
chose to add it to her account. And I dont think any clearer information about the policy 
would have made Mrs R act differently and decline the policy.
Both parties have now replied to my provisional findings.
Barclays and Mrs Rs representatives have both contacted us to say they have nothing to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Barclays nor Mrs R have replied with any new evidence or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
May 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman