DRN-3164769
The complaint
Mr C in his capacity as trustee of the J Trust, has complained about the investment advice 
given to the trustees by Frenkel Topping Limited.
What happened
The J Trust was established in July 2016 for the benefit of Miss C following a successful 
medical negligence claim. Miss C and her father, Mr C, are the trustees.
In November 2016 the trustees sought investment advice from Frenkel Topping. The 
trustees say they were considering investing in a buy-to-let (BTL) property, which they 
thought would achieve a return of 6% to 7% per year. But after speaking to Frenkel Topping, 
they were advised to invest £130,000 in a managed portfolio with Frenkel Topping. The 
funds were invested as per the recommendation in February 2017.
In May 2018 the trustees attended a review with Frenkel Topping, where they expressed 
concern with the performance of the investment. This resulted in a change to the investment 
strategy. In February 2019 the trustees decided to withdraw the funds to buy a property.
Mr C complained to Frenkel Topping in June 2020. He didnt think the advice was suitable, 
as it had caused a financial loss of around £10,000. Mr C said the trustees were told that the 
recommended portfolio would produce an annual return of 6% to 7%, matching what they 
hoped to achieve by purchasing a BTL property. This persuaded them to invest as they did.
Frenkel Topping didnt agree that the advice was unsuitable. It said that the recommended 
investment met the trustees objectives of investing over 5-10 years and matched their risk 
appetite. It said the adviser had made it clear that returns were not guaranteed.
Mr C referred the trustees concerns to our service. He said an investment of 5-10 years had 
not been discussed and had they been advised that a return of 6% to 7% wouldve only been 
achievable in 10 years they wouldnt have gone ahead with it. Mr C said Frenkel Topping 
was aware the trustees were only looking to invest for three to five years in order to buy a 
property in the near future.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the advice was suitable and didnt 
think Frenkel Topping had misled the trustees about the potential returns. The investigator 
thought the assessment of the trustees attitude to risk of medium was reasonable and he 
was satisfied the risks associated with the investment had been explained.
The trustees didnt accept this and ultimately asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
They said that they were not really concerned with the risk level; their main concern was that 
Frenkel Topping didnt explain things adequately. The trustees said the adviser didnt go 
through the paperwork with them, which contained important information. Mr C maintained 
that if Frenkel Topping had explained it would take up to 10 years to achieve their objectives 
they would not have invested the funds with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter carefully, Im not upholding the complaint for largely the same 
reasons as the investigator. I appreciate this will be disappointing for the trustees, so Ill 
explain why.
It is first important to say that there is clearly a conflict here between what Mr C says was 
discussed and what Frenkel Topping recorded in the paperwork completed following the 
meetings. Where there is a conflict between the evidence I have to make a decision based 
on what I think is most likely. So, I have taken everything Mr C has told us into account, but 
Ive had to weigh that up against the documents provided by Frenkel Topping when making 
my decision.
Ive reviewed the fact-find, risk report and the Recommendation Overview and Advice 
Document. The fact-find serves as a record of the information obtained by Frenkel Topping 
at the initial meetings, to establish the trustees circumstances and objectives. The risk 
report determines the risk the trustees are prepared to take to achieve their objectives. The 
recommendation made by Frenkel Topping would be based on the information gathered in 
the fact-find and risk report.
The fact-find shows that the trustees said their main objective for the £160,000 Miss C 
received in settlement of her claim was to support Miss C and any treatment or care 
requirements she might have in the future. The adviser recorded the objectives over the 
short-term, medium-term and long-term as follows.
Short-term  0 to 12 months
For Miss C to repay her parents £6,000 for past treatment costs.
Medium-term  1 year to 5 years
For Miss C to learn to drive and buy a car  Miss C wanted to set aside £10,000 for 
the car purchase and would meet the cost of driving lessons through her disposable 
income.
Miss C intended to have a private medical operation, which she planned to undergo 
in three to four years time  Miss C estimated a cost of £5,000.
Long-term  5 years plus
For the settlement money to support Miss Cs additional needs such as care or 
having her own family.
[Miss C] told me that although she is not certain of what her future will hold for her, 
she does like to think that she may purchase a home of her own one day, whether to 
live in or rent as a [BTL], if this was to happen, this would not take place for at least 5 
years.
Mr C says that investing for three to five years was all that was discussed, in order to 
facilitate a property purchase. He says Frenkel Topping knew Miss C intended to buy 
property in the near future and that purchasing a BTL had already been considered but 
discounted by Frenkel Topping. But I think the notes recorded in the fact-find demonstrate 
that it was hoped Miss C would buy a property in the future, possibly on a BTL basis, but this 
wasnt expected to be for at least five years. And I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that Frenkel Topping advised Miss C and Mr C against investing in property.The copy of the fact-find Ive seen is signed by Miss C and Mr C, which I think shows Miss C 
and Mr C had an opportunity to review the content of the document. This is important, 
because it means that Miss C and Mr C had the chance to correct any mistakes or 
misunderstandings before the recommendation was made by Frenkel Topping. It doesnt 
appear that Miss C or Mr C raised any concerns with the objectives noted by Frenkel 
Topping, particularly in respect of the time-frames recorded for each objective. So, I have to 
assume that Miss C and Mr C considered this was an accurate reflection of their objectives 
at the time. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Mr C and Miss Cs intention at the time of 
the advice in 2017 was to purchase a property within three to five years.
The risk report contains extra information about Miss Cs objectives. It states the adviser had 
discussed her capacity for loss and recorded that Miss C said she had no need to access 
the money for five years, if not longer. This is consistent with the fact-find. It notes that 
Miss C was not an experienced investor but recognised the need to take some risk to 
maximise returns. The adviser settled on a risk profile of medium or 5/10. Based on what 
Ive seen I think this is a reasonable assessment of the trustees attitude to risk, and I note 
that this is not disputed by Mr C or Miss C.
The Recommendation Overview and Advice Document, dated 15 February 2017, set out 
Miss Cs circumstances and  repeated the objectives recorded in the fact-find  this included 
Miss Cs hope to purchase a home, but not for at least five years. Frenkel Topping noted that 
Miss C had repaid her parents £6,000 so she had had £154,000 available for investment. It 
recommended that Miss C keep £24,000 in the trust bank account to meet the cost of the car 
purchase, the private medical operation and to act as an emergency fund. So, this 
recommendation addressed the objectives Miss C had identified over the next five years.
To meet Miss Cs longer-term objectives, which had an investment horizon of five years plus, 
Frenkel Topping recommended she invest the remaining £130,000 in its Safety First 5 
Multimanager Portfolio via a General Investment Account (GIA), which targeted a growth 
return of 7% per year. Frenkel Topping said the aim of this strategy was to provide inflation 
plus returns and modest growth without exhibiting high levels of volatility  volatility was 
capped at 9%. It explained that the recommended portfolio is considered to be a medium to 
long term investment (five years plus) and made it clear that there could be fluctuations in 
the value of the investment over time.
Overall, I think the recommendation was suitable as the recommended strategy aimed to 
provide growth above inflation over the long term. I appreciate that the report stated that the 
portfolio aimed to provide annual returns of 7%, but it didnt say that the returns were 
guaranteed. It also clearly explained that there could be fluctuations in the value of the 
investment but that volatility would be capped at 9% per year. So, although I appreciate that 
Miss C and Mr C are disappointed with the performance, I dont think I can reasonably say 
they were led to believe the investment would produce guaranteed returns of 6% to 7% a 
year.
Mr C says that the adviser failed to go through the report with him and Miss C, which was 
necessary because Miss C was vulnerable. He thinks the risks of the arrangement were not 
adequately explained. I wasnt present at the meetings, so I cant know for certain how much 
was verbally explained to Miss C and Mr C. But I think its likely that the basic risks of 
investing, such as that investment returns depend on market performance and can fluctuate, 
were explained to Miss C and Mr C. Mr C also acknowledges in his complaint letter to 
Frenkel Topping that they were told the value of shares could go up or down. I also know 
that they were given a Key Information Document, dated 15 February 2017, which 
contained a copy of the fact-find, the risk assessment and information about the investment 
selected. This was given to Mr C and Miss C together with the Recommendation Overview and Advice Document. Section 3 of the Key Information Document contained information 
about the GIA and the following warnings were given:
Risk Warnings
The value of the Offshore Bond, GIA or ISA, and any returns, depends on the 
performance of the underlying investments.
The value of the investments can fall as well as rise and you may get back less than 
you invested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future returns.
If the assumed investment growth is not achieved then the value of the investment 
may be less than invested.
The platform charge, investment manager charges, stock broking charges, our 
remuneration and any other deductions will have an impact on the value of your 
investment. These charges may vary and you should be aware that any increase in 
charges would have an adverse impact on the value of your investment.
If money is withdrawn from the investment you may not get back the full amount 
invested, particularly in the early years.
So, overall, I think Miss C and Mr C were most likely given enough information about the 
risks associated with the investments. This included the impact of fees on the value of the 
investment and the risk of not getting back the full amount invested if the funds were 
withdrawn in the early years, as is what happened here. If this didnt meet with Miss C and 
Mr Cs understanding of things, or if on reflection they no longer thought this was appropriate 
they could have raised this with Frenkel Topping. However, they chose to go ahead with the 
recommendation.
Ive taken on board what Mr C has said about Miss C being vulnerable. But I note that Mr C 
was present at all of the meetings, and as co-trustee, he was also party to the advice being 
given by Frenkel Topping. So, his understanding of the recommendation being made was 
just as important as Miss Cs. And if Mr C didnt understand any aspect of the 
recommendation, or if he thought Miss C may have needed more information, I think its 
reasonable to expect him to have made this known to Frenkel Topping. Ultimately, Miss C 
and Mr C didnt have to accept the recommendation if they were unsure about anything, and 
couldve sought clarification before making their decision.
It seems that Miss C and Mr C may not have appreciated that in order to see the sort of 
return they envisaged  6% to 7% a year  they would need to leave the funds invested for 
at least five years. But I dont think Frenkel Topping misled them about this  I think it is clear 
that Frenkel Toppings recommendation was based on Miss C leaving the funds invested for 
a minimum of five years. If Miss C had made it clear she was likely to need to access the 
funds to purchase a property within two to three years I think Frenkel Toppings 
recommendation wouldve been significantly different. This is because the impact of the 
initial advice fee  which was £3,900  and the ongoing servicing and investment fees would 
have a greater impact on the value of the investment in the earlier years. But as Miss C and 
Mr C told Frenkel Topping Miss C wouldnt need to access the money for at least five years, 
I think the investment strategy was suitable for them. It follows that Im not upholding this 
complaint, so I wont be asking Frenkel Topping to do anything to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C as trustee of 
the J Trust to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman