DRN-3617106
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Moneybarn No. 1 Limited reported a payment holiday on her 
credit file.
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs B was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £29,024, with 59 monthly payments of £491.94.  
Mrs B said she requested a payment holiday in 2020 as her finances had been impacted by 
the Covid pandemic. She said that Moneybarn agreed to this. She said that Moneybarn 
contacted her in October 2020 to tell her the payment holiday period had ended. She said 
they told her she would now need to start paying her full contractual monthly amount, plus 
the arrears. She said she couldnt afford this as shed been made redundant in March 2020. 
After considering the options available to her, she decided to voluntary terminate the 
agreement.
Shortly after this, she checked her credit score, and found that her credit record had been 
trashed by Moneybarn. She said she had a payment holiday agreed from April 2020 and 
payment holidays shouldnt be recorded as missed payments but this is what Moneybarn 
had done. She said theyd continued to record a negative status on her credit file and report 
missed payments. She said this was contrary to the rules set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
She was also unhappy that Moneybarn had passed her account to a collections company 
whilst she was still in dispute with them.
Moneybarn said that Mrs B had voluntary terminated the agreement in December 2020 but 
hadnt allowed them to take possession of the car.
Moneybarn said they agreed an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B in October 2019. 
They said Mrs B made reduced payments in line with the plan from October 2019 to March 
2020. They said they reported these as missed payments from December 2019 when she 
reached the equivalent of one monthly payment worth of arrears. They said this was 
reported to the credit file with the digit 1 to indicate one months arrears. They said this 
continued until March 2020.
Moneybarn said that Mrs B didnt make the April 2020 monthly payment.
They said that the monthly payments from May 2020 to October 2020 were not reported to 
the credit file because these were part of the agreed payment holiday. They said the credit 
report was recorded as a 4 to reflect that Mrs B was four months in arrears at the point of
the payment holiday started.
They said Mrs B failed to make the November 2020 and this missed payment was reported 
to the credit file.
Mrs B was unhappy with Moneybarns response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn should have reported the April 2020 payment as a 
payment holiday. But she felt that all other reporting by Moneybarn was accurate.
Mrs B disagreed and said she would only return the car when the adverse data was 
removed from her credit file. 
Because Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs B was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Payment arrangements
Mrs B contacted Moneybarn in October 2019 to ask for support as her salary had changed 
due to a change in her personal circumstances. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that 
firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include a number of things 
including allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period of time. 
Im satisfied that Moneybarn treated Mrs B in line the rules set out by the FCA as they 
considered her income and expenditure and offered her an affordable payment plan.
They confirmed the payment plan arrangements in a letter dated 22 October 2019. 
Importantly this letter advised Mrs B that arrears on the account could have an impact on her 
credit report. The letter included the following statement:
As you won't be clearing your arrears balance, this could have a negative impact on 
your credit score and the vehicle may be at risk.A further payment plan was agreed in January 2020. This was again confirmed in writing, 
and this included the notification Ive quoted above that the credit score could be impacted if 
the arrears balance is not cleared. Moneybarn sent Mrs B a notice of sums in arrears letter 
at this time. She queried why this had been sent and Moneybarn explained that arrears were 
accruing because the payment plan was for an amount lower than the contractual amount. 
So Im satisfied she was made aware that her account was in arrears.
In May 2020, and following the missed payment at the end of April 2020, Mrs B contacted 
Moneybarn to inform them she had been made redundant. Moneybarn allowed a payment 
holiday.
They confirmed the payment holiday in an email sent to Mrs B on 5 May 2020. This 
explained how the holiday would work. Importantly it also confirmed that they would freeze 
the status of your credit file as it was immediately before the payment holiday.
This is in line with the approach set out by the FCA in its guidance for firms where customers 
were experiencing financial difficulty due to circumstances arising out of the Covid 
pandemic. This said that firms should not report a worsening arrears status. 
The payment holiday was extended in June 2020 and again in August 2020. And the same 
explanation was given to Mrs B about the impact on her credit file.
As Mrs Bs circumstances hadnt changed, it was clear that the agreement was no longer 
affordable. So Mrs B chose to voluntary terminate the agreement after the various exit 
options were explained to her.
Im satisfied that Moneybarn provided Mrs B with sufficient information about the impact of 
the payment arrangement and subsequent arrears on her credit file. The correspondence 
Ive referred to above makes clear that arrears would be reported to the credit reference 
agencies.
In addition the conditional sale agreement Mrs B signed contained important information 
about the impact on her credit rating should the account fall into arrears. In a section headed 
What happens if you dont make a payment?, the agreement says Failing to make 
payments on time and having an account in arrears may negatively impact your credit rating 
and make it more difficult to get credit in the future. We will share your payment performance 
with credit reference agencies.
Ive considered the information provided by both parties and Im satisfied that Moneybarn 
has reported accurate information to Mrs Bs credit file during the payment holiday  with 
one exception, see below. The account was already in arrears  from the reduced payments 
Mrs B had been making since October 2019.
When the payment holiday was agreed in May 2020, Moneybarn informed Mrs B that they 
would freeze the reporting of the credit file. And that is what they did. They had marked the 
account in arrears up to March 2020, and this status remained unchanged during the 
payment holiday period.
April 2020
Mrs B missed her due payment in April 2020 and this was recorded as a missed payment on 
the credit file. But Moneybarn then confirmed that Mrs Bs payment holiday started from April 
2020. So that entry should be corrected to show the status of the agreement as at March 
2020.
 All lenders are required to notify accurate information to the credit reference agencies. 
Because Mrs B was unable to clear her arrears it was reasonable for this to be reflected in 
the credit information.
Im also satisfied that its reasonable for Moneybarn to take steps to recover the car following 
Mrs Bs decision to voluntary terminate the agreement.
Putting things right
To put things right Moneybarn should amend the credit report entry for April 2020 to show 
that the payment was not missed, as it was part of the payment holiday. The entry should be 
corrected to show the status of the agreement as at March 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman