DRN-3187460
The complaint
Ms S complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
failed to carry out sufficient due diligence activities when she asked to transfer some pension 
savings to a Small Self-Administered Pension Scheme (SSAS) in September 2014.
What happened
Ms S has been assisted in making her complaint by a firm of solicitors. But, in this decision, 
I will largely refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Ms S herself.
Ms S held pension savings with Sun Life. She also held pension savings with another firm 
that I will call X. 
Ms S says that in early 2014 she got in touch with a firm to seek some advice and support in 
consolidating her two pension arrangements into a new scheme  a SSAS. To facilitate that 
arrangement Ms S completed the paperwork the firm provided to create a new company that 
would employ her, and set up a SSAS to provide her with pension benefits after it received 
the transfers from Sun Life and/or X. Sun Life received a request for the transfer of Ms Ss 
pension savings on 17 September through the Origo Options system (an automated system 
for the transfer of pension savings between authorised providers). It completed the request 
later that month.
Ms S says that during the entire transfer process there was no effective communication from 
Sun Life to her. In particular she says that Sun Life should have warned her that her transfer 
request might be as a result of a scam, and warned her about the risks she was facing. Ms S 
says that those warnings would have resulted in her cancelling the transfer activity. She says 
that the other provider X did refuse her transfer request. So that part of her pension savings 
remained unaffected by this process.
When Ms S first complained to Sun Life it reviewed the checks it had done before 
completing her transfer. At the time of the transfer it had relied on the receiving scheme 
being a member of Origo. But it now accepts that reliance was insufficient and that it should 
have done more. So it asked Ms S for details of what had happened since the transfer so it 
could see whether she had lost out. The information Ms S provided didnt allow Sun Life to 
determine whether it had caused any loss to her so she brought her complaint to us.
Ms Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He noted that Sun Life 
agreed it should have done more in terms of its checks and communication with Ms S at the 
time of the transfer. But he didnt think that further communication with Ms S would have 
resulted in her stopping the transfer. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms S didnt agree with that assessment. Although I am only briefly summarising here what 
she and her representatives have said, I want to reassure Ms S that I have read, and 
carefully considered, all the additional information that has been provided.
Ms Ss representatives say that Sun Life has already agreed that it didnt do enough checks 
before the transfer was completed. They say that Ms Ss clear evidence is that, had she 
received the proper warnings, she would have not made the transfer. They dont think 
sufficient importance has been given to Ms Ss evidence when assessing the complaint.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms S and by Sun Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The Pension Regulators (TPR) scorpion guidance
The scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013 and updated the following year, in 
July 2014. Several bodies including the FSA (the Financial Services Authority which was 
succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA, shortly afterwards) were part of this 
initiative so its a relevant consideration for personal pension providers like Sun Life which 
come under FSA/FCA regulation, rather than TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs 
present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being 
transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and 
pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or 
were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests. The 2014 update replaced many of the 
2013 warnings about pension liberation, with similar warnings about scams.
If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist schemes could use 
which suggested asking the member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters 
about the scheme and for further details about how they became aware of the receiving 
scheme and how it had been described to them. If those enquiries established the member 
had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered 
with the FCA. Where transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider 
delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer leaflet which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about 
pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
In addition to endorsing this guidance, Sun Lifes regulator, the FCA, had since its inception 
set out Principles and Rules for Sun Life to follow  including COBS 2.1.1R (the clients best 
interests rule) which Ms Ss representative has highlighted. So I think it was also appropriate for Sun Life to have regard for this TPR guidance in meeting its existing regulatory 
obligations. In light of this Ill consider what (if any) warning signs Sun Life ought reasonably 
to have noticed in Ms Ss request to transfer to the SSAS.
Status of the receiving scheme
Every SSAS is specific to its members, and consideration will often be given to transfers 
from a members existing pensions when a scheme is first set up. So it may not necessarily 
have been surprising that a transfer request was being received to a scheme Ms S had 
recently established as trustee, for what appeared to be a new employer she had 
incorporated as a director.
At the time, the actions being taken by TPR against suspected pension liberation schemes 
tended to involve larger multi-member schemes operated by unscrupulous trustees which 
were hurriedly set up and admitted members from all over the UK, with no connection to 
each other, over a short space of time. That wasnt strictly the form of arrangement Ms S 
was entering into, which was in fact a decision she entered into to form a pension scheme 
for her own company. It wasnt until a further March 2015 update to the action pack that TPR 
specifically highlighted that the focus of liberation or scam activity had now moved to single-
member schemes.
And the SSAS administrator itself had been in existence for a number of years at the time of 
the transfer. So I dont consider it should have been regarded as a recently established 
operator in the market. And the administrator was a member of the Origo scheme. It does 
seem that Sun Life reasonably drew some comfort from that. I dont think its membership 
relieved Sun Life of its regulatory obligations  but I dont think it gave any cause for 
concerns either.
The transfer request provided Sun Life with little information about the ultimate investments 
Ms S intended. If Sun Life had suspected the investments Ms S was making might be a 
scam there were several options open to it under TPRs guidance. Its important to say here 
that this applies whether or not that suspicion was correct, so Im making no judgement here 
about the status of Ms Ss investments. Part of the problem is that investment scams are 
often outwardly indistinguishable from what might simply be a risky investment proposal that 
could lose all the investors money.
The options Sun Life had were to investigate whether there were grounds to delay or refuse 
to transfer to the SSAS altogether; or and particularly if not, to engage further with Ms S by 
providing risk warnings and check she understood the implications of what she was doing.
Did Sun Life have a basis on which to delay or refuse the transfer?
The rules of Ms Ss personal pension with Sun Life gave her a right to transfer her pension 
plan to any scheme capable (and willing) to accept a recognised transfer under Section 169 
of the Finance Act 2004. The HMRC registration of the new scheme meant it fulfilled those 
criteria. Although it doesnt seem Sun Life made any further enquiries of HMRC here, 
I havent seen anything to make me think additional enquiries would have raised any 
concerns..
A statutory right to transfer to a SSAS would also exist given that the sponsoring employer of 
the SSAS was Ms Ss own company of which she was acting as a director. To ensure that, it 
would have been necessary for Sun Life to inspect the SSAS trust deed and rules  again it 
doesnt seem that was done. But it appears that Ms S was entitled to secure transfer credits 
as a member of that SSAS using her Sun Life personal pension, given she was clearly 
holding office as a director of that employer at the time.I understand why Ms Ss representative might think that the new employer she had set up 
wasnt genuine and therefore this wasnt a valid exercise of her statutory rights. But its likely 
in my view that any attempt by Sun Life to say this to Ms S would have been met by the sort 
of complaint letter from Ms S about it delaying the transfer, that the wider evidence suggests 
customers were being asked to sign in advance. 
Clearly the scheme was validly registered with HMRC, and there would have been nothing to 
suggest at the time that it was being used for pension liberation. The case law subsequently 
established in Hughes v Royal London [2016] EWHC 319 (Ch) indicates that as Ms S 
already had earnings from her main occupation, a lack of further earnings from the 
sponsoring employer, which she was a director of in this case, wouldnt have invalidated her 
statutory right to transfer.
Im not saying that Sun Life should have anticipated the outcome of a court case that hadnt 
yet happened  if it had suspicions at the time, it should have communicated what those 
suspicions were, as Ill explain later below. But I think its important to recognise what its 
now been established the law actually meant for this sort of transfer.
Having considered all of this I think Sun Lifes prospects were limited, for delaying or 
blocking Ms Ss transfer out of a suspicion that the sponsoring employer wasnt genuine - 
and could ultimately have been unsuccessful. But more importantly than this, I dont consider 
I could reasonably expect Sun Life to go to these lengths in the particular circumstances of 
this case given the apparent outcome of similar enquiries with HMRC in the past.
 
In the case of an actual investment scam, it might be expected that engaging further with the 
member about the potential risks they were taking might lead to the member reconsidering 
whether they wanted to transfer in any event  and therefore was a more constructive way 
for Sun Life to proceed in the particular circumstances of this case. So Ive next considered 
the possibility that Ms S might have changed her mind about transferring if Sun Life had got 
directly in touch with her to explain its concerns.
Risk warnings
At a time when the TPR guidance was less prescriptive than it, and other industry codes, 
now are on the degree of contact a transferring scheme should have with the customer, a 
key method of passing on these risk warnings was to issue the scorpion leaflet. Since 
February 2013 TPR had been saying on its website that it would like to see the use of this 
insert in transfer packs for members becoming best practice.
Sun Life seems to have taken the view at the time of the transfer that this wasnt a 
necessary step given that the receiving scheme was a member of Origo. However I do 
acknowledge that Sun Life now appears to accept that approach was incorrect. So I think 
Sun Life should have sent the scorpion leaflet to Ms S, both to ensure that it could 
demonstrate it followed the TPR guidance, and to provide her with the opportunity to 
consider whether to proceed with the transfer and the risks it entailed. I accept its possible 
Ms S wouldnt have read the leaflet had Sun Life provided it. There isnt a requirement in the 
guidance to check she had read and understood the leaflet. So later in this decision I will 
consider whether sending the leaflet to Ms S would have influenced her decision on the 
transfer.
The Action Pack suggested that if Sun Life had any concerns about the transfer it should:Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme 
theyll be transferring to and send them the pension scams booklet available 
at www.pension-scams.com
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help 
you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist, where youve 
been unable to answer them with the information you have available
Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it is a scam, or The Pensions 
Advisory Service (TPAS) to discuss the potential consequences of the 
transfer, including tax repercussions, if any part of the arrangement is 
deemed as unauthorised
If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your 
concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could 
still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps.
As Ive noted earlier Sun Lifes own investigations suggest that it failed to make any direct 
contact with Ms S when it received her transfer request. But I dont think I need to consider 
here whether or not that was a reasonable approach. As I will now go on to explain, Im not 
persuaded that any further contact from Sun Life would have made a difference to Ms Ss 
decision to transfer.
If Sun Life had gone further, would it have made a difference?
The Action Pack does suggest getting in touch with the member if any concerns were 
present but that is the only expectation  it doesnt specify how that contact should be made, 
and certainly not that the contact should be by telephone. This is left to the discretion of the 
provider and although I know some providers have tried engaging over the phone it is not 
without its difficulties, including the risk of it being wrongly perceived as a self-interested 
attempt to retain Ms Ss business. Given that the staff involved in processing payments out 
of the transferring scheme are neither qualified nor authorised to provide financial advice, in 
reality such a conversation would also need to be heavily scripted  and might not end up 
being a lot more effective than a letter. So I couldnt fairly fault Sun Life had it decided that it 
was best to engage with Ms S by letter.
The main risk in Ms Ss transfer was not one of liberation, but the potential for the 
subsequent investment to be either a scam or wholly unsuitable for her. However even if the 
Sun Life had been alerted to the possibility of a scam (when it discovered the nature of the 
proposed investments), that doesnt mean it was straightforward for Sun Life to tell Ms S 
directly that it thought they were unsuitable (or even likely to be unsuitable) for her. It would 
have been forming such a view based on insufficient information about Ms Ss personal 
circumstances  and of course it was not qualified to formally provide such advice. If it had 
attempted to directly caution Ms S against making the investments it wasnt in a position to 
advise what she should invest in, which is a natural question to follow.
Ms S had already taken some significant steps here, not least the setting up of a limited 
company and the taking on of director duties for that company. There had been a lot of 
activity leading up to the transfer request with numerous points where someone less 
committed to changing their pension arrangements could easily have pulled out. Obviously, 
Ms S didnt do so which, to my mind, shows she had more than just a passing interest in the 
investment. And I think it is important to note that, unlike many complaints we are seeing of 
this nature, it was Ms S herself that asked for the SSAS to be set up  she wasnt cold called 
in the first instance.
So in that context, I dont think a statement from her old pension provider about regulated 
financial advice being a good idea, or her being sent the scorpion leaflet, would have prompted Ms S to take independent advice or to pull out of the transfer. I think she would 
only have done so if she had doubts about her transfer and investments and was prepared 
to unwind the steps she had already taken. Taking everything into consideration, including 
listening to a call between Ms S and our investigator, I dont think this was likely.
Im not satisfied that flagging up any of the other messages in the scorpion guidance  for 
example the availability of TPAS to discuss any concerns  would have fundamentally 
altered Ms Ss decision to proceed in this case. Im drawn to the regrettable conclusion that 
Ms S was already satisfied enough with the advice she was getting  whether that was from 
the SSAS administrator or another regulated firm that appeared to have been involved in the 
discussions  to have been willing to make the decisions she made at the time. I cannot 
reasonably say she would have been deterred from going ahead in response to any steps 
Sun Life might have taken to alert her in line with what Ive set out above.
I think at this stage I should also touch on what happened with Ms Ss other transfer request 
to the provider Ive called X. The information I have about that transfer is naturally limited. 
But it appears to have been made around the same time as Ms Ss request to Sun Life. 
Shortly after the transfer from Sun Life completed, X wrote to Ms S to tell her that it would 
not allow the transfer. So Ms S says that suggests Sun Life should have taken a similar 
view.
From the information I have seen I think there are some important differences in the two 
relationships. X told Ms S that the terms of its pension scheme meant that she didnt have a 
statutory right to transfer her pension savings  so any transfer was at the discretion of the 
scheme administrator. And it was on that basis that the transfer was refused. And it seems 
to have been almost a year before X provided Ms S with information about why it was 
refusing her transfer request. It is more than likely that response was informed by the 
evolving regulatory landscape  and based on information that wasnt available to Sun Life 
at the time it made its decision.
Ms S has told us that she appealed against the decision made by X to refuse the transfer. 
And I can see from the letters she received from X that is likely to have been the case. So 
I think that adds further weight to the likelihood that she wouldnt have been persuaded to 
cancel the transfer request had Sun Life sent her the scorpion leaflet, or made further 
contact with her.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Ms S. But Im not persuaded that her 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman