DRN-2758516
The complaint
Mrs M complains that technical issues with TSB Bank plcs systems in April 2018 caused 
problems with a payment she had attempted to make. She is unhappy with the events that 
followed which led to overdraft charges being applied and that a default marker has also 
been placed against her account. 
What happened
On 25 April 2018 Mrs M attempted to make a payment for £4,750 from her TSB current 
account to another account she held in her name with a different bank (Ill refer to as Bank 
B). She intended to buy a new car. A message from TSB said it was experiencing IT issues, 
which meant the payment could not be completed. 
Mrs M says because of this she made the payment via other means.
 
On 6 May 2018, TSB made the payment of £4,750 which Mrs M had requested on 25 April 
2018. This took her TSB account into an overdraft and charges were applied to the amount 
the account was overdrawn by. 
Mrs M contacted TSB on 1 June 2018 and told it she didnt recognise the payment of 
£4,750. Because of this, on 5 June 2018, TSB refunded Mrs Ms account by this amount and 
began to investigate what had happened. Once this payment was credited to Mrs Ms 
account, the account was no longer overdrawn and no other charges were applied at this 
point. 
Following its investigation TSB wrote to Mrs M on 19 November 2018. In summary, it 
explained it had realised the payment of £4,750 shed raised as debiting her account on 
6 May 2018 was made by her on 25 April 2018 and, that it had reached the recipient account 
on this day. This letter asked Mrs M to arrange for this amount to be returned into her TSB 
account. 
Mrs M complained to TSB. She was unhappy with this and that shed incurred charges on 
her account in respect of the payment being taken from her overdraft.  
TSB, having looked into Mrs Ms concerns provided its final response on 22 November 2018. 
It reiterated that the payment Mrs M attempted on 25 April 2018 was debited on 6 May 2018. 
The delay in the payment leaving the account was a bank error following an IT system 
upgrade. Having investigated the matter, TSB informed Mrs M that the payment did reach 
the beneficiary account and that the beneficiary account was in Mrs Ms name with Bank B. 
TSB apologised for the inconvenience caused by the IT issue. It looked to recover the funds 
from Bank B, but they replied to say Mrs M hadnt given authority for the payment to be 
returned. As the payment was made to Mrs M, TSB explained it now needed to reclaim the 
refund provided on 5 June 2018. Its final response letter set out that its payments team 
would be in contact with Mrs M to arrange the reclaim of £4,750. 
However, TSB did recognise there was a negative balance on the account of £120.84. In 
recognition of its error, it said it would credit the account by this amount to bring the account 
back to a zero balance. It apologised that Mrs M had to contact it on several occasions and 
that the outcome of its investigation was not provided sooner. It paid Mrs M £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and a further £50 for related expenses. 
TSB contacted Mrs M on numerous occasions by letter and text message asking for 
repayment. As the money had not been repaid TSB re-debited £4,750 from Mrs Ms account 
on 31 January 2019.
This meant her account was in an unarranged overdraft. TSB sought repayment of the 
overdraft. When no payment was received TSB sent a letter to Mrs M on 19 June 2019. This 
letter said she needed to make an immediate payment to her account to clear the overdraft 
in full. This letter also explained that TSB would share details of the overdraft with credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) and that, if the overdraft were repaid in full after it has reported 
any exceeded overdraft limits, it would not remove the default from Mrs Ms credit file. 
A formal demand was sent on 11 July 2019. It gave Mrs M 12 days to repay the full amount 
owed. If she didnt do so, it would transfer the debt to a debt collection agency. The account 
was subsequently defaulted on 30 July 2019, after receiving no response to its formal 
demand letter.
Unhappy, Mrs M brought the matter to our service in September 2019. One of our 
investigators looked at everything and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it was clear 
from the letters sent to Mrs M in November 2018 that she needed to repay the amount of 
£4,750 to TSB. Our investigator felt that, in the absence of the payment being received it 
was fair for TSB to re-debit her account. When thinking about the charges she thought it was 
fair of TSB to refund the fees that had been incurred throughout the time it investigated. But 
that she didnt think it was unreasonable for fees to be applied again once TSB became 
aware the payment had gone to another of Mrs Ms accounts. Because of this, she didnt 
recommend TSB refund any further charges.
She did note there was some incorrect information within letters sent and that this may have 
caused some confusion, but she was satisfied Mrs M was aware in November 2018 the 
amount needed to be repaid and, so didnt think the incorrect information within some of the 
letters TSB sent changed this. Nor did this mean she could ask TSB to remove the default 
applied. 
Our investigator felt the £150 compensation TSB had previously paid for the trouble and 
upset caused was a reasonable amount. To conclude, she added creditors have a duty to 
share accurate information with credit reference agencies. She explained that a default is not 
removed because a customer has made a payment which clears the balance. She 
recognised what Mrs M had told her the debt collector had said in relation to making the 
payment and the default being removed. While there is no evidence documenting this 
conversation, our investigator said having reviewed the letter sent to Mrs M by the debt 
collector after the balance had been paid, she could see it says her credit file will be updated 
but does not confirm the default would be removed. She didnt think she could say this was 
an error by TSB as the advice Mrs M says she received was given by the debt collector. 
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion. In brief: 
She has asked how a bank can make a duplicate transfer to put her in an unarranged 
overdraft. 
TSB sent numerous letters, calls, texts claiming different amounts.
TSB are at fault entirely which started with its information migration to its new 
system. She doesnt agree with the investigators view in relation to advice Mrs M says a debt 
collector gave her in relation to the marker being removed should the amount be paid 
in full. Mrs M adds that surely the debt collector was appointed by TSB and so was 
acting on its behalf. 
As Mrs M remained dissatisfied, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
I think it important to note that Im aware Mrs M has raised concerns about the service we 
have provided. This has been investigated separately, so I will not be making any comments 
within this decision in relation to any points Mrs M has raised about the service we have 
given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to recognise Mrs Ms strength of feeling about what has happened here 
and that I appreciate there are a number of issues that have been raised. While I may not 
specifically comment on each and every point thats been raised this does not mean I have 
not considered all of the information thats been given to me by both Mrs M and TSB. Simply 
I have commented on the aspects that I feel are key to this complaint. 
I also have to reach my decision on some aspects of this complaint  for example, where 
there is limited information available or where it is one partys view against the other - on the 
balance of probabilities i.e. what I feel is more likely than not to have happened in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
The crux of the complaint before me concerns the delayed payment from Mrs Ms current 
account due to a bank error following TSBs IT systems upgrade and what subsequently 
happened after this.  
Delayed payment
TSB has recognised its IT systems upgrade caused a delay in the payment of £4,750 being 
made. But it has established that the funds were received by Mrs M to another account she 
held in her name with Bank B. 
Because Mrs M received the funds into another account she held, Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable of TSB to seek to reclaim the refund of £4,750 which was credited to her account 
on 5 June 2018. 
I note Mrs M has commented she was unable to see the credit into her account with Bank B 
on 6 May 2018. Having reviewed the statements provided to us for the account with Bank B I 
can see this shows the credit from the TSB account on 25 April 2018 - the same day the 
payment was requested to be made. I appreciate some confusion may have been caused as 
the payment didnt show as having debited the TSB account until 6 May 2018, but I am 
satisfied the payment of £4,750 was received in Mrs Ms account with Bank B. It follows that 
I cant fairly or reasonably say TSB has acted unfairly in looking to recover the refund it paid 
when Mrs M said she didnt recognise the payment. For me to find TSB acted unfairly in 
seeking to recover the money, I would have to reach the finding that Mrs M is entitled to 
twice the payment of £4,750. And this would not be a fair or reasonable outcome on TSB. 
Default I will now turn to the default TSB applied on 30 July 2019. 
The events have been outlined above under the background of this complaint, so I will not 
repeat them again here. Ive seen TSBs letters to Mrs M. On 11 July 2019, it stated that to 
avoid further action she must repay the full amount owed and that if this was not repaid in full 
within 12 days of this letter the account would be transferred to a debt collection agency. It 
also set out what information would be recorded with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) 
and what this would mean. These letters invited Mrs M to contact the bank if she was unable 
to make the payment to discuss the options available. 
I think TSB acted fairly and reasonably when the final demand was issued in July 2019. And 
given the letters referred to above, Im also persuaded TSB acted fairly in allowing Mrs M 
time to pay off the debt owed both prior to re-debiting her account and before transferring the 
account to a debt collection agency.
Again, while I recognise there was a lot of correspondence and that this may have led to 
some confusion (in relation to different overdrawn amounts being referred to and due), when 
considering everything overall, Im persuaded, it was clear Mrs M was required to pay back 
the sum of £4,750 and that this had been made clear from TSBs contact in November 2018. 
Given the above, I cant say TSB has made an error in applying the default following no 
payment in response to its letters. 
Charges 
I agree with the view reached by our investigator about the charges applied. I find TSB has 
acted fairly and reasonably in refunding the fees/charges that had been incurred on the 
account throughout the time it was investigating. However, as its been established the 
payment was received in another of Mrs Ms accounts and I think it was clear Mrs M needed 
to repay the refund given on 5 June 2018, I dont think it was unreasonable for fees to be 
applied again once the amount was re-debited - in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. This means I make no further recommendation in relation to this aspect.  
Customer service 
TSB accepts there was a bank error at the time Mrs M requested the payment on 25 April 
2018 be made following an IT system upgrade and that because of this Mrs M has 
experienced distress and inconvenience. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied TSBs actions to 
put things right were fair and reasonable in this particular case.
 
I am mindful there were some inaccuracies within communication Mrs M received in relation 
to the amounts she owed but, overall, Im persuaded from the communication received it 
was clear to Mrs M that she needed to repay the refund of £4,750 that TSB provided on 5 
June 2018. 
I dont make any further recommendation in relation to this aspect.
Advice of debt collector 
Mrs M has raised that on contacting the debt collector and paying the balance in full 
in September 2020, she was told the default would be removed.  
Ive thought carefully about this point. But even if I were to consider Mrs M was advised by 
the debt collector that the default would be removed once the balance was repaid in full  
this would have been incorrect information. A default wont be removed from an individuals credit file simply because a debt has been repaid in full. As I explained above, TSB has an 
obligation to share accurate information with the CRAs and the reality was that she did 
default on her repayments. Further, when considering the letters TSB sent to Mrs M about 
the payment due, Im satisfied this information was confirmed to Mrs M.
Im also mindful the balance on the account was repaid in full in September 2020 which was 
some time after TSBs final demand letter in July 2019. While I appreciate this situation 
initially arose due to a bank error following TSBs IT systems upgrade, Im persuaded that 
the non-payment of the outstanding balance following TSBs communication left it with no 
option but to take further steps in relation to the debt. It follows that Im not persuaded this 
point changes my conclusions or leads me to find TSB acted incorrectly when it defaulted 
Mrs Ms account.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman