DRN-2540359
The complaint
Mr D complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to him.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. In summary ELL lent Mr D two high cost loans between November 2017 and , both 
loans have been repaid.
When this complaint was looked at by our adjudicator, she didnt think ELL was wrong to 
lend loan 1 but she thought it shouldnt have lent loan 2.
ELL disagreed that it had irresponsibly lent loan 2.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ELL is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr D 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Having looked at all the information available here, I agree with the conclusions reached by 
the adjudicator that ELL wasnt wrong to lend Mr D loan 1. I think ELLs checks went far 
enough and I dont think the checks revealed anything that suggested Mr D would struggle to 
repay over the 12-month term.
For loan 2, ELL carried out detailed checks, including a credit check and verifying Mr Ds 
income and expenses through his bank statements and payslip. On a pounds and pence 
calculation, it appeared that loan 2 was affordable for Mr D, but I think the checks revealed 
concerning information.
The credit check showed that Mr Ds indebtedness had increased substantially between 
loans 1 and 2. For example, Mr Ds outstanding loan balance at the time of loan 2 was over 
£13,000 compared to his balance of around £450 at the time of loan 1. I can also see that at 
the time of loan 2, Mr D had around five active short-term loans. I accept that he was 
consolidating some of his loans with this new loan but effectively, Mr D was taking out credit 
with ELL to repay credit elsewhere and would.
 
I think that should have concerned ELL about the sustainability of this loan and Mr Ds ability 
to repay without it negatively impacting his overall financial circumstances. The fact that Mr 
D repaid both his loans doesnt persuade me that he did so without experiencing adverse 
consequences.
In those circumstances, ELL should have seen that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D 
over the term and so it shouldnt have lent.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D in relation to loan 2, ELL should:
refund all interest and charges applied to loan 2, and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the surplus payments from the date they were 
paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
ELL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file as a result of 
the interest and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ds complaint. Everyday Lending 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman