DRN-3616202
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) declined his application for a loan.
What happened
Mr O complained to Barclays that it declined him for a loan to repay his overdraft.
Barclays said the loan was declined because the budget planner fell short of Mr Os actual 
expenditure when compared to account activity and didnt demonstrate affordability for the 
requested amount.
Mr O was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays was entitled to take the decision to not lend further and didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr O disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr O has experienced and see if Barclays has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr O back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr O is unhappy that Barclays declined his loan application. But ultimately, what credit 
services the bank offers and under what criteria it is willing to lend is a commercial decision. 
And it isnt something for me to get involved with. I cannot make a bank change its systems 
or processes such as how it reaches its decision to lend and to who. That said, while Im not 
looking at Barclays lending criteria per sa, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr O if it was shown that it didnt reasonably assess Mr Os ability to repay what he wished 
to borrow. And indeed, if it was shown that Barclays felt that the lending wasnt affordable, 
Id expect the application for lending to be declined.
And in this case I can see that Barclays thought Mr Os historical account activity didnt 
match the budget planner and that Mr Os monthly expenditure was almost double what he 
declared. Based on this Barclays felt the loan wasnt affordable. 
I also understand that when a customer has unsecured debt of more than £50,000 banks are 
obliged to automatically decline further unsecured lending without review. In Mr Os case his 
application was referred to senior underwriters for review and it was decided to again decline 
the application. 
So overall and having considered everything I cant say that Barclays have done anything 
wrong. It reviewed Mr Os lending application against its lending criteria which suggested 
further credit wasnt affordable and declined his application  a decision I think it was entitled 
to take. 
I understand Mr O is disappointed in not having the loan approved but Barclays is under no 
obligation to provide him with credit  just as Mr O is under no obligation to use Barclays 
banking services.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman