DRN-3935156
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) sent 
confidential information about his credit card account to his ex-wife.
What happened
Mr B has a credit card with Barclaycard. The terms of the account allow Mr B to accrue 
reward points which can be converted to vouchers.
A third party acting on behalf of Barclaycard sent Mr B a voucher for a retailer. But they sent 
this to his old address by mistake, where his ex-wife lives. Mr B was alerted to this by 
another member of the family.
Mr B complained to Barclaycard. He said, in summary, that his ex-wife was using the 
information shed received against him in court. And he asked for £10,000 in compensation.
Barclaycard sent Mr B their final response letter in November 2022. They accepted theyd 
sent the voucher to the wrong address. They reissued the voucher to Mr Bs correct address, 
and offered him £100 in compensation.
Mr B brought his complaint to our Service, and our investigator thought the offer Barclaycard 
had made to resolve it was fair. Mr B didnt agree, so his complaint has now been passed to 
me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer of £100 Barclaycard have already made is fair. I will explain 
why.
Its not clear that we could consider a complaint about reward points alone. But the mistake 
here arose because of Mr Bs relationship with Barclaycard in respect of a credit card. So I 
think we can look at it on that basis.
Ive looked at the letter that was sent to Mr Bs ex-wifes address in error. It was a covering 
letter which explained that a voucher had been included. The letter didnt contain any 
information about the transactions Mr B had made on his credit card account, or any other 
confidential details about his credit card account.
Mr B says the information Barclaycard shared about the voucher would alert his ex-wife to 
how much he had spent on his credit card, which would mean shed ask him to pay more 
maintenance. But hes not provided any evidence of this. And Im not persuaded, from what 
Ive seen, that this mistake is likely to cause Mr B financial detriment in this way.
I do understand that it would have been distressing for Mr B to find out that his rewards 
voucher had been sent to his old address. And Barclaycard have offered £100 to reflect the 
distress he was caused, along with issuing a replacement voucher to him. Considering the 
overall impact this mistake has had on Mr B, Im satisfied £100 is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard did something wrong 
here, but theyve already made a fair offer to compensate Mr B for the mistake.
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman