DRN-3460394
The complaint
Mr T complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) when settling his motor insurance claim valued 
his car below market value. 
Where I refer to UKI, I include engineers and others as I hold UKI responsible for their acts 
or omissions.
What happened
Mr T was involved in a car accident in August 2021, which resulted in his car being deemed
to be beyond economic repair. As the car was beyond economic repair, UKI advised Mr T 
that his claim would be a total loss claim and as such he would be paid the market value for 
his car. The value they placed on Mr Ts car was £1,000. After deducting Mr Ts excess - 
£450, they sent him a cheque for £550.
Having looked for another car, Mr T found similar cars to his being offered for sale in excess 
of £2,000. He complained to UKI.
UKI said theyd valued Mr T s car using the business standard valuation guides. And had 
deducted an amount for the condition of Mr Ts car as they said there was pre accident 
damage. UKI said it was a fair and accurate reflection of the market value of Mr Ts car and 
did not increase the valuation.  
Mr T wasnt happy with UKIs response and referred his complaint to us. He said that hed 
seen cars with similar mileage and condition for the age of his car being sold at much higher 
values. And the car also had a tow bar which he said hadnt been taken into account in the 
valuation.
Our investigator said the valuation had been calculated fairly and reasonably. And the 
addition of a towbar was subjective in assessing the valuation.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T made a claim against his motor insurance policy with UKI. The policy terms say that 
where Mr T's car is damaged as a result of an accident, UKI will either pay for it to be 
repaired or pay a cash sum representing no more than the market value of the car.
After inspection it was deemed Mr Ts car was beyond economical repair. UKI offered Mr T a 
cash sum to represent the market value of it. The policy defines market value as the cost of 
replacing the car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and 
condition at the time of the accident or loss. As the policy doesnt set out how the market 
value is to be determined under such circumstances, I need to consider if the valuation 
figure UKI has provided is fair and reasonable.
Valuing cars isn't an exact science and generally I would find the valuations given in motor
trade guides, rather than adverts, to be the most persuasive. This is because they are based
on research of likely selling prices, using advertised prices and auction prices to work out
what the likely selling prices would be. UKI said when looking at the valuation of Mr Ts car 
they took account of mileage, condition, and also made allowances for non-standard options.
I can see that UKI considered three motor trade guides, using the details as outlined above 
for Mr Ts car, and were given valuations of £1541, £1525 and £1130. As one of the guide 
valuations was considerably lower than the other two UKI discarded this and used the 
average between the two higher valuations - £1,533. The valuation provided by UKI, is in 
line with the range of valuations contained in the guides we use, so I think its fair and 
reasonable and in line with the approach we as a service would take. 
But UKI said that Mr Ts car had pre accident damage and so they deducted £533 from the 
average guide price to reflect this. Leaving a valuation settlement of £1,000. Mr T has a 
policy excess of £450 so once this was deducted, he received a settlement cheque for £550. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr T and UKI have said about the condition of the car, as 
they both have opposing views. Ive also thought about the fact at the time of the accident 
the car was 17 years old so some amount of existing damage would normally be expected 
on a car of that age.
UKI used the settlement value given in the engineers report. I can see this includes pictures 
of the accident damage and damage that was old, meaning present before the accident. I 
can see there was pre-existing damage to both sides of the rear bumper, a cracked lamp, 
and scratches to the wing. The industry fair wear and tear standard details what should be 
considered fair wear and tear and what shouldnt. While Mr T said the condition of his car 
reflected its age and mileage, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
accepting the engineers report that the condition of Mr Ts car wasnt simply wear and tear 
and the old damage had affected the  cars value. I can see that UKI estimated the repair 
cost of the old damage and deducted 50% of this from the average guide valuation. As this 
is what I would have expected I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
determining the valuation of Mr Ts car.
I understand that Mr T is of the view that his car should be valued more highly, due to the
searches hes done. So, I know my decision will be disappointing. But the prices he saw 
dont reflect the value of his type of vehicle, but the retail figure. Retail figures differ from 
valuations for several reasons, profit and room for negotiation being two of them. They 
represent the figure the car is being sold for, not what is actually paid when the sale takes 
place. 
Based on this Im satisfied that UKI has placed a fair value on the car and settled the
claim fairly and in line with the terms of the policy and according to our approach. It follows
that I wont be asking UKI to increase the value it placed on Mr Ts car.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman