DRN-2010483
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs T are unhappy with the outcome of their claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) against Shawbrook Bank Limited for the mis-sale of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs T bought the solar panels from a supplier, G. The transaction was financed by 
Shawbrook and the purchase price was about £10,600. The loan agreement was for 15 
years and the monthly payment was about £113. In total the finance would have cost Mr L 
and Mrs T about £20,000 over its 15-year life, although they settled the loan early in 2019 in 
order to avoid the longer-term high interest costs.
Mr L and Mrs T say that they were mis-sold the solar panels by G. They were told that the 
lifetime income benefit of the panels over a 25-year period, after the costs of the loan, would 
be in the region of £58,000. They also thought that the loan would be self-funding within the 
first three years.
Shawbrook accept that the benefits of the panels were misrepresented by G to Mr L and Mrs 
T. So, it made an offer to settle their claim by working out what the loan would have cost 
over a 15-year period if the panels had been self-funding. Together with interest at our usual 
rate of 8% simple a year, Shawbrook calculated that the amount that theyd overpaid, when 
making the first 6 years instalments and through settling the loan, was about £3,600. So, it 
offered to pay them this sum and for them to keep the panels in order to benefit from future 
electricity generation and Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments.
Mr L and Mrs T rejected the offer. They say that they would never have bought the panels 
had they known that they wouldnt be self-funding. They relied on the salesmans 
representations that theyd be getting significant benefits over the full 25-year life-span of the 
panels. They also say that they werent aware that there would be ongoing maintenance 
costs for the panels and that certain items, like the inverter, would need replacing once or 
twice over that period.
So, Mr L and Mrs T want Shawbrook to rescind the loan agreement, pay them back what 
theyve paid to date, remove the panels and reinstate their roof. They also want any 
commission that Shawbrook paid to G refunded.
Our investigator thought that Shawbrooks offer amounted to fair compensation. Mr L and 
Mrs T didnt agree. So, the matter has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Mrs T will be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator that 
Shawbrooks offer amounts to fair compensation. Ill explain why.
Its clear from the evidence available that there was a mis-sale here. And Shawbrook has 
accepted this. When looking at complaints like this, I must consider what I think is fair and 
reasonable compensation for that misrepresentation. Calculating compensation isnt an 
exact science. And so theres no set method by which Shawbrook has to compensate Mr L 
and Mrs T for the loss theyve suffered.
I appreciate that they would like the panels removed and the purchase and loan effectively 
voided. But I dont think that would be fair in the circumstances of this case. The panels are 
working as intended. And are producing an income in terms of FIT payments, electricity fed 
back into the grid as well as that used by Mr L and Mrs T. Its just that this isnt as much as 
theyd been led to believe by the salesman.
The benefits are clearly not as described by G, although the evidence as to what Mr L and 
Mrs T were actually told, is very limited. Weve been provided with some example papers 
indicating potential returns. But these werent specific to Mr L and Mrs Ts purchase. They 
also indicate that the returns described are estimated.
Mr T and Mrs L say that they werent told that there were other maintenance costs that 
would need to be paid over the lifetime of the system. But I havent seen any evidence that 
this was a question that they asked and were misled about. Mr L and Mrs T appear to have 
been content with the system for the last six years prior to bringing this complaint. And as 
theres apparently nothing wrong with the panels or the installation, I dont think its 
reasonable to now expect that Shawbrook take responsibility for removing them and 
reinstating their roof. 
Ive looked carefully at the offer that Shawbrook has made. This effectively puts Mr L and 
Mrs T in the position of the panels being self-funding over a 15-year period. The loan and the 
panels over that time period will effectively cost them nothing as they will be making 
equivalent savings from the electricity generation and FIT payments. If they have to carry out 
any maintenance, thats something that they will have been responsible for in any event after 
the panels were installed. 
Mr L and Mrs T have said that they dont think that Shawbrook carried out the necessary 
checks to determine if the loan was affordable. Shawbrook says that it did. However, given 
the terms of the offer effectively make the panels self-funding and the loan has been repaid, 
its academic now whether the loan was affordable, as Mr L and Mrs T will not be required to 
pay anything toward it going forward. So, I dont consider that I need to make a finding in 
that regard and the offer in any event compensates them for any failing by Shawbrook if 
there had been one.
I also dont think that Mr L and Mrs T can expect to be compensated for commission paid to 
G on top of the offer already made. Thats because the commission would have been taken 
from the interest that Mr L and Mrs T would have paid to Shawbrook on the loan over its 
term. And quite a large proportion of that paid by them has been waived in making the loan 
self-funding. So, Shawbrook will more than likely be out of pocket for any commission that it 
has already paid to G. And I dont think it would be fair for me to require that it repay 
anything for that to Mr L and Mrs T
Shawbrook has used certain assumptions in calculating its offer. And those dont appear 
unreasonable to me in this case. I know that Mr L and Mrs T say that the assumptions could 
be proved incorrect over the next 9 years. But I also think its important to have finality when 
settling a complaint such as this. And I dont think I should take into account that 
assumptions I consider reasonable now, may at some point, hypothetically, be proved 
wrong. Shawbrook has said that if Mr L and Mrs T would like, it will use the actual FIT payments received to date to re-calculate the offer. And if thats something they want 
Shawbrook to do, they can provide the necessary statements to it. So, I think that the offer 
made by Shawbrook is fair compensation for the loss that Mr L and Mrs T have suffered as a 
result of the representations made to them proving untrue.
Putting things right
Shawbrook have offered to recalculate the loan to provide that the solar panels will be self-
financing over a period of 15 years. It has calculated that Mr L and Mrs T will have overpaid 
about £3,600 as a result. This includes interest at our usual rate of 8% simple a year less 
tax. I think this is fair.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited has made the 
above offer to Mr L and Mrs T which I consider to be fair compensation. I require that 
Shawbrook recalculate the offer to the date of payment, including any further interest that 
has accrued at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date any overpayments were made 
until theyre refunded. I also require that Shawbrook use Mr T and Mrs Ls actual FIT 
payments received to date to calculate the offer if that is something that they want it to do.
HM Revenue and Customs require that Shawbrook take off tax from the interest paid. 
Should Mr L and Mrs T request it, Shawbrook should provide them with a statement detailing 
how much tax has been taken off so that they can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman