DRN-3699011
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the way Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he 
made under his gadget insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M held a gadget insurance policy, underwritten by Assurant. He also held a 
separate contents insurance policy, underwritten by a different insurer, V. Both were 
part of a package of insurance policies Mr M held.
Mr Ms mobile phone was damaged, so he got in touch with Assurant. He provided 
information to support his claim and it was accepted.
Assurant began making arrangements to settle the claim. However, Mr M said the 
phone had already been collected by a company, D, to be repaired.
Assurant said it didnt use D and tended to provide replacement phones rather than 
carrying out repairs. Later, Assurant said it hadnt received the phone.
Mr M became concerned Assurant had collected his phone and something had gone 
wrong. Assurant said it wasnt responsible for the phone going missing. At the time 
Mr Ms phone had been collected, Assurant was yet to accept the claim. So it didnt 
make sense that D could have been collecting the phone for Assurant.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He got in touch with V, who confirmed 
they had also logged a claim for the phone after hearing from Mr M  and they used 
D to collect phones. He found the phone had likely been collected on Vs behalf by D, 
so Assurant wasnt responsible for what had happened to the phone after that.
Mr M accepted that. But he didnt think the way Assurant had handled things was fair.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked Assurant to pay £250 
compensation. He noted Assurant was aware from the outset that Mr M had 
vulnerabilities which made dealing with the matter more difficult, but it hadnt taken 
reasonable steps to support him when the misunderstanding had arisen.
Mr M agreed with this outcome. Assurant didnt. It thought it was being held 
responsible for the mistakes of others.
Its clear to me that Assurant isnt responsible for what happened to Mr Ms phone. 
He inadvertently setup two different claims with different insurers for the same phone, 
around the same time, and that led to the confusion and misunderstanding. I dont 
hold Assurant responsible for that.
Whilst Mr M was in touch with Assurant, he provided information about D and made 
clear he had other information to provide, but his vulnerabilities made it difficult for 
him to do so. Assurant was aware of Mr Ms circumstances throughout. So I think it 
would have been reasonable for it to find other ways of accommodating him and 
taking the right amount of time and care to help him  particularly as the problem he 
was describing was closely related to the claim he had with Assurant.
With one call to Mr M, our investigator was able to establish hed been in touch with 
V. And with a call to them, our investigator established what had gone wrong. I think 
it would have been reasonable for Assurant to have taken similar steps, given Mr Ms 
circumstances. As both policies were part of the same package Mr M had, I dont 
think this would have presented any data protection challenges for Assurant.
Had it done so, its possible Mr M may have been able to retrieve his phone and 
avoid losing out financially. But I dont think it would be fair to make Assurant 
responsible for his loss as it didnt cause the initial problem and wouldnt have been 
responsible for returning his phone in any event.
But if Assurant had taken those steps to support Mr M, it would likely have been able 
to direct him back to V. That would have avoided him considerable distress and 
inconvenience trying to resolve the problem alone.
All things considered, and bearing in mind the particular circumstances of this case, 
Im satisfied it would be fair for Assurant to pay Mr M £250 compensation.
I know Mr M is concerned about the implications of setting up two different claims for 
the same thing. Im satisfied the evidence shows this happened unintentionally. I 
havent anything to suggest he acted improperly.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman