DRN-1758222
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the homecare cover provided by British Gas Insurance Limited. She 
says she replaced a boiler unnecessarily.
What happened
Mrs W was having problems with her boiler. When she made a claim under her British Gas 
homecare cover the engineer said her boiler was too old to be repaired. Mrs W thought the 
quotation to replace her boiler was too expensive. So she asked another business to supply 
a replacement. But when it was being fitted Mrs W was told her old boiler hadnt been 
receiving any gas supply. And that was why it wasnt working. Mrs W had to pay over £2000 
for the new boiler and didnt have heating or hot water for over a week. She doesnt feel the 
£700 compensation paid by British Gas is enough as it was its mistake that caused her to 
purchase a new boiler.
British Gas said it was sorry for the error made when its engineer visited to repair the boiler. 
But it couldnt justify reimbursing the full cost of the replacement. British Gas said itd taken 
into account that Mrs W had been forced to replace her boiler sooner than expected. But due 
to its age it was highly likely to need replacing soon. British Gas believed the boiler was 
around 24 years old. That was well above the average life expectancy of around 10-15 
years. And some of the parts in the old boiler were now obsolete so it wouldnt have been 
possible to continue repairing the boiler. So British Gas had offered £700 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with British Gas response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see the attempted repairs hadnt gone as either 
Mrs W or British Gas wouldve liked. And he agreed British Gas had made a mistake. But he 
didnt think itd done so on purpose so it could convince Mrs W to purchase a new boiler.
He could see the boiler was very old. And he felt it was likely it would need replacing in the 
near future anyway. The manufacturer had stopped making parts for it. So further repairs 
might not be possible. And he didnt think it was appropriate for British Gas to fully reimburse 
Mrs W for the cost of the replacement boiler. So he wouldnt ask British Gas to do anything 
else.
Mrs W didnt agree. She felt the fault was solely with British Gas. So it should cover at least 
50% of the cost for the replacement boiler. And shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mrs W feels the British Gas engineer didnt do his job properly. If hed noticed that 
gas wasnt going to the boiler it mightve been fixed quickly and without needing to buy a 
replacement. And it took quite a lot of effort to get the gas reconnected so that Mrs W was 
able to obtain hot water and heating. So I can appreciate how stressful this mustve been. 
And Ive looked very carefully at everything thats happened to see if British Gas needs to do 
anything more to put things right.
Ive looked at the homecare insurance document. It provides a boiler replacement if it cant 
be repaired  but only if it is less than 7 years old (or 10 years if it was installed by British 
Gas and covered by the policy since installation). And that confirms the typical lifespan of a 
boiler before it is likely to need replacement.
British Gas has accepted its engineer didnt carry out the proper checks. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it acted deliberately to convince Mrs W to purchase a new boiler instead. 
The boiler was very old. And it was clear replacement parts were becoming hard to find. 
British Gas did make a mistake when it failed to notice the gas supply had been 
disconnected. And Mrs W purchased a new boiler because of the mistake. So Ive 
considered what British Gas should do to put things right. 
Mrs W moved into the property in 2014. So shed only used the boiler for about five years. 
But I understand it was around twenty-four years old. And most boilers have an expected life 
span of around 10-15 years depending upon how theyve been used and maintained. So its 
likely the boiler wouldve needed repairing or replacing in the near future. And its also likely 
any repairs might need parts that were no longer available. So I have to take this into 
account when considering what British Gas should do to put Mrs W back in the position 
shed have been in if the mistake hadnt occurred.
I know Mrs W feels the engineer was quick to write off the boiler. And I do appreciate how 
upsetting this has been for her. She was without heating or hot water while the gas supply 
was reconnected and the replacement boiler was installed. But based on its age I think its 
very likely she wouldve needed to replace the boiler within the next year or so. And she now 
has the benefit of a new boiler which should be more efficient and trouble-free than her old 
boiler.
I realise Mrs W will be disappointed with this outcome. And I do sympathise with the distress 
shes been put through. But based on what Ive seen I think British Gas has made a 
reasonable offer of £700 for Mrs Ws distress and inconvenience. It will cover the cost of her 
additional expenses as well as contributing towards the cost of the new boiler. I understand 
Mrs W has already received the cheque from British Gas. And I think thats a fair outcome. 
So I wont be asking British Gas to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman