DRN-2713584
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has stopped paying out his claim
under his Group Income Protection policy with his employer.
What happened
In 2006, Mr S experienced symptoms of a long-term medical condition, but it wasnt 
confirmed at this time. In April 2016, following a confirmed diagnosis, Mr S became more 
seriously unwell due to his condition and as a result of this was signed off work. He put in a 
claim under his income protection policy and after the deferred period, it began to pay out.
In February 2018, it was arranged for Mr S to have a Work Focussed Assessment with a 
Chartered Psychologist, which included testing some of Mr Ss abilities. Following this, Aviva 
arranged for Mr S to be assessed by a consultant in Occupational Medicine (the 
consultant), to determine if he was able to return to work. In November 2018, this consultant 
reported that she felt Mr S was fit to recommence work on reduced hours, working up to full 
time hours.
As it was determined Mr S was medically fit to return to work, Aviva informed his employer it 
would no longer pay Mr S full benefit under the policy after February 2019. Aviva provided 
Mr S with two options moving forward. He was able to return to his role part-time and it 
would pay him a proportionate benefit claim, so topping up the part-time salary hed be 
earning with benefit to mean he was still receiving the equivalent of his full-time salary. Or he 
was able to accept a lump sum settlement from Aviva, ending his cover under the policy. 
Avivas felt this lump-sum payment would allow Mr S and his employer to consider his 
ongoing employment and allow him to pursue alternative job opportunities elsewhere if this 
was more appropriate.
Mr S disagreed with Avivas decision to terminate his claim and appealed the decision. Aviva 
declined the appeal as it felt it had fairly assessed Mr Ss ability to work. Mr S returned to 
work on reduced hours in 2020, in a lesser role. Aviva said that it wouldnt consider this as 
part of the claim that began in 2016 and top up Mr Ss salary, as hed not been eligible to 
claim on his policy for over 12 months by the time he started working again, so these claims 
couldnt be linked. But in any event, as he was returning in a lesser role, rather than to his 
own occupation, it wouldnt have accepted this anyway. It said that as it considered Mr S 
was medically fit to return to his own role, it wouldnt be acceptable for him to return to a 
lesser role and receive proportionate benefit.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint as 
she was satisfied Aviva had fairly relied on the findings of the consultant. Mr S disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. I set out I was intending to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
I explained that Aviva was only required to assess Mr S under the policy terms, so I would 
be looking at these terms and whether Aviva had fairly applied these to the case.
Mr Ss policy covered him up to the age of 65 and stated that definition A of incapacity 
related to his cover. As such, the relevant definitions in relation to Mr Ss claim were:
Incapacity
The member's Inability to perform, on a full or part time basis, the duties of his or 
her normal occupation, as a result of their Illness or Injury.
And in relation to this definition:
Duties
The material and substantial duties of the member's normal occupation which cannot 
reasonably be omitted or modified.
I set out that Mr Ss issues with his employer and its view on whether he could return to work 
 and the issue of his role not being available part-time  were separate matters to this case. 
I also explained that, as above, Aviva was required to look at Mr Ss duties, not the hours he 
worked in reality and whether he could do these.
I looked at Mr Ss Work Focussed Assessment in February 2018 and said that the key 
summary of this report identified he had strengths in the average range for verbal 
comprehension; non-verbal reasoning; and learning and recalling spoken information. But 
weaknesses in his working memory and his processing speed, with both of these being in 
the low average range. Mr S also self-reported issues with monitoring tasks, planning and 
organising and being flexible  which seemed to align with his test results, as these activities 
would be impacted by working memory and the ability to process information. The 
psychologist completing this report noted that she felt it could be assumed that Mr Ss role 
required someone to have at least average cognitive abilities in all areas  which the testing 
showed he didnt have.
When Mr S was reviewed by a consultant in November 2018 she summarised his job in one 
line. I accepted the consultant did have access to his full job specification  and the 12 key 
duties of his role, but I said I understood why Mr S had concerns about the summary. I listed 
the key duties of Mr Ss role in my provisional decision.
Reading Mr Ss contract, I considered it was clear that he was expected to perform every 
part of his duties at a very high level  which was reflected by his salary. And I noted that his 
job involved the management of other individuals, alongside carrying out his own 
responsibilities, which wasnt mentioned in the consultants report. I appreciated that Aviva 
relied on the consultants report that Mr S could carry out the duties of his role, but I couldnt 
agree this was supported by any other medical reports  and I found it unclear how she 
reached this conclusion when looking at Mr Ss symptoms and the duties of his role as a 
whole. I quoted some additional duties and obligations from Mr Ss contract alongside the 
Key Individual Attributes his contract listed for the role. 
I accepted that Aviva was required to assess Mr S under the policy terms, which looked at 
the duties of his role, but I considered the way hes expected to carry out these duties was 
very key in this case. I acknowledged this policy didnt look to cover Mr Ss job with his 
specific employer, but I hadnt seen anything from Aviva which suggested that Mr S could 
carry out this role elsewhere, or that the expectation would be materially different. I noted 
that all parties accepted Mr S has a senior job role with high level responsibilities  which is 
why the attributes for his role were also high level. Factoring these in, I concluded that it was 
not only expected of Mr S that he would do all the duties of his role, but to a very high standard, within all deadlines set and in a structured and organised way  and the medical 
evidence I had seen didnt suggest he could do this.
I referenced a report from Mr Ss specialist from 2016 and how this noted a decline in Mr Ss 
cognitive abilities at this time and that Mr S was probably unlikely to have a full recovery. 
And that this same specialist had been treating Mr S for thirteen years by 2019 and had said, 
in response to Avivas outcome on this claim, that Mr S was highly unlikely to be able to 
return to work. In the same respect, Mr Ss other specialist doctor wrote in April 2019 that 
some of Mr Ss testing showed results in the low average range. And other test results were 
further below this range. In her letter of 7 May 2019, she said that while Mr S had some 
intact skills, his abilities would be hindered by symptoms of his condition making it difficult to 
apply his intact skills.
I referenced that the consultant had picked up on Mr Ss confidence in his ability to do his 
role. And I accepted that after a long-period of time away from work, this would be a factor. 
But I didnt agree with her conclusion that it wasnt possible to determine if Mr Ss problems 
were due to confidence or his illness, as I was satisfied his specialists had concluded his 
illness did have an impact of his abilities. I was also satisfied that Mr Ss confidence was 
linked to the difficulties his symptoms caused, as his symptoms were preventing him 
functioning in the way needed to do his role.
Combining Mr Ss self-reported daily challenges and his test results, I didnt agree that 
Mr Ss lack of confidence simply related to anxiety or his concern about a return to work. But 
instead, at least in part, related to genuine concern around his ability to do his role  
because of his condition and how itd impacted him, as supported by medical testing. So 
while I accepted Mr S wouldnt be covered if the predominant factors preventing him return 
to work were confidence issues, I didnt accept that that was the case here.
In relation to the terms of Mr Ss policy, I reiterated that he was insured for his own 
occupation. And so while I accepted that it seemed he did have the ability to return to work in 
some capacity, this wasnt the test that applied to him under his cover. 
I set out that Mr S had since returned to work for a few hours a week in a more junior/limited 
role with support. But despite this  and the assumed confidence increase this shouldve 
given him  hed not been able to demonstrate the ability required to carry out to his own 
occupation, even on a part-time basis. This was despite him not having received a payment 
from the policy in two years and him being on a much-reduced salary. I considered this 
sustained inability to return to his previous role added some weight to Mr Ss testimony that 
he was unable to carry out its duties due to illness.
I concluded that Mr Ss medical specialists had raised concerns about his ability to return to 
work in his particular role. I accepted Avivas point that no one has said this would be 
impossible. But said it seemed each doctor had concerns and that their letters suggested 
that Mr S could do some, but not all of his role. I referenced a further example from a doctor 
Mr S had seen in January 2020 who considered he would not be able to perform an 
effective managers role. And said that he shouldnt work for extended periods on tasks 
that require detailed concentration or screen-based work  which it seemed both parties 
accepted was a large part of his role 
Based on the evidence available, I couldnt see how Mr S could do the 12 material duties of 
his role. Ultimately, I considered this case came down to the level of Mr Ss role and the type 
of policy his employer had taken out. From reading Mr Ss contract and job role, I accepted 
that it did seem someone performing the material duties of the role would need at least 
average abilities. And the testing hed undertaken highlighted that his abilities in some areas 
were below this, due to his medical condition. I didnt consider the report by the Occupational Medicine consultant did fully appreciate the level of function required by Mr S in his own 
occupation. Or that it accurately depicted the impact Mr Ss illness had on his ability to do his 
role  considering what the other medical professionals have said.
As Mr Ss schedule only listed incapacity definition A as being applicable to his cover and 
this is an own occupation policy  and so required Mr S to be tested against the material 
and substantial duties of the member's normal occupation  I didnt agree Aviva was correct 
to stop making him claim payments in February 2019, as I said he still met the required 
incapacity definition at that time.
To put things right I said I intended for Aviva to reinstate the claim and continue to pay 
benefits as long as Mr S remained eligible. I added 8% interest on payments that had been 
due and said that Aviva could reduce this benefit by any salary Mr S had received, as the 
benefit was intended to act in lieu of his salary. I referenced that fair compensation in this 
case was likely to be more than our award limit, so said I would be recommending Aviva pay 
this.
Mr S responded and accepted the provisional decision with no additional comments or 
information provided. Aviva didnt accept the provisional decision. 
Aviva said it didnt have any further information to provide. It noted that the doctor Mr S had 
seen in January 2020 hadnt been provided with the consultants report, only Mr Ss 
specialists. And it referenced a letter it sent to Mr Ss representatives dated 2 July 2019, 
which we already held, that outlined its position on the case. It said that while it didnt agree 
with the outcome, it would not look to impose the award limit in this particular case.
So the complaint has now been returned to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ss case file and re-visited Avivas letter of 2 July 2019, in light of its 
additional comments. However, these havent changed my outcome.
I considered the content of the July 2019 letter in full when reaching my provisional decision. 
I understand the arguments put forward in this letter, but I dont agree with them. I consider 
the specialist medical opinions and the overall medical evidence in this case do support that 
Mr S met the required definition of incapacity, as the impairments caused by his medical 
condition meant he was unable to perform the duties of his normal occupation at that time.
I do accept it doesnt seem the doctor Mr S saw in January 2020 was provided with the 
consultants report when she made the comments about Mr Ss ability to do his role. But I 
explained the concerns I had around the consultants report in my provisional decision. So 
as I considered more weight could be placed on the specialist reports, while I accept the 
doctor from January 2020 couldve reached a more rounded conclusion having access to all 
the reports, I think its more likely she still wouldve reached the same conclusion. She had 
access to the reports I consider carry the most weight in this case, so this doesnt change 
my outcome.
As my review hasnt changed my decision, it follows I dont agree Aviva shouldve stopped 
benefit under the policy. While I have reconsidered the January 2020 medical evidence with 
the context Aviva has set out  and reconsidered the case as a whole, I am still upholding it.Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be calculated as follows:
Aviva should reinstate the claim from the time it was stopped, pay any outstanding 
policy benefit and resume paying this claim to the policyholder for as long as Mr S 
remains eligible to receive such benefits under the terms and conditions of the policy; 
and
add interest to those backdated benefit payments from the date each one was due 
until the date of settlement, using the simple rate of 8% per year
Aviva is able to reduce the benefit it pays for this claim by any salary payments Mr S 
has and continues to receive since 1 March 2019, as the policy is intended to act in 
lieu of his salary, not in addition to it
Mr S should note that the benefit will be paid to his employer, who is the policyholder. Not to 
him directly.
My decision is that Aviva should pay the policyholder the amount produced by that 
calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000, plus the interest payment as set out above.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more than £160,000, I 
recommend that Aviva pays the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Aviva doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance above our award limit. Mr S may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
 Im upholding this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited and direct it to put 
things right in the way outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman