DRN-1986905
The complaint
Mrs B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited avoided (treated it as if it never 
existed) her motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. Heres what I said.
Mrs B took out a motorbike insurance policy with MCE through an online price comparison 
site. When her motorbike was stolen, she tried to claim on her policy.
MCE declined her claim and avoided her policy. MCE said this was because Mrs B had 
given incorrect information when she bought the policy, about how many years No Claims 
Bonus (NCB) she had. MCE considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid her policy and refuse her claim.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. He agreed that there had been a 
qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate or reckless  rather, it 
was careless. So, he thought MCE should consider Mrs Bs claim. And if it decided to settle 
it, they should do so proportionately.
MCE didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation  as described by CIDRA. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, and the insurer can show it wouldve at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it wont have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, and the insurer wouldve charged a 
higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to consider 
the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.
MCE has shown that the question Mrs B was asked at the time of sale was How many 
years motorcycle NCB*. Next to this there was a question mark, and when hovering the 
cursor over the question mark the following text appeared: No claims discount[.] Every year 
you hold a policy in your own name without making a claim, you build up a no claims 
discount which saves you money. This proof should be a renewal notice from your previous 
Insurance Company, or a letter on headed paper from the Insurance Company. And Mrs B 
needed to select the number of years she had from a dropdown menu.
MCE has shown that Mrs B selected 1 here, but Mrs B had never had another motorbike 
policy before, so she didnt have any NCB. When MCE told Mrs B she gave incorrect 
information, she said she didnt know what it meant, and that she mustve done it by 
accident. On another call she said she didnt know what it meant, but thought it was 
something to do with the motorbike. Shes also explained that she has difficulty reading as 
shes dyslexic.
I think the question MCE asked was clear. If Mrs B didnt know what NCB meant, she was 
able to hover the cursor over the question mark to see the definition of it. I accept that Mrs B 
has difficulty reading. But she couldve phoned MCE about anything she didnt understand 
before going ahead with the application  I think this wouldve been reasonable in her 
circumstances. So, I think she failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, when she said she had one year NCB.
MCE has given evidence which shows that if Mrs B hadnt made this misrepresentation, it 
wouldve at least charged her a higher premium. This means Im satisfied Mrs Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
But I dont think MCE has shown that the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. MCE 
has said that it was Mrs Bs responsibility to make sure the information she gave was 
correct. And if she didnt understand the questions asked, she couldve phoned MCE. MCE 
also said Mrs B didnt care whether the information provided was correct as she continued to 
purchase the policy without knowing what she was entering into.
For Mrs B to have made a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation, MCE needs to show that 
Mrs B knew (or didnt care) that the information she gave was untrue or misleading, and that 
Mrs B knew (or didnt care) that the information was relevant to MCE. I dont think MCE has 
shown that.
MCEs argument that Mrs B failed to take reasonable care is relevant to whether or not there 
was a qualifying misrepresentation. And I agree that there was. So, the only argument MCE 
has made about the misrepresentation having been reckless or deliberate is that Mrs B 
didnt care whether the information provided was correct as she continued to purchase the 
policy without knowing what she was entering into. But I dont think this means that Mrs B 
knew (or didnt care) the information was untrue or misleading, or that she knew (or didnt 
care) that the information was relevant to MCE.
Mrs B said she didnt understand the question about NCB. And I accept she has difficulty 
reading so I dont doubt what shes said about this. While I think this means she didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she didnt ask for help, I dont think 
this means the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. As Mrs B didnt understand the question, I dont think she knew the information she was 
giving was untrue or misleading. I also dont think Mrs B didnt care whether the information 
was untrue or misleading as she thought it was something to do with the motorbike. So, I 
think the misrepresentation was careless.
Taking everything into account, I dont think MCE was entitled to avoid Mrs Bs policy based 
on the misrepresentation about NCB. MCE has shown that it wouldve applied a higher 
premium if Mrs B wouldnt have made a misrepresentation about NCB. So, as I think the 
misrepresentation was careless, CIDRA doesnt allow MCE to simply avoid the policy in this 
situation. Instead, MCE will need to consider Mrs Bs claim. And if it decided to settle it, it 
should do so proportionately.
Based on the information provided by MCE, Mrs B received a 27% discount by declaring she 
had one year NCB. So, it looks like Mrs B paid 73% of the premium she shouldve paid. That 
means that if MCE accepts her claim, MCE should pay 73% of the claim value. MCE should 
also pay 8% simple interest on any settlement from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement, as Mrs B has been out of pocket as a result of MCEs actions.
MCE also needs to remove any record of the avoidance from any internal and external 
databases. It should also confirm this to Mrs B in writing. She can provide this letter to her 
current insurer to ask it to confirm if this had an impact on her premium. If she wouldve been 
charged a lower premium, its for her current insurer to refund this, not MCE. But this will 
cause Mrs B some inconvenience, so I think MCE should pay her compensation for this. I 
think £150 is fair in the circumstances.
If MCE accepts Mrs Bs claim, it should also compensate her for the loss of use of her 
motorbike for wrongly declining her claim. Mrs B has shown us she bought another 
motorbike a month after the previous one was stolen. Shes said that before this, shed either 
get rides from family or friends, or shed use a taxi. For example, shed go shopping once or 
twice a week. Mrs Bs policy didnt cover commuting, so I dont think MCE needs to pay for 
the loss of use of her travelling to and from work.
Based on everything Mrs B has said, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable for MCE to 
compensate Mrs B for loss of use based on a daily rate. Overall, I think £100 is fair 
compensation for loss of use in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B received my provisional decision but didnt have anything further to add. MCE 
responded in more detail. In summary, it said that I hadnt considered its comments fully. 
MCE referred to an earlier email sent to us where it said  amongst other things  that Mrs B 
acted recklessly by continuing to purchase a policy after providing information that she was 
unsure was correct.
MCE also referred to our findings on another complaint at our service which it thought similar 
to this one, and where MCE had considered the misrepresentation to be reckless. MCE said 
Mrs B was aware she would likely experience difficulty in reading and understanding the 
questions asked. So, she acted recklessly by choosing to purchase the policy online, and 
choosing not to contact the insurer for advice. And by continuing to purchase the policy 
without regard for the information provided, she didnt care whether she was providing 
incorrect information. So, MCE still thinks Mrs B made a misrepresentation that was 
reckless.
MCE also said it sent Mrs B the policy documents on the day of the purchase, and she had a 
duty to view them within the 14 day cooling off period and contact MCE if any of the details 
were incorrect. What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything MCE has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
these dont change my findings. We consider complaints based on their individual 
circumstances, and thats what Ive done here.
I think most of MCEs arguments are relevant to the question about whether or not Mrs B 
took reasonable care when answering MCEs questions when she bought the policy  not 
whether or not she acted recklessly. And I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care when she 
answered MCEs questions at the point of sale, for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision. So, I think Mrs B made a qualifying misrepresentation.
But I still dont think MCE has shown that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
To do that, MCE needs to show that Mrs B knew (or didnt care) that the information she 
gave was untrue or misleading, and that Mrs B knew (or didnt care) that the information was 
relevant to MCE. 
MCE says that Mrs B continued to purchase the policy without regard for the information 
provided, she didnt care whether she was providing incorrect information. But I dont think 
MCE has given us persuasive evidence to show that. Overall, I still dont think MCE has 
shown that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision.
Ive also thought about what MCE has said about the policy documents it sent to Mrs B after 
she bought the policy. But I think the key material evidence here is what questions Mrs B 
was asked at the point of sale, and how she answered those questions. So, this doesnt 
change my findings either.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. To put things right MCE Insurance Company Limited should take the following 
action.
Consider Mrs Bs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If 
MCE decides to settle the claim, it should do so proportionately based on the 
premium Mrs B wouldve been charged had the misrepresentation not happened. It 
should also pay 8% simple interest* from the date of loss until the date of settlement.
If MCE decides to settle the claim, it should also pay Mrs B £100 in compensation for 
her loss of use.
MCE should also remove any record of the avoidance from all internal and external 
databases. It should confirm this to Mrs B in writing. MCE should also pay Mrs B 
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused for this.
 
*If MCE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mrs B, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B 
a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.Renja Anderson
Ombudsman