DRN-3050831
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) closed its account and terminated a Bounce Back Loan facility.
Ts director, Mr D, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
T held a business current account with NatWest. It successfully applied to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan in May 2020, drawing down a loan of £50,000 on 11 May.
NatWest wrote to T on 26 May 2020 to say that the bank had decided to withdraw its 
services following a review of its banking arrangements and would be closing Ts account in 
60 days. The bank also terminated the Bounce Back Loan and reversed the £50,000 funds 
that were still in Ts account.
Mr D complained to NatWest about its actions. The bank maintained its decision, saying that 
the account had been closed in line with its terms and conditions and that it couldnt discuss 
its rationale in any more detail. It said the Bounce Back Loan had been set up in error and 
shouldnt have been granted, so was terminated and recovered accordingly. The bank 
apologised for any confusion caused and offered T compensation of £250. 
Mr D referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt 
think NatWest needed to do anything more saying, in summary, that:
NatWest had been entitled to close Ts account and had done so in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. And while it was understandable that Mr D 
wanted to know the banks reason, it wasnt required to disclose this.
Had things gone as they should have, NatWest wouldnt have provided the Bounce 
Back Loan to T in the first place. So it was right that the bank recalled it, which was 
allowed for under the terms and conditions.
She couldnt see that NatWests actions had prevented T from arranging alternative 
facilities elsewhere and noted that the company had been able to obtain a Bounce 
Back Loan with a different lender in March 2021. 
T had been caused some inconvenience as a result of NatWests error in approving 
the loan initially, before recalling it. But she thought the £250 that the bank had 
already offered was fair compensation for this.
Mr D accepted that the bank could close an account without giving a reason, but he didnt 
think it was fair to do so in the unprecedented circumstances of the pandemic when it was 
very difficult to make alternative arrangements. And he didnt think it was fair for NatWest to 
have withdrawn the Bounce Back Loan as he said T was eligible for it  evidenced by the 
fact that the company had managed to obtain one elsewhere in the end. 
As Mr D didnt accept our investigators view, Ts complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the terms and conditions of Ts account, NatWest was entitled to close the account at 
any time by giving two months notice. Generally speaking, such decisions are a matter of 
the banks commercial discretion. Ive not seen anything that leads me to think NatWests 
decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances here. It wasnt required to disclose 
the reasons for its decision to T, and I cant fairly require that it do so now. And as I can see 
that the bank gave T the requisite 60 days notice, I dont think it did anything wrong in how it 
closed the account.
Mr D says that it was difficult to arrange a new account elsewhere for T, given the impact of 
the pandemic on what banks were offering at the time. I recognise that the circumstances of 
the time meant that there were fewer options when it came to arranging alternative banking 
facilities  as some providers werent accepting applications from new customers at all. But I 
dont think that means NatWest ought to have done anything differently. I still think that the 
two months provided, in line with the terms and conditions, was reasonable. And I can see 
that T was able to successfully an obtain an account elsewhere.
With regard to the Bounce Back Loan, NatWest has already accepted that it shouldnt have 
approved Ts application initially. As the loan was given in error, the bank had to take steps 
to recover it. The terms and conditions of the loan allowed for its termination in certain 
circumstances. As T should not have received it in the first place, I think it was reasonable 
for NatWest to recall it.
I know Mr D doesnt think this was right, as he believes that T was eligible  evidenced by 
obtaining a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere sometime later. But in addition to the eligibility 
requirements, lenders were entitled  and expected  to carry out certain checks, including 
anti-money laundering, Know Your Customer and fraud checks. NatWest has evidenced the 
basis on which Ts application ought to have been declined initially, having failed these 
checks. The fact that T obtained a loan elsewhere doesnt render NatWests decision wrong 
or unreasonable. So I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in terminating the Bounce 
Back Loan facility and recalling the funds.
Clearly though, this put T to some inconvenience. It affected Mr Ds plans and he had to 
rethink things accordingly. And the application itself had been a waste of time and effort. 
Things were, thankfully, put right fairly swiftly  the loan was recalled in a fortnight, with none 
of the funds having been utilised. Ive not seen that T suffered any financial losses as a 
result of the banks error here or that it was down to anything done by NatWest that T had 
difficulty obtaining a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. As NatWest was not willing to lend to T, 
the company was always going to have to look elsewhere for a Bounce Back Loan  and 
would therefore have always faced the same difficulties. But its right that T is compensated 
for the inconvenience it was caused by the banks error in paying out the loan incorrectly. To 
that end, I think the £250 that NatWest has already offered is fair  so Im not requiring the 
bank to do anything further.
My final decisionNational Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £250 to T, if it hasnt done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman