DRN-2431497
The complaint
Mr D complains about  charges at the end of his Hire Purchase Agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services (UK) Limited (MBFS) .He feels these are unfair and would like them 
reduced.
What happened
Mr D say he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS in April 2018. He says at the 
end of the agreement MBFS charged for damage to the car totalling £3,085. He says two of 
the charges (a missing V5 and scratches on the rear bumper) were later removed as these 
didnt appear on the inspection form.
Mr D says he doesnt dispute the rest of the charges except for a charge of £2,300 for a 
replacement panel which he feels is excessive. Mr D says  when the car was appraised, he 
was advised that the panel was scratched and dented , a minor issue that could be repaired. 
He says he understood he would only be charged a few hundred pounds  for repair work not 
over £2,000 for a replacement panel. .He thinks this is excessive as he feels he could have 
had the panel repaired much more cheaply himself.
MBFS said it considered if it could reduce the charge down to a repair rather than replace 
cost. However, from the image on the inspection report carried out after the vehicle was 
collected it was evident the damage was more than a scratch. It felt the charge to replace 
the panel was fair
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded that :-
There was  no dispute that MBFS charged Mr D for damage at the end of his Hire 
Purchase Agreement.  Two of the charges were dropped as they didnt appear on the 
inspection report. Mr D seemed to agree with the rest of the charges ,with the 
exception of the £2,300 to replace a panel. So, my provisional decision focussed on 
the £2,300 charge in dispute.
The main issue for me to decide was  whether it was fair for Mr D to be charged 
£2,300 for the panel replacement .And whether it was fair to expect MBFS to reduce 
its overall charge based on the sale price achieved for the car  at auction.
In terms of the charge made for damage I l looked at the contract Mr D signed. That 
stated that customers were responsible for maintaining the car according to the 
vehicle standards. I looked at these standards which I understood  were sent to Mr D 
as part of his contract. The contract also stated  that MBFS was entitled to charge for 
damage over and above fair wear and tear. Finally, that it can charge for actual 
repairs or for estimated repairs if it chooses not to make repairs.
Mr D would have been aware that he was liable for damage over and above fair wear 
and tear at the end of his agreement.
Mr D told us when he handed the car over, he was told the  damage was minimal. I 
couldnt  be sure what Mr D was told  at the time. As MBFS agreed the appraisal 
form stated the wing needed painting I could understand why Mr D felt the repair cost 
would be less than he was later charged for.  But the appraisal form  also stated that 
charges would be confirmed later.
The photos provided showed  a large dent present along with a large scuff and paint 
damage. Based on this evidence I felt it was  reasonable for MBFS to charge to 
replace the panel.
I wasnt sure if Mr D was given the opportunity to make good any repairs himself as I 
didnt have any information regarding the end of Mr Ds contract. However, given the 
contract stated he would be liable for any damage. And given Mr D  accepted there 
was some damage I was surprised he didnt  get the car looked at and any work 
done himself prior to handing it back.
Mr Ds  quote for repair work from a garage was based on photos sent to the garage 
not on an actual inspection of the car. I couldnt  be sure that had he arranged repairs 
himself that these would have been satisfactory .Or that they would necessarily have 
been cheaper .
I felt it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr D for the cost of replacing the panel.
In terms of the sale price achieved at auction the contract Mr D signed made it clear 
that  MBFS might chose not to make good any repairs. And stated that  estimates for 
work needed are to compensate for any loss when cars are sold on. MBFS has 
explained it usually sells its cars back to  Mercedes-Benz UK. Mercedes-Benz UK 
gave a buy back price of £10,550 but then wouldnt go ahead with the purchase due 
to the damage. 
MBFS achieved a sale price at auction of £8,700 so the actual loss to MBFS was 
£1850.
I could understand the logic of saying Mr Ds charges should be capped at £1850 . 
But I didnt agree that was appropriate. It was a business decision for MBFS to take 
as to whether it sold or repaired the car. It couldnt be sure what price would be 
achieved at auction so in my view it took a business risk not to repair it. 
The sale price achieved , in this case ,worked in  MBFS favour . But had the car been 
sold for less then MBFS might  have had an overall loss ,even allowing for the 
charges to Mr D. But I wouldnt have found it fair in that case to expect Mr D to pay 
more . And I didnt think Mr D  would have found it fair either.  So, on that basis I 
didnt feel it was fair to reduce Mr Ds charges based on the sale price.
In summary I felt the charges MBFS were fair, it was entitled to sell the car without 
making repairs and it wasnt reasonable for charges to be related to the sale price at 
auction.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS has accepted my provisional decision and  made no further comments for me to 
respond to.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary he felt he had been misinformed 
over the costs of repair, had no opportunity to make good any repairs himself and felt he had 
been made liable for the cost of MBFS loss rather than the cost of the repair. He also 
pointed out no notice had been taken that the mileage was significantly below the contracted 
mileage.
I have carefully considered Mr Ds points. I dont feel the low mileage is relevant. The cost of 
any repairs to a car is a separate issue. And we dont normally expect that to be offset 
against the mileage.
I cant be sure what Mr D was told at inspection of the potential cost of repair. Or if after the 
inspection he had the opportunity to make good any repairs himself.
But even if Mr D did understand the damage would incur a relatively modest charge the 
inspection sheet stated charges will be confirmed later. So, I dont think he could have 
assumed any indication given during the inspection was absolute.
And, if there was no opportunity to make good any repairs after the inspection ,Mr D knew 
there was some damage to the car .So he could have chosen to get the car repaired himself 
prior to inspection. His contract made it clear he would be liable for damage over and above 
fair wear and tear. And I cant be sure if any repairs he might have arranged himself would 
have been either acceptable or cheaper.
Finally, Mr D has commented that t the cost of the repair  is actually the loss incurred by 
MBFS. I dont believe that is the case. I believe MBFS was reasonable to charge for the 
repair. It was its choice not to make the repair and therefore to sell the car unrepaired at 
auction. That is a business decision it was entitled to take.
I have carefully considered all these points that Mr D has made. But I dont feel that he has 
given me any new information that makes me feel that I should change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman