DRN-2416764
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) declined his claim for 
damaged contents and voided his policy.
What happened
Mr C had contents insurance with RSA, including accidental damage. He made a claim 
under the policy when the hydraulics inside his ottoman bed failed, leaking oil onto a 
designer branded bag stored inside.
RSA investigated the validity of the claim because Mr Cs policy had lapsed two months 
before. But Mr C reported that the damage probably happened when a guests child had 
jumped on the bed a couple of days before the policy lapsed.
On review of the policy, a previous claim, and Mr Cs records, RSA found that he had a 
County Court Judgement (CCJ). The CCJ was issued during the previous policy year when 
he had made his first claim, but RSA wasnt aware of it. It was after investigating the second 
claim that it identified the CCJ. 
RSA declined Mr Cs claim and voided his policy. It told Mr C that he shouldve told it about 
his CCJ at renewal. Had he done so, it wouldnt have offered him cover. RSA refunded his 
premiums from the start of the policy year.
Mr C complained to RSA because he didnt know about the CCJ, so he understood he had 
cover. RSA got information from the court which confirmed that it had notified Mr C of the 
CCJ at the time of issue. Documents Mr C supplied showing demands for payment also 
indicated that he had been made aware of the judgement.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that Mr C shouldve declared his 
CCJ to RSA when he renewed his policy. For that reason, he thought it was fair that RSA 
voided the policy and refunded the premiums.
Mr C didnt agree. He restated his complaint and explained that, due to his personal 
circumstances, he had no knowledge of the CCJ.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr C is having with everyday matters. It must 
be upsetting, and I can see why he wouldve hoped to have his bed repaired or replaced. 
That said, I havent seen anything to suggest that RSA has handled his claim unfairly.
There isnt a dispute about the damage Mr C claimed for. And RSA hasnt declined the claim 
because Mr C made it after his policy lapsed. Its a straightforward issue in that he didnt 
declare a CCJ when he renewed his policy, despite it being information RSA specifically 
asked about.
Before the policy started, RSA sent Mr C the renewal documents. The first page of the 
documents says:
Check your documents and if youd like to change anything please give us a call straight 
away so we can correct it for you, otherwise the cover might be affected and claims may 
not be paid.
The renewal pack also includes a Statement of Fact document, which details the information 
Mr C supplied when taking out the policy. It says:
Important Information
This statement of fact details the information we have used to determine whether to offer 
you a policy
If any informationis incorrect to the best of your knowledgeplease contact [us]as 
this could affect your insurance cover.
If any of the information is incorrect, we may take one of the following actions:
Declare your policy void (as if it never existed)
And,
Information you have agreed to as part of the policy
Has anyone living in your home and insured by this policy [ever been]:
Declared bankrupt or had any unsatisfied CCJs.
Mr C answered no when he first took out the cover, and he didnt contact RSA to amend 
his answer.
The documents are clear, and Im satisfied that RSA informed Mr C what he needed to do at 
renewal, and the consequences of not updating any incorrect information.
I realise the document refers to information which is, incorrect to the best of your 
knowledge, and Mr C said he wasnt aware that he had a CCJ. However, the issuing court 
confirmed to RSA that it notified Mr C of the judgement when it first issued it. Ive also seen 
letters chasing payment which Mr C supplied. Im satisfied that this evidence confirms Mr C 
wouldve been aware of the CCJ when his policy renewed, and he had a duty to tell RSA. 
Finally, Ive thought about whether RSA wouldve renewed the policy anyway if Mr C had 
told it about the changes. Ive looked at the underwriting criteria and Im satisfied that it 
wouldve declined cover had Mr C declared his CCJ. I understand Mr C has some difficulty 
dealing with his correspondence and he doesnt always open it himself, preferring to seek 
the help of a third party. Im sorry to hear of his situation, but it wouldnt be fair to expect 
RSA to accept the claim when it would never have provided cover in the circumstances.So, overall, I think it was fair for RSA to decline Mr Cs claim and then void his policy and 
refund his premiums, in line with the terms and conditions, as if the policy had never existed. 
I wont be asking RSA to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman