DRN-3315219
The complaint
Miss J complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited failed to provide her with 
sufficient evidence that her motor policy covered her for commuting to more than one place 
of work. She said this caused distress, a loss of earnings, and she lost her job as a result.
 
What happened
Miss J holds a motor insurance policy with Hastings. The policy initially provided cover for 
social, domestic, pleasure, and commuting to one fixed place of work. In May 2021, Miss J 
contacted Hastings to upgrade her cover as her employer now required her to travel to 
multiple sites. So her policy was subsequently updated to include Business  class 1 use, 
and new policy documentation was issued. But around a week later, Miss J contacted 
Hastings to say that her employer would not accept this, as it wasnt made clear in the 
documentation that she was covered to attend multiple sites of work.
Hastings responded and said that they felt the policy was clear, they also said that business 
use did include such cover. But they agreed to send Miss J a bespoke letter that day 
confirming this. However, the letter wasnt sent for around a week and a half. So, on 
15 June, Miss J complained. She said she was unhappy the policy didnt make it clear that 
she was covered for commuting to multiple sites, and she said that Hastings had failed to 
send her the proof she needed to provide to her employer within a satisfactory timescale. As 
a result, she said shed not been able to work and had lost, and was still losing, income. 
Hastings responded and paid Miss J £30 compensation in recognition that the service she 
received over the phone couldve been better. They also noted that Miss J had now received 
the bespoke letter. They said if Miss J could provide proof of any loss of earnings she 
experienced as a result of any failing on Hastings part, theyd consider re-imbursing her. 
However, this offer was later withdrawn, as Hastings said they felt the wording on the policy 
would normally be accepted by employers, and they shouldnt be held liable if Miss Js 
employer felt this was insufficient. But Miss J remained unhappy, so she brought her 
complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Miss Js complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think it was right to ask Hastings to pay for Miss Js loss of earnings, as she felt 
Hastings were not responsible for her employer not accepting the policy wording. But she felt 
the service Hastings provided in relation to the bespoke letter was poor, so she 
recommended they increase their offer from £30 to £130.  
Hastings failed to respond to the investigators findings, but Miss J remained unhappy, so 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Miss J and Hastings where Miss J makes it clear that the 
policy seems to suggest that it covers commuting to just one place of work, as well as 
providing cover for private business use. And she explains that she needs to be covered for 
commuting to several locations, not one; and did not want cover for her private business, but 
to be covered in connection with her employment. Hastings respond to explain that the 
policy includes business use which would cover Miss J commuting to multiple locations in 
her employment. But Miss J argues that this isnt clear on the policy, and it is listed directly 
below the section that states she is covered for social, domestic, pleasure and commuting to 
one fixed place of work. And therefore, this was preventing her from being able to work as 
her employers wouldnt accept this. 
Ive considered whats been said here and I can understand where the confusion arises. And 
while it seems from what Hastings has told Miss J, that Business class 1 use may include 
travelling to multiple sites in connection with her employment, I agree with Miss J, that this is 
not clear within the policy. And while I can see that use for your private business is listed 
under her new policy, its not clear that this covers her employment. It also doesnt appear 
that private business is defined anywhere within the policy either. 
Equally, private business use is listed directly under the bullet point that states Miss J is 
covered for travelling to and from one permanent place of business or study. So I can 
understand why Miss J, and her employer, would not be comfortable accepting this 
document as confirmation that she has the required cover in place to travel to multiple sites, 
and why it may appear to her employer that she is only covered for travelling to one fixed 
place of work. So, I think it was reasonable to expect Hastings to go further in order to 
confirm such cover was in place. 
I also think that the advisor that tried to explain that Miss J was covered for business use 
was quite aggressive at times in her tone, and wasnt grasping what Miss J was saying. And 
when Miss J became frustrated and asked if she could raise a complaint, she was told her 
complaint wouldnt be upheld, as business use had been added to her policy. So not only 
did it seem clear the advisor was not grasping what was being said, but she also tried to 
deter Miss J from making a complaint by predicting a negative outcome for Miss J before her 
concerns had been investigated. I agree the service here was poor.
Towards the end of what was a lengthy call, Hastings did eventually agree to send Miss J a 
bespoke letter, explaining that she would be insured to drive to multiple places of work. And 
when Miss J explained the importance of getting this quickly as she was unable to work, she 
was told that the service level agreement for any emails being sent was within 24 hours, but 
that Hastings would try and get it sent straight away. The call was then put on hold and 
Hastings came back to explain theyd managed to get it sent while on the call, and to allow 
up to 24 hours for Miss J to receive it. So, when it took around a week and a half for this to 
come through, I think its likely this would have caused additional stress for Miss J.
In summary, I dont think the call was handled well by Hastings, and I think the advisor 
couldve grasped and taken on board the issues Miss J was raising much sooner. And I think 
the time in which it took to send this confirmation was well beyond the expectations that 
Hastings had set for Miss J, so I think for these issues, some compensation is due. I am 
satisfied however, that the letter, once sent, did adequately explain the cover Miss J had in 
place. And at this point, it should have been enough for Miss J and her employer. 
While Im satisfied Hastings couldve done more and sooner to provide Miss J with the 
confirmation she needed, it does seem from the evidence provided however  that this letter 
still wasnt enough for Miss Js employer. This is because I see Miss J has provided a letter 
from her employer dated September 2021, stating that she was still unable to work since 
May that year, and had lost £7,000 in earnings, despite being sent a letter in early June 2021 evidencing she had the required cover in place for travelling to multiple sites of work. So, I 
think that even if Hastings had sent out this letter on the day theyd agreed to, this would not 
have been accepted by Miss Js employer regardless. So, while there were delays on 
Hastings part, and I agree the service Miss J received was poor, I dont think these delays 
contributed towards her loss of income.
I also think its reasonable to expect that after a few days of Miss J not receiving the 
confirmation she needed, and this impacting her income, that Miss J might have looked to 
switch her insurance to one of many other insurers that provide cover for commuting to 
multiple places of work, in order to mitigate her losses  rather than losing out on such a 
large sum of money. So while Hastings did potentially mismanage Miss Js expectations in 
initially agreeing to consider any loss of income that their lack of service resulted in, based 
on what Ive seen, Hastings delays dont seem to have resulted in the loss of income Miss J 
has experienced. 
So overall, while I agree that service Hastings provided Miss J was poor, I think the 
increased offer of £130 recommended by the investigator was sufficient compensation in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking Hastings to pay anything further beyond this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint, and require Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Miss J a further £100 in compensation, in addition to the £30 theyve 
already paid.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman