DRN-4497947
The complaint
Miss M and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has declined a claim 
made under their let property building insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to AXA, this also includes any actions and involvement by agents 
appointed to act on their behalf.
What happened
Miss M and Mrs S own a property which is let out to tenants. They have a building insurance 
policy covering the property underwritten by AXA.
In November 2022, Miss M and Mrs S made a claim to AXA for damage caused by an 
escape of water from the bathroom of the property.
AXA inspected the damage and subsequently declined the claim. They said the damage was 
caused gradually as a result of failed sealant and grout, which is excluded under the policy.
Miss M and Mrs S didnt agree and obtained their own expert report, which reached different 
conclusions to AXA. It concluded there had been a leak from the shower pipe. This report 
was sent to AXA, but their claim decision remained.
As Miss M and Mrs S were unhappy with AXAs position, they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
was persuaded by the conclusions reached by AXA, and they had fairly declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms.
Miss M and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss M and Mrs S, 
Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
AXAs surveyor inspected the reported damage and concluded:
In the bathroom the affected area is the shower area, they have cut out a section of 
tiles and a section of mould is evident. They believe the issue is the mixer shower 
tap. The damage is not consistent with a leak from this area, there is no evidence of 
any water damage to the timber directly below. The damage appears consistent with 
failed sealant and grout, the area has been heavily over sealed with silicone. The 
skirting board is coming away from the wall due to a long term issue. The damage to 
the floor is extensive due to a long term leak.
And:
The property has been inspected, and the damage is not consistent with an escape 
of water from pipework. The damage appears consistent with failed sealant and 
grout. The timber stud wall is undamaged below the pipework. The damage to the 
garage is ongoing. The shower area has been heavily resealed previously.
Miss M and Mrs S policy does provide cover for damage caused by an escape of water. But 
taking into account the conclusions reached by their surveyor, AXA declined the claim based 
on the following exclusion:
What is not covered
Loss or damage caused by failure or lack of sealant and/or grout.
Miss M and Mrs S didnt agree and appointed their own expert to report on the cause of 
damage. In summary, they said the leak wasnt from the sealant and instead it was from the 
back of the shower head and pipework. 
Miss M and Mrs S also provided their views on how the damage occurred and why they think 
AXA reached the wrong conclusion, they say there was a loose nut on the shower pipe 
installation. They also provided photos of a water droplet on the shower pipe installation.
Having considered all the information provided, including the reports and extensive images 
of the damage, Im persuaded by AXAs surveyors findings and think the images support 
those conclusions reached. In my view, the images support damage being caused by failed 
sealant and grout, which has historically been resealed a number of times. The images also 
support that there has been a visible ongoing issue and leak, which has caused visible 
ongoing damage in the surrounding areas, including skirting boards, walls, floors and the 
ceiling below, gradually over time.
As Im persuaded by the conclusions reached by AXAs surveyor, I dont think AXA has 
acted unfairly by declining the claim based on the exclusion it has relied on.
However, I should also note here that Miss M and Mrs S expert report also concludes that 
there has been an ongoing leak, causing damage over time. Miss M and Mrs S also said:
In reality, the damage is consistent with only one thing, a long-term release of water 
and it is the cause of this release of water that we are challenging.
So, Miss M and Mrs S dont dispute that there has been an ongoing leak, and instead dont 
agree that sealant and grout was the cause. However, even if I was persuaded by Miss M and Mrs S expert report and their views on 
how the damage occurred (which Im not), their policy also has the following exclusion which 
applies to the whole policy:
We will not pay for:
Gradual damage/deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused gradually or by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects 
of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from 
the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and landlords contents.
So, even if there was a slow leak from a pipe, rather than the sealant and grout, which had 
caused the damage which has visibly been ongoing for a period of time, the claim still 
wouldnt be covered in any event based on the above policy exclusion. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman