DRN-3022424
The complaint
Mr O complains that he didnt receive items he ordered using credit provided by JD Williams 
& Company Limited (JD Williams).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I understand that Mr O is frustrated and disappointed that JD Williams have continued to 
charge him for items dispatched and that he says he never received.
On balance Im persuaded that there is sufficient information to suggest the items were 
delivered to Mr O. I say that because I can see GPS information demonstrates the delivery 
driver was at Mr Os address on the dates and times the delivery was said to have been 
made, and because Ive seen a photograph of the delivery. JD Williams have explained that 
Mr O would have received emails to explain that the parcels were being delivered and Id 
therefore expect Mr O to be alive to the prospects of missing the delivery after he said the 
first had gone missing.
I can see that due to Covid restrictions the parcel was photographed at the door rather than 
in Mr Os possession, but I think that was standard practice at the time.
I think its therefore more likely than not that the deliveries were made and Im not asking JD 
Williams to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman