DRN-3029037
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont refund him after he lost money to an 
impersonation scam.  
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in March 2021, Mr B was contacted by a fraudster 
who had hacked his friends social media account. Posing as Mr Bs friend, the fraudster 
explained theyd locked themselves out of their online banking for 24 hours and needed help 
paying a bill for £390. The fraudster asked if Mr B could lend the money until the following 
morning, when theyd pay the money back, plus an additional £30 as a thank you.
Mr B agreed to help and insisted he didnt need any additional money as thanks. Before 
sending the funds, Mr B first sent the fraudster a screenshot of the payment to ensure the 
account details were correct. The fraudster confirmed they were, and that their payee details 
cant always be confirmed when making payments to her.
On this basis, Mr B made the payment and heard nothing further from the fraudster. The 
following day Mr Bs friend informed him that her account had been hacked and Mr Bs 
money had in fact been sent to a fraudster. Having realised hed been the victim of a scam, 
Mr B contacted Starling Bank to raise a claim. 
Starling Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Starling Bank says one or 
more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Starling Bank has said Mr B made the payment without having a reasonable basis for 
believing it was a genuine payment. Starling Bank considers that Mr B ought to have done 
more to verify the legitimacy of the payment before making it. It said Mr B didnt receive 
confirmation that the account in question was in his friends name before making the 
payment. Starling Bank said Mr B also failed to query why his friend was unable to call their 
bank in order to unlock their online banking and that Mr B shouldve thought this unusual, 
having never sent money to this friend before.
Starling Bank also said Mr B ignored an effective warning it provided when Mr B made the 
payment to the fraudster. The warning read as follows:
Could this payment be part of a scam?
Always verify who you are sending money to as you may not be able to recover these 
funds. A fraudster may tell you to ignore these warning. Visit our website for scam advice.
Mr B feels he should be refunded and so has referred his complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into Mr Bs complaint and thought he did have a reasonable basis for believing this 
was a legitimate payment. She also didnt consider the warning Starling Bank had relied on 
was effective under the Code. As Starling Bank disagreed with the investigators opinion, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling Bank should have refunded the money 
Mr B lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Starling Bank should fairly and reasonably refund the money  
Mr B lost.
The money was taken from Mr Bs current account. It is not clear how Mr B would 
have used the money if Starling Bank had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Starling Bank should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date Starling Bank decided not to refund Mr B under the 
CRM Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Starling Banks representations about the warning it gave and 
whether Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they 
do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr B 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for Starling Bank to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that Starling didnt provide an effective warning because:
The Code states that, among other things, an effective warning must be specific and 
impactful. I dont think Starlings warning met these criteria in Mr Bs circumstances. It 
wasnt specific to impersonation scams such as his  not providing any context on 
what types of scams are prevalent and how scammers are able to disguise 
themselves and I dont think would reasonably have had the desired impact on       
Mr Bs actions to reconsider the payment as a result.
An effective warning must also include actions for a customer to take to protect 
themselves. In this case, the warning states to verify who you are sending money to - 
but Mr B believes he did do this by confirming the account details again with the 
fraudster. Starling Bank has said Mr B shouldve verified his friends details through a 
different communication channel than that initially used by the fraudster, but its 
warning doesnt specify this. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think 
Starlings warning went far enough in explaining how Mr B couldve better protected 
himself from financial harm.
Im also satisfied that Starling Bank has not shown that Mr B lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
Mr B was contacted by the fraudster through what he wouldve considered was a 
secure, protected social media account. I think its fair to say that when contacted in 
such a way, in the absence of any red flags, its reasonable to assume youre 
speaking to the person who owns the account.Having reviewed the communication between Mr B and the fraudster, I dont think 
theres anything in the way the fraudster communicates that would reasonably cause 
Mr B to doubt if the person was legitimate. Hes explained this is his usual method of 
contact with his friend and that the fraudster even replicated the style in which his 
friend usually speaks. While Mr B hadnt made a payment to this friend before, the 
fraudster doesnt apply any pressure when making the request and is apologetic for 
having to do so. I dont think its unreasonable, considering all of the circumstances, 
that Mr B considered he was helping a friend in a difficult situation without probing 
further on other actions the friend could instead take.
During the payment process, there was no Confirmation of Payee facility to advise  
Mr B whether the name and account details hed inputted matched. Despite this 
option not being available to him, Mr B still made attempts to confirm the account 
details were correct by providing screenshots to the fraudster of the account and 
asking for confirmation before proceeding. I think in the absence of anything more 
tangible to rely on, this was a reasonable step for Mr B to have taken.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Starling Bank has shown that Mr B lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the transaction in question, or that it provided him with 
an effective warning before making the payment. Starling Bank should therefore refund the 
funds Mr B lost to the fraudster.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against 
Starling Bank Limited. I require Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund Mr B the £390 he lost to the scam
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Starling Bank declined Mr Bs claim under the 
CRM Code to the date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman