DRN-3159346
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.      
Summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs W said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside two loans in 2007 and 2008.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr and Mrs W had referred the complaint to us too late.   
But Lloyds did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mr and Mrs Ws PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about the high 
level of commission and profit share theyd pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint about how these policies were sold. And they thought Lloydss payment was a fair 
way to resolve the complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint was made in April 2019. This is more than six years after Lloyds 
sold the policies to them  in 2007 and 2008  which are the events theyre complaining 
about here. So I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of 
when Mr and Mrs W should reasonably have been aware they had cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mr and Mrs W a letter in November 2013, which they resent in January 
2014, which alerted them to the possibility something might have gone wrong with their 
policy sales. Given what Mr and Mrs W are complaining about, I think they should 
reasonably have been aware they had reason to complain when they got this letter. I say this 
because their main complaint point is around them not being told the policies exclusions and 
limitations, especially around pre-existing medical conditions. But the letter says that the 
advisor should have gone through the significant exclusions and limitations of the policy and 
goes on to mention the pre-existing medical condition limitations. So I think the letter could 
have put Mr and Mrs W on notice that they had cause to complain. 
Three years from the first letter is 21 November 2016. This means Mr and Mrs W needed to 
make their complaint about the policy sales by 21 November 2016. As they didnt complain 
until April 2019, their complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But, other than what Ive looked at 
above, Mr and Mrs W havent given any reasons for the delay. So Im sorry that were unable 
to help Mr and Mrs W with their complaint about how these policies were sold. 
Non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs W because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipConsumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs W should get back all the money they paid for the 
policies because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr and Mrs W about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policies were poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policies had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr and Mrs W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not 
disclosing the high level of commission to them before they purchased the policies.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policies but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs W paid for their PPI policies - I consider this fairly 
removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Lloydss payment of the policies costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Lloyds has already paid Mr and Mrs W compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further. 
My decision
Im unable to consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about how their policies were sold, 
because it was referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the 
time limits was because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policies cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before                 
4 February 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman