DRN-3662104
The complaint
In summary, Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc didnt tell her that the interest rate on 
her ISA accounts changed when they matured. As a result, she says she has lost out on 
interest for both accounts.
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs G opened two fixed rate ISA accounts. The rates were fixed for two 
years and matured in October 2020. 
In September 2020, Santander wrote to Mrs G. The letters it sent explained that her ISA 
accounts were maturing shortly and set out the rate of interest that would apply once the 
fixed rate period came to an end. 
In June 2022 Mrs G contacted Santander and complained about the amount of interest she 
had received since 2020. Santander told Mrs G that the fixed rate had come to an end in 
2020. As a goodwill gesture it offered her £75. 
Mrs Gs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. As no agreement could be reached the 
case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs G took out the ISAs, she would have been provided with a key facts document 
which set out the terms and conditions for the accounts. This explained the ISA rate was 
fixed for two years, and that 14 days before the ISA matured, Santander would contact her 
to tell her what her options would be. It also explained that if it didnt hear from her, the fixed 
rate ISA would be transferred to an ISA saver account which at that time, was paying a 
variable interest rate of less than 0.5% annual equivalent rate (AER). 
In addition, Santander has from its records, been able to provide copies of letters it says 
were sent to Mrs G prior to the ISAs matured. These were dated two weeks prior to the 
maturity date of 1 October 2020. They explained that the ISA was maturing and that the new 
interest rate would be variable and would be 0.01% AER. They also explained that a range 
of cash ISAs were available including a fixed rate ISA. 
I understand that Mrs G doesnt recall receiving these letters but Ive no reason to doubt 
from the evidence I have that they were sent to her. As a result, Im satisfied that the 
information Santander provided to Mrs G, would have informed her when her fixed rate ISAs 
were coming to an end, and the interest rate that would apply to them when they matured.
Santander has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint. Mrs G should 
contact Santander directly if she now wishes to accept this (if she hasnt already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I dont 
think Santander UK Plc needs to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman