DRN-3479502
The complaint
Mr R complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited refuses to refund money he lost 
to a binary options investment scammer. 
What happened
Mr R saw Greenfields Capital (GC) on a social media advert. He left his contact details on 
their webform and a broker representing GC contacted him. The broker persuaded him to 
invest and he agreed to deposit a small amount of money using his debit card account. He 
was required to provide his identification documents to complete his registration with GC but 
when he didnt do so, they returned the funds he had deposited. Mr R says he found this 
reassuring.
 
Mr R was contacted by the broker and was provided with a testing platform with GC, the 
broker asked him to download AnyDesk so that he could advise on his trades. Mr R 
deposited a small amount of money using his debit card account and he made trades and 
noted some small gains. The broker suggested that Mr R deposit a larger sum to make 
larger gains. He was reluctant but the broker advised that if he used his credit card account, 
he would be covered by the chargeback scheme. He was encouraged to check with his 
credit card company (John Lewis) and he says it confirmed (on two separate occasions) that 
he would be protected by using his credit card.
 
Mr R made the following payments using his John Lewis Mastercard credit card which are 
also the amounts he is seeking to recover in this complaint:
Date Merchant Amount Running total
2 November 2017 GC £10,000 £10,000
2 November 2017 GC £2,000 £12,000
6 November 2017 GC £2,500 £14,500
Towards the end of November 2017, Mr Rs account with GC lost money to trades. GC 
reassured Mr R that it would return the losses and when this didnt happen, he contacted the 
FCA for guidance. Mr R contacted John Lewis on 1 December 2017 to report that he thought 
hed been scammed, he provided a crime reference number and asked for it to carry out a 
dispute claim. He also referenced his earlier call with them where they advised his payments 
would be protected. On 5 December 2017, John Lewis advised Mr R that it couldnt treat the 
transactions as fraudulent because he provided his card details to GC and pointed out that it 
flagged the third payment as risky and only approved it once Mr R confirmed the transaction 
was genuine. 
Mr R attempted to engage further with GC to retrieve his money but was unsuccessful. He 
contacted John Lewis on 10 January 2018 to discuss his credit card repayments. He 
discussed the disputed transactions again and John Lewis reviewed whether he may have 
chargeback options. John Lewis wrote to Mr R in February 2018 to explain that he didnt 
have chargeback options according to the Mastercard dispute rules. It further concluded he 
had no s.75 rights under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mr R asked John Lewis to review its position in March 2018 which it agreed to do. Whilst it 
did so, John Lewis applied adverse information on Mr Rs credit file in respect of falling short 
of his credit card repayments. Mr R complained but it took John Lewis some time to rectify 
the problem.
 
John Lewis acknowledge there have been some service failings specifically surrounding a 
system limitation that doesnt allow it to remove arrears and also surrounding the 
amendment of Mr Rs credit file. In recognition of its failings, it fully amended Mr Rs credit 
file from October 2017 onwards; refunded all interest and fees amounting to £1,188.89; 
removed arrears to show the account was in an up to date position; paid compensation at 
various stages amounting to £875 and explained Mr Rs s.75 and chargeback rights. John 
Lewis maintains it made the correct decision not to refund the disputed payments. 
Unhappy with John Lewis response, Mr R referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think John Lewis made a mistake when Mr R initially called it for 
general information relating to credit card purchases. He also felt that John Lewis fairly 
explained the transactions werent covered by s.75 or chargeback. 
Mr R didnt agree. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
On 27 April 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Firstly, I dont think John Lewis acted unreasonably in declining to pursue Mr Rs chargeback 
claim. Mastercard significantly limits any chargeback options available for investment or 
gambling disputes, so I dont think John Lewis had any dispute rights available to use in light 
of Mr Rs claim that he had been scammed. 
John Lewis is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr R for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr R using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by John Lewis. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider John 
Lewis should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied GC were scammers. Various regulators published warnings about them on the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Investor Alerts Portal between March 2018 - April 2018. The regulators included Superintendencia del Mercado de 
Valores in Panama and Czech National Bank in Czech Republic. The FCA also published a 
scam warning about GC in March 2018. All the warnings were published after the date of Mr 
Rs payments, so I dont think the payment to them alone ought to have triggered John 
Lewis fraud team to intervene. But I do think the first payment of £10,000 was unusual for 
Mr R. It was a very large amount and Mr R hadnt previously made payments of this 
magnitude from the statements Ive seen. We know that John Lewis fraud team did flag the 
third payment which Ill discuss below but Im satisfied there ought to have been fraud 
triggers for the initial payment.
Ive noted that Mr R called John Lewis prior to paying GC. I agree with our investigators 
conclusions that he just asked for general information about credit card protection and didnt 
ask specific questions around the type of transaction he was about to make or GC. Though I 
do think the purpose of this call was to reassure himself that hed be protected if he was 
provided with a service and were to be ripped off. This was further emphasised when Mr R 
stated to the John Lewis adviser: .presumably thats because when I make a transaction 
electronically and I go through a verification process, the verification process is on you to 
make sure youre sending money to a legitimate business. The adviser replied: yes thats 
correct. Mr R said: so in other words, I can feel safe that.if I make a Visa or Mastercard 
transaction online that the verification process I go through is your security process to check 
the originator or the recipient of the funds can make sure theyre legitimate. The adviser 
said: thats correct yes. Mr R said: that makes me feel a lot safer. 
I dont think that John Lewis missed an opportunity to provide specific information on binary 
options transactions or GC specifically, but I do think Mr R clearly took reassurance that 
John Lewis would check that GC were legitimate before processing the payment. This 
information was not correct and I do think Mr R was misled by this statement. 
Ive further noted that John Lewis security team flagged the final payment to GC of £2,500 
on 6 November 2017. Mr R was sent a text to confirm the transaction as genuine but he 
opted to call John Lewis for further guidance. Ive included my notes on this call here:
Mr R: this is all a bit new to me, so GC is an options trader.Ive deposited some 
money with them.initially I was concerned that it could be a scam and I did some 
research and Ive done all the due diligence that I could do about them and what Im 
reading is that it is legitimate.and I did check with one of your colleagues before I 
made the transaction.I dont know if you know anything about options trading but a 
lot of people are doing this now so its not a new thing but basically I said look Im 
very concerned and he said look, phone up your credit card company and confirm 
that we cant take a payment from a credit card unless were a legitimate company 
because youll have to go through the verification process and once you do that 
verification process basically that is the credit card company checking out the 
beneficiary account and confirming the beneficiary account is legitimate and legal 
and whats more, if it wasnt legitimate and legal or if anything goes wrong, youre 
entitled to get your money back from the credit card company.so I confirmed that 
with your colleague who confirmed that was absolutely correct. So from my point of 
view as an individual that gives me all the protection I need really it just alerted me 
again so I just wanted to phone again to check that everything was ok.
John Lewis adviser: all that is..due to the larger amount previously.our system 
just wanted to send an information check.its no reflection on the actual 
company.you dont need to worry.you are right, everything on the credit card is 
guaranteed, its all covered, its not an issue of thatI think John Lewis missed an opportunity to provide Mr R with a meaningful warning about 
binary options scammers. 
If John Lewis had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason 
to doubt that Mr R would have explained what he was doing. After all he proactively called 
John Lewis when he received a fraud text when he simply could have confirmed the 
transaction as genuine but he wanted to discuss it further and reassure himself that he is 
protected should anything go wrong. In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to 
protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have explained to him the 
very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed binary options dealers. It 
could have also explained its own customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed 
high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing 
available balances and would be provided with fake trading platforms that look legitimate. 
After all, at that time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to 
have known even if a consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary 
options trading, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 
warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City 
of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options 
fraud; and so forth). 
If John Lewis had asked Mr R what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, 
it is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with his broker. John Lewis did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr R was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that John Lewis ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options dealers. 
If John Lewis had given a warning and correctly explained that Mastercards dispute rules 
didnt cover most issues with binary options transactions and that it didnt think section 75 
could apply to these payments, I believe that Mr R would have paused. If John Lewis had 
directed Mr R to the FCA for further guidance, Im persuaded he would have contacted them 
(as he did so at a later date). There is no evidence that he was willing to take high risks or 
had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable that he would 
have made further enquiries into the operation of binary options scammers and discovered 
the various regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams. In other 
words, I am satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have exposed 
GCs smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were required to be regulated by the UKs 
Gambling Commission even though binary options was not yet regulated by the FCA. So 
before Mr Rs payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his 
tracks. But for John Lewiss failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, 
Mr R would probably have not lost any money. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr R should share blame for what happened. Mr R carried out due diligence checks on GC 
prior to investing with them. He found no adverse information and believed it was a legitimate company. Before making larger payments to them, he sought clarification from 
John Lewis that he would be protected using his credit card (which corroborated GCs 
advice) and that John Lewis would check that GC were legitimate before allowing any 
payments to go through to them. I dont think there were any further reasonable steps he 
could have taken unless he was prompted to do so by John Lewis.
I think John Lewis provided some poor customer service to Mr R which it has acknowledged. 
I think the steps it took to put things right by refunding fees and charges, rectifying his credit 
file and paying compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I make no 
further award on this point. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R and John Lewis both replied and accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of Mr R and John Lewis responses in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint. I therefore see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, John Lewis Financial Services Limited should:
Refund all three of Mr Rs disputed payments (totaling £14,500), less any credits 
received to Mr Rs John Lewis credit card account from GC. 
Refund any transaction fees applied to each of the disputed payments at bullet point 
one. 
Refund interest and charges applied to Mr Rs John Lewis credit card in respect of 
the disputed payments only. 
Pay 8% interest on any payments Mr R made towards his John Lewis credit card 
account in relation to the disputed payments only. If John Lewis deducts tax in 
relation to the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr R with the 
appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman