DRN-3717661
The complaint
Mr L says Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(referred to throughout as BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under sections 75 and 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)  as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006  
in relation to a timeshare he purchased in September 2011 (the Time of Sale). 
Background to this complaint
Mr L was an existing customer of Club La Costa Leisure Limited (referred to throughout as 
CLC) having purchased a Trial Membership in June 2011. The Trial Membership consisted 
of five weeks holiday accommodation to be taken in CLCs portfolio of resorts within a period 
of 34 months. 
On 14 September 2011, Mr L traded in his Trial Membership for a full membership in CLCs 
Vacation Club (The Membership) and 1,000 points. The total cost of The Membership was 
£14,694, which was paid for by way of trading in Mr Ls Trial Membership and taking a loan 
for the balance with BPF. Mr L also refinanced an earlier loan, so in total he borrowed 
£12,110 and the loan was set to run for 15 years. The total amount to be repaid if the loan 
ran to term was £32,677.20. 
Mr L was also required to pay fees and charges for The Membership to CLC. In 2012, Mr L 
paid a Vacation Club Membership Fee of €267.18 and Vacation Club Points Rights Dues of 
€895.70 (total €1,162.88). Both these fees continued to be levied annually, increasing each 
year. By 2016, Mr Ls Vacation Club Membership Fee was €320.39, and the Vacation Club 
Points Rights Dues was €1,054.60.
Mr L has utilised the membership on several occasions including a promotional holiday in 
June 2012 and several further holidays in August 2012, August 2015 and August 2016. 
In November 2016, Mr L (using a professional representative) made a claim against BPF 
under Section 140A of the CCA (the Letter of Claim). Several reasons for the claim were 
given and it isnt practical to repeat them all here. But in summary, the Letter of Claim said 
the following:
CLC (on BPFs behalf) did not conduct a proper assessment of Mr Ls financial 
position and ability to repay the loan. It cited the Finance and Leasing Associations 
(FLA) Code, s.140A and case law when concluding that a proper assessment was 
not carried out to determine if Mr L could afford the loan. 
CLC applied considerable pressure on Mr L to agree to The Membership and 
connected finance during a sales presentation which lasted for several hours. Mr L 
says he was told that if he wanted to enter a contract with CLC he had to do so then 
and there, without taking time away to think it over. Mr L recalls the paperwork taking 
very little time to complete and believes various facts were skipped over, including 
the rate of interest which was applicable to the loan. 
CLC breached EU law. 
Certain representations were made to Mr L which he says turned out to be untrue. 
Specifically, he says he was told he would be able to book holidays during the 
summer holidays and that he could end his membership at any time as CLC would 
buy back his points. After purchasing, Mr L says he found he was unable to book for 
the dates requested and certainly not in the school holidays and he has now been 
told that CLC does not offer a buy back scheme. 
Mr L says he is now saddled with significant maintenance fees, which continue to 
increase, and he has no prospect of booking any holidays. 
Mr Ls representative also asked for further information, including confirmation about 
the level of commission paid between BPF and CLC. 
In its conclusion, the Letter of Claim states CLC is in breach of its contract between itself and 
Mr L in that CLC did not conduct a proper assessment of Mr Ls financial position and ability 
to repay the loan, and secondly, applied considerable pressure to him to procure his 
agreement to the loan and, finally, breached EU law. Mr Ls representative set out that he is 
entitled to seek damages and compensation from BPF. 
BPF responded to the Letter of Claim on 15 December 2016. It treated Mr Ls claim under 
s.140A as a complaint and issued a response  considering both s.75 ands.140A of the 
CCA. It didnt agree there was a breach or misrepresentation by CLC (under s.75 of the 
CCA) and it also didnt agree with Mr Ls arguments that there was an unfair relationship 
under s.140A of the CCA. In summary, it said:
Mr L was under no obligation to upgrade his Trial Membership during the 
presentation in September 2011 and confirms he was offered a 14-day cooling-off 
period in the contractual agreement and in a separate notice of withdrawal form. 
Mr L chose to take out the loan with BPF. He was under no obligation to do so and 
could have funded the timeshare through other means if that had been his 
preference. 
Full Pre-Contract Information was provided, reviewed and accepted based on the 
information Mr L provided. All pertinent information given, and documents presented 
at the point of sale are clear and concise and confirm all aspects of the loan. These 
documents were signed off by Mr L as being read and understood and again, a 14-
day cooling-off period was offered by BPF. 
The finance offered was not pre-approved. Mr L had a substantial salary of £54,000 
per annum at the application stage. It was deemed that Mr L sufficiently met BPFs 
lending criteria.
Availability of the holidays is on a first come first served basis and a member can 
reserve holidays up to 24 months in advance. Mr L was offered accommodation in 
August 2014, travelled in August 2015 and again in August 2016. So BPF disagrees 
with the suggestion that Mr L has been unable to find availability during school 
holidays. It also highlighted Clause 4 (initialled and signed by Mr L) in the Members 
Declaration which states CLC has no resale program. 
It found the representatives arguments relating to an unfair relationship to be 
generic, lacking points specific to Mr L. 
BPF considers it is under no legal or regulatory obligation to disclose payment or 
receipt of any commission in relation to Mr Ls purchase. Unhappy with the outcome of BPFs investigation into his claim, Mr L brought a complaint to 
our service that BPF had unfairly turned down the claim. In addition to the points raised 
earlier, Mr Ls representative argued:
The documentation between CLC & Mr L makes it clear that CLC is Mr Ls agent and 
as such, there is a fiduciary relationship between CLC, as agent, and Mr L (citing the 
test set out in Bristol & West Building Society v Mothew [1998] 1 Ch 1.). It argues that 
CLC is under a duty to Mr L not to make a secret profit, as this would constitute a 
breach of fiduciary duty and could give rise to other issues and claims. It argues that 
if CLC made a secret profit, this is intrinsic to Mr Ls claim under s.140A of the CCA. 
It cited Wilson v Hurstanger Ltd [2007] EWCA Civ 299 and argues the court ruled 
that an unsophisticated buyer should be provided with a statement of the amount of 
commission the broker is due to receive from the lender so they can be aware of any 
potential conflict of interest. Mr L was not provided with the details of the commission 
received nor was he told commission would be paid (which wouldnt be sufficient 
following the ruling in McWilliams v Norton Finance (UK) Limited (in liquidation) 
[2015] EWCA Civ 186). This therefore creates an unfair relationship under s.140A of 
the CCA. 
It also references the Office of Fair Tradings (referred to as OFT throughout) 
guidance for credit intermediaries (November 2011). It is argued that the OFT 
questioned a brokers fitness to hold a CCA licence if the broker doesnt make the 
borrower aware of a commission fee, or other form of renumeration, payable by the 
creditor when appropriate to do so. It is said that this in turn impacts on the 
impartiality of CLC, therefore making the relationship between BPF and Mr L unfair 
under s.140A of the CCA.
Mr L also contacted our service directly and said that the reality of being a CLC member is 
not how it was described to him and has not lived up to the expectation given at the point of 
sale. He said there was no availability during school holidays despite this being promised 
and very important to him. He also explained that at the start of his membership, CLC gave 
extra points but these were soon eaten up as holiday costs (and therefore the points 
attributed to them) increased. Mr L explained that he is in arrears with his maintenance fees 
and he doesnt feel there is any way he can get them up to date. 
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered everything that 
had been said and provided so far, wasnt persuaded that there was a reason to uphold it. In 
summary he said:
BPF considered and responded to a s.75 CCA claim which the investigator 
highlighted Mr L and his representatives did not raise. However, the investigator 
concluded that the nature of some of the points raised align with a claim for 
misrepresentation under s.75 of the CCA. So, he thought BPF was right to consider 
it. 
He had not been provided with documentation detailing the sales process CLC 
followed in Mr Ls specific sale but he had reviewed other CLC documentation which 
he considered to be indicative of how CLC sold its products around the time Mr L 
made his purchase. In reaching his opinion, he noted Mr L had signed documents 
which detail that holidays are subject to availability and that CLC does not operate a 
resale programme. The investigator also highlighted that Mr L had travelled during 
school holidays on several occasions. So, he didnt think The Membership was 
misrepresented to Mr L and concluded that BPF hadnt acted unfairly in declining 
Mr Ls claim for misrepresentation. In relation to Mr Ls allegation of pressure, the investigator agreed its likely the sales 
agents would continually highlight the positives of the product in the face of concerns 
and objections by the consumer to obtain a sale. But in the absence of any detail 
from Mr L about what it was that made him feel pressured during the sale, he wasnt 
persuaded Mr L felt he had no option but to go ahead with the product. And had Mr L 
been pressured into taking out The Membership, when he otherwise didnt want to, 
the investigator found he was given information about the right to withdraw from the 
agreement within 14 days and given a pre-populated form to complete if he wanted 
to take this course of action. The investigator felt this could have mitigated any 
potential unfairness. 
The investigator explored how Mr L could exit from the contract given his arguments 
that he was tied into The Membership, with fees that continue year on year, whilst he 
is unable to benefit or exit from it. The investigator concluded that there were several 
provisions within the contractual information which gave details on how to exit the 
agreement  specifically clauses 7,12 and 43 in the Articles of Association. 
Clause 43 addressed how the association could be wound up. However, as this 
related to winding up the association as a whole, he concluded this gave Mr L limited 
practical help to exit The Membership. 
The investigator thought Clause 7 was more relevant to Mr Ls concerns. Clause 7 
states the member will cease to be a member upon death or by giving notice under 
clause 7.2. Clause 7.5 allows for any outstanding fees and charges to be claimed 
from the member or his estate. But it is not made clear whether the member needed 
to pay all outstanding charges before they were eligible to terminate their 
membership by giving notice, or whether they could terminate and remain liable to 
pay any applicable fees and charges at a future date. 
The investigator thought it would be contrary to common sense that a member could 
be deprived of his or her ability to terminate by the fact of having any amount, 
however small, outstanding when notice to terminate is given. He also thought such a 
rule would set a trap for any consumers who fell into financial difficulties and needed 
to terminate their membership for that reason. He didnt think it likely that the parties 
intended to contract on terms that meant the less able a consumer was to meet the 
annual fees and charges due from members, the more difficult it would be for them to 
relinquish their membership. 
So, he interpreted clause 7.2 as allowing members to terminate an agreement with 
fees outstanding but their liability to pay any fees and charges, up to and including 
the full year fees for the year in which termination occurs, would be maintained. He 
asked BPF to confirm if his interpretation was correct and noted that this information 
was not set out in the Information Statement provided to Mr L at the time of sale. 
The investigator found clause 12, as it was at the time of sale, allowed for Mr L to be 
stripped of his membership rights and potentially his membership overall, essentially 
at CLCs discretion, if he failed to pay any of the charges due. A member could 
therefore lose all their membership rights if there was a small amount outstanding. 
In December 2015, several changes were made to the documents governing the 
contract. An indefinite suspension provision was added in circumstances where a 
member was in default (clause 12.2.7). There were also amendments to the Scheme 
Regulations (8. PROCEDURES FOR REINSTATEMENT) and Article 4.4 in the 
Articles of Association (which now says that a member will lose voting rights or the 
opportunity to use The Membership until they are reinstated). The investigator concluded that the changes were to remedy any potential unfairness that the original 
clause 12 could have created. 
The investigator didnt think that Article 4.4 was clear on whether fees and charges 
continue to accrue during suspension  as believed by Mr L. He concluded it would 
clearly be unfair if they did and found this contrary to the purpose for which the 
suspension provision was put in place in December 2015. He also noted that 
although Mr Ls membership was suspended, CLC had not applied management 
charges or fees since his suspension. So, he thought the correct interpretation of 
these terms was that the fees and charges didnt continue to accrue after suspension 
and as such, he didnt think these terms operated in the way Mr L had suggested or 
that they created an unfair relationship. 
Again, the investigator asked BPF to confirm with CLC if his interpretation of the 
terms was correct. 
The investigator didnt agree that CLC was acting as Mr Ls agent and didnt think 
there was a fiduciary relationship between the two parties. He also thought that if 
paid, the amount of commission charged was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, he 
didnt think that the courts would agree that non-disclosure and payment of 
commission at this level would have created an unfair relationship. 
In respect of Mr Ls complaint that the loan was unaffordable, the investigator noted 
that Mr L had kept up with his regular monthly payments and then settled the loan in 
full after two years. And without any further information from Mr L as to why he 
thought the loan was unaffordable, he wasnt persuaded to uphold the complaint on 
this point. 
BPF, after discussions with CLC, said it could not entirely agree with the investigators 
analysis of CLCs contractual terms. However, it did accept that the practical reality for all 
customers, including those in financial difficulties, did align with the approach set out by the 
investigator. So, it did not consider it helpful to discuss the points any further. 
It confirmed that if a management fee is not paid, then The Membership would be 
suspended, and fees would not continue to accrue  as thought by our investigator. 
BPF set out that members who had been suspended following default in their membership 
fees, would be able to make payment of no more than one years management fees to then 
terminate their timeshare. This was a departure from the investigators conclusion that a 
member could terminate without payment. 
Overall, BPF did not agree with the suggestion that timeshare customers like Mr L were 
trapped in their timeshare contracts, unable to use the product and with increasing amounts 
of outstanding membership fees. 
Mr L and his representatives disagreed with the investigators opinion without providing 
additional reasons. They asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As an 
informal resolution of this complaint wasnt possible, it was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding the complaint in August 2022. In summary, I 
reached the following provisional conclusions:
A number of Mr Ls complaint points give rise to a s.75 CCA claim, so I was satisfied 
BPF were right to consider it as such. However, I was not persuaded The 
Membership was misrepresented to Mr L, so I thought it was fair for BPF to decline the claim. 
I was not persuaded Mr L purchased The Membership because he was pressured to 
do so. Instead, I thought it was more likely that Mr L went ahead with this purchase 
because he was interested in taking out the product. 
In the event commission was paid, I didnt think it was at a level which would have 
influenced Mr Ls decision making when weighing up this purchase. And I didnt think 
it was likely the courts would conclude there was an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship on this point.  
I was not persuaded that the loan was unaffordable for Mr L and I though the interest 
payable on the loan was set out clearly on the loan agreement. 
I had not seen any evidence to suggest BPF both breached EU law and that in turn, 
this led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.  
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence they wished me 
to consider before I issued my final decision. 
BPF responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mr Ls representative chose not to make any further submissions specific to Mr L or his 
original complaint. Instead, it submitted a report written by counsel which sets out that the 
submissions contained within, are genericand not for individual complainants
As the deadline set for both parties to respond has passed, it is now appropriate for me to 
issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I am required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a)Law and regulations;
(b)Regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c)Codes of practice; and 
(2) (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So, although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised. 
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. Having done all of that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr L, but I hope he will understand why I have come to this conclusion. 
I will note here that Mr Ls representative chose not to submit a response to my provisional 
decision that was tailored to his complaint and the circumstances of his individual sale. 
Instead, it submitted a report commission for another professional representative which is 
titled Generic submissions on behalf of complainants before going on to say in its 
introduction that the submissions are genericand are not for individual complainants
Such a submission is not particularly helpful, and it is not a method through which Mr Ls 
representative can seek to increase the ambit of the complaint via factual generalisations. 
However, as the representative deems this report to be relevant to Mr Ls complaint, I will 
take it into account but only in so far as it discusses points that are of direct relevance to this 
complaint and my provisional decision. 
As set out above and in my provisional decision, I have to take account the relevant law and 
regulations. So, I have set out below the legal and regulatory context that I think is relevant 
to Mr Ls complaint. 
The Legal and Regulatory Context 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006)
Mr L took out a restricted-use fixed sum loan agreement that was regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. As a result, the purchase was and is covered by certain 
protections afforded to Mr L by the CCA  provided the necessary conditions were and are 
met. 
Section 11: Restricted-use credit and unrestricted credit
(1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement - 
(b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor
Section 12: Debtor-creditor-supplier agreements
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
being - 
(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is 
made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of
future arrangements between himself and the supplier
Section 19: Linked transactions
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a 
linked transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the 
principle agreement/2) if which it does not form part if - 
(b) the principle agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principle agreementSection 25: Licence to be a fit person
(2)In determining whether an applicant for licence is a fit person for the purposes of 
this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things) - 
(d) Evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (A) 
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of 
the applicants employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such person, has 
- 
(e) engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether lawful or not). 
(2B) For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the 
OFT may consider to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or 
improper include practices in carrying on of a consumer credit business that 
appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending. 
Section 56: Antecedent negotiations
(1) In this Act antecedent negotiations means any negotiations with the debtor or 
hirer - 
(c) conducted by the supplier in relation to a transaction financed or 
proposed to be financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
within section 12(b) or 
(c), and negotiator means the person by whom negotiations are so 
conducted with the debtor or hirer.
(2) Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall 
be deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent of the creditor 
as well as in his actual capacity
(4) For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin 
when the negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication (including 
communication by advertisement), and to include any representations made by the 
negotiator to the debtor or hirer and any other dealings between them. 
Section 75: Liability of creditor for breaches of supplier
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the 
agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation
or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with
the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor
Section 140A: Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor
and the debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the 
following  
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his
rights under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor
(either before or after the making of the agreement or any related 
agreement). 
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section, the court 
shall have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to
the creditor and matters relating to the debtor). 
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it 
is not appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf
of, or in relation to, an associate or former associate of the creditor as if done 
(or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor. 
(4) A determination may be made under this section in relation to a 
relationship notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended
Section 140B: Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1) An order under this section in connection with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following  
(a) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor, the 
associate or the former associate or to any other person);
(b) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection with 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) reduced or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d) direct the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e) otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or 
on a surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f) alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g) direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons. 
(2) An order under this section may be made in connection with a credit agreement 
only  
(a) on an application made by the debtor or by a surety 
(3) An order under this section may be made notwithstanding that its effect is to place 
on the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, a burden in respect of an 
advantage enjoyed by another person. 
(4) An application under subsection (2)(a) may only be made  (a) in England and Wales, to the county court
(9) If, in any such proceedings, the debtor or a surety alleges that the relationship 
between the creditor and the debtor is unfair to the debtor, it is for the creditor to 
prove to the contrary. 
Section 140C: Interpretation of ss 140A and 140B
(4) References in sections 140A and 140B to an agreement related to a credit 
agreement (the main agreement) are references to  
(b) transaction in relation to the main agreement or to a credit agreement 
within paragraph (a); 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations)
The relevant rules and regulations the supplier in this complaint had to follow were set out in 
the Timeshare Regulations. It is not my role to decide whether the supplier (which is not a 
respondent to this complaint) is liable for any breaches of these regulations. But they are 
relevant to this complaint as they signal the standard of commercial conduct reasonably 
expected of the supplier when acting as the creditors agent in the sale of Mr Ls timeshare 
product. 
The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (the CPUT Regulations)
The CPUT Regulations put in place a regulatory framework to prevent unfair business 
practices in the context of consumer protection. It is only since October 2014 that they 
imposed civil liability for certain breaches  as above, I am not deciding whether the supplier 
is liable for any breaches of these regulations. Instead, they are relevant to this complaint 
when considering Mr Ls claim that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair as they also 
set out the standard expected of the supplier when acting as BPFs agent in marketing and 
selling CLC memberships.
The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (the UTCCR)
These regulations protected consumers against unfair terms in standard term contracts, 
such as CLC Membership terms. 
Resort Development Organisation Code of Conduct 1 January 2010 (the RDO Code)
This code of conduct says it was designed to establish industry best practice standards 
and complement and reinforce all applicable laws. 
The RDO Code is relevant to this complaint when taking into account what I consider was 
good industry practice at the time. 
Regulatory guidance and codes  Granting Credit 
Furthermore, I have considered relevant regulatory guidance and codes relating to 
affordability  specifically when granting credit. Of particular note are the following:
Finance and Leading Association Lending Code (June 2006)OFT General guidance for licensees and applicants on fitness and requirements 
(January 2008)
OFT Irresponsible Lending  OFT guidance for creditors (March 2010, updated 
February 2011)
Relevant case law
In addition to the cases cited by Mr Ls representative, I have considered the following:
The Supreme Courts judgement in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] 
(Plevin) remains the leading case on unfair debtor-creditor relationships. 
The judgement of the Court of Appeal in the case of Scotland & Reast v British Credit 
Trust Limited [2014] gives helpful interpretation of the deemed agency and unfair 
relationship provisions of the CCA.
In Deutsche Bank (Suisse) SA v Khan and others [2013] Hamblen J summarised  at 
paragraph 346  some of the general principles that apply to the application of the 
unfair relationship test. 
It was held by the High Court in Patel v Patel [2009]  that determining whether or not 
the relationship complained of was unfair had to be made having regard to the 
entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination  which was the date of the trial in the case of an existing 
relationship or otherwise the date the relationship ended. 
In Link Financial v Wilson [2014], a timeshare was financed by a restricted-use loan 
and a challenge was launched by the owner under Section 140A. The timeshare had 
been forfeited for non-payment of management charges under a clause that 
stipulated the following:
In the event of the Applicant failing to make any payment due within 14 days of 
being given written notice to that effect by the Vendor Company or on its behalf, the 
Vendor Company may, at the Vendor Companys option, rescind this Agreement 
whereupon all monies paid by the Applicant will be forfeited to the Vendor Company 
and the Vendor Company shall be under no further liability to the Applicant. Time 
shall be of the essence in respect of any payments due from the Applicant under this 
agreement.
The judge held that the term was unfair for the purposes of the UTCCR and that the 
debtor-creditor relationship was unfair  such that the claimant should have been 
relieved from making any further payments under the loan agreement. 
The above represents a non-exhaustive list of my key considerations under DISP 3.6.4 R. 
The claim under s.75 of the CCA
As set out above and in my provisional decision, because of the way The Membership was 
financed, BPF can be held jointly and severally liable under s.75 of the CCA for a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation that Mr L may have against the supplier. 
Mr L didnt submit a s.75 claim to BPF however some of his complaint points are grounded 
in misrepresentation. So, BPF chose to investigate some of his complaint under the provision of s.75. Having done so, it did not find that the product had been misrepresented to 
Mr L or that there had been a breach of contract. 
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought BPFs decision to investigate part of Mr Ls 
claim as a s.75 claim was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I explained that for a claim for misrepresentation to be successful, Mr L would have to 
demonstrate that there was a representation of fact made to him by the supplier, that the 
representation was untrue and that the representation induced him to take out the 
membership. 
Mr L made two key complaint points that could be deemed as falling within a claim for 
misrepresentation. The first, was that he was told he would be able to travel during the 
school holidays. Mr L has told us this was very important to him and influenced his decision 
to enter the contract. But since purchasing The Membership, he says he hasnt been able to 
travel during this time. 
Mr L has not been able to give any detailed recollections to support what he says he was 
told about travelling during the school holidays. But even if I was to find that Mr L was told he 
would be able to use The Membership during the school holidays, this would not lead me to 
conclude the product was misrepresented to him. I say this because I have been provided 
evidence to show Mr L travelled during the UK school holidays on several occasions. So, I 
do not agree with his allegation that this was a false statement of fact or that he has been 
unable to use his membership during this time. 
Mr Ls second complaint point was that he had been told CLC would buy back his points 
should he wish to exit the membership. Again, Mr L has not provided any detail to support 
what was discussed during the point of sale that led him to believe this was a scheme CLC 
offered or how this influenced his decision to enter the contract. As this sale took place in 
person, I am unable to know the specifics of what was verbally discussed. Instead, I must 
weigh Mr Ls testimony, limited as it is, against the other information and evidence that has 
been provided. 
In doing so, I can see Mr L was provided with and signed a document during the sale that 
explained CLC did not run a buy back scheme. And while Mr L has said he found the 
paperwork stage of the sale to have been rushed, this was a one page document and Mr L 
had initialled each of the 17 bullet points to indicate he had read and understood its 
contents. If Mr L had been told CLC ran a buy back scheme and this was an important factor 
for him when deciding whether to go ahead with The Membership, I would have expected 
him to have at least queried why the relevant paperwork contained contradictory statements. 
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded Mr L has shown that he has a valid 
claim for misrepresentation.  
Overall, therefore, while I recognise Mr L and his representative have concerns about the 
way in which The Membership was sold by CLC, for the reasons I have set out above and 
those in my provisional decision, I dont think BPFs investigation and ultimate response to 
Mr Ls claim under s.75 of the CCA was unfair. 
The claim under s.140A of the CCA
Mr Ls representative has raised several points as to why it feels a court would determine the 
relationship between Mr L and BPF to be unfair. Specifically, it has argued:
Mr L was pressured into contracting by CLC;The commission paid was not disclosed, nor was Mr L told commission would be 
paid (in breach of CLCs alleged fiduciary duty); 
Mr L is unable to exit the contract due to increasing maintenance fees which he 
cannot afford to pay.
Was Mr L pressured into the purchase
In the Letter of Claim, Mr Ls representative says he was subjected to a long and high-
pressured sales process which lasted many hours. The Letter goes on to say Mr L was told 
he had to complete the purchase on the day in question and that he was not permitted to 
take time at the end to consider the purchase. 
BPF hasnt disputed that CLCs sales presentations could be lengthy. And in my provisional 
decision I accepted Mr L may have felt worn down by a sales process that went on for 
several hours and is likely to have included sales methods that continually highlighted the 
benefits of the product in response to objections raised. I acknowledged that being told he 
had to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not 
have been available at a later date may also have contributed to Mr Ls feelings that the sale 
and sales environment had an element of pressure. 
I set out that in thinking about whether CLCs actions amounted to a pressured sale such 
that Mr L felt he had no choice but to go ahead, Regulation 7 of the CPR is of assistance. To 
be considered an aggressive commercial practice, it must significantly impair the average 
consumers freedom of choice using harassment, coercion or undue influence such as to 
cause the consumer to buy something they otherwise would not have done. 
Having reconsidered all of the available evidence, and in the absence of any new 
commentary on this point that is specific to Mr L, I am not persuaded there is enough to 
suggest Mr L was harassed, coerced or unduly influenced into this purchase. Nor am I 
persuaded that Mr L purchased The Membership when he simply did not want to. 
Mr L has provided very limited details about the sales process that took place. To allege that 
he was effectively given no choice he would need to have provided details about what was 
said and why he felt this way. He has said the presentation was long and he wasnt provided 
with refreshments, but this isnt the same as not being given a choice. 
Ive considered the information available about how CLC sold its timeshare products and 
trained its staff. Although not specific to Mr Ls sale, I consider this provides some insight 
into how a normal sale would proceed. As I set out in my provisional decision, that there is 
notable emphasis placed on the benefits of the products and the sales representatives are 
encouraged to secure a sale on the day. Staff are also trained on overcoming the key 
objections a customer may make. I acknowledge that all of this may lead to some 
consumers finding it harder to say no to the purchase. However, the material does also 
highlight the need to treat customers fairly and not pressure customers into a purchase.
I explained in my provisional decision that Mr Ls credit agreement details that he had 14 
days to withdraw from the agreement (thereby cancelling the loan). He also had a 14-day 
cooling-off period to cancel the membership agreement. Having reviewed this case again, I 
cant see that Mr L tried to cancel or enquired about cancelling the purchase during the 14-
day cooling-off period or that he let CLC know after the purchase that he had felt pressured. 
It doesnt appear Mr L raised his concerns around the sale until five years later. I find this difficult to reconcile with an allegation that he only purchased the product because he felt he 
was left with no other choice.  
While I accept a lower level of pressure might render the underlying credit agreement unfair, 
given a particular consumers circumstances, I havent seen anything that would suggest 
Mr L was vulnerable or more susceptible to undue pressure. The evidence I have, suggests 
its more likely Mr L chose to take out The Membership as he was interested in the holiday 
benefits it provided, having already taken out a trial membership offering similar benefits. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I do not think there is sufficient evidence to say this 
was a pressured sale or that it is likely a court would find this led to an unfair relationship 
with BPF under s.140A of the CCA. 
Commission 
In its letter to this service, Mr Ls representative argues that commission was paid from BPF 
to CLC without Mr L being informed. It argues this was a breach of the fiduciary duty CLC 
owed Mr L and its likely that the courts would conclude this created an unfair relationship. 
I do not agree that CLC owed Mr L a fiduciary duty. CLC were not acting as agents for Mr L 
but as the supplier of the contractual rights he obtained under The Membership. I am not 
persuaded it was CLCs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give 
Mr L advice or information on that basis. Nor do I believe CLC did anything to give Mr L the 
impression that it was acting on his behalf rather than its own. Instead, CLC was acting to 
sell Mr L one of its products and broker the loan between Mr L and BPF. As a result, Im not 
persuaded by the representatives argument on this point. 
Notwithstanding that I dont think the relationship between CLC and Mr L was as his 
representative describes, its clear the courts may (and have) concluded that the payment of 
undisclosed commission can create an unfair relationship between the parties (see Plevin). 
As I said in my provisional decision, based on the information I have seen, the typical 
amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers like CLC was unlikely to be more than 
10%, if at all1. I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid CLC commission was 
incompatible with its role in the transaction or unexpected. I also think its unlikely such a low 
amount would have affected Mr Ls decision to purchase The Membership. And on that 
basis, I am not persuaded it is likely that a court would find that the non-disclosure and 
payment of commission created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A of the 
CCA given the circumstances of this complaint. 
Given neither party has submitted any comments or evidence specific to Mr L in response to 
my provisional conclusions on this point, I see no reason to depart from them.
The ongoing costs of The Membership and the right to exit
Mr L complains that his annual membership fees keep accruing (at an increasing rate) 
despite his membership being suspended and that he is unable to exit or benefit from it. 
I set out in my provisional decision that Mr L was able to access The Membership until 2016 
when it was suspended due to non-payment. And BPF has shown Mr L was able to go on 
holiday within CLCs portfolio several times. So, I thought Mr Ls comments related 
specifically to when he decided he no longer wanted to continue with The Membership or 
1 Our service can accept information in confidence (so that only an edited version, summary or 
description is disclosed to the other party) where appropriate (DISP 3.5.8 (2)).pay the annual maintenance fees and instead chose to be represented by a professional 
claims handler in 2016 and raise a claim to BPF. 
I explained that Mr Ls membership could be ended (outside the 14-day cooling off period) in 
several ways. The detail on how this happens is spread out across several different 
membership documents and isnt expressed in a particularly clear way. So, I thought it 
unlikely that it was made clear to Mr L, at the point of sale, how he could exit his 
membership, after the 14-day cooling off period had passed. 
I have included an extract of my provisional decision which forms part of my final decision 
below:
The Information Document states:
Your Membership will start on the date shown on your Acquisition Agreement and 
expires automatically on the date specified on the Agreement, or when you no longer 
hold Point Rights, or when the Scheme ends whichever is earlier.
Having reviewed the Acquisition Agreement, it does not set out an end date for Mr Ls 
membership. So, Ive reviewed the other documentation I have available which governs Mr 
Ls membership. This includes:
-Memorandum and Articles of Association (October 2010 and December 2015 
update)
-Deed of Trust
-Scheme Regulations
-Scheme Rules
It is not clear whether Mr L had access to this documentation before he took out his 
membership. But if he did, the combination of these documents adds up to around 40 pages, 
so I think its unlikely Mr L wouldve had the time during the sale to properly read and 
understand these terms. 
Ill address the key provisions which relate to how Mr Ls membership could end or pause, 
and on what basis below. 
Articles of Association (October 2010) 
Article 7 Cessation of Membership
7.1 A Member shall cease to be a Member:
7.1.1 when he ceases to be the registered holder of Point Rights in the Point Rights 
Register; or 
7.1.2 on his death. 
7.2 A Member may at any time within the current year withdraw from the Association 
provided the Member both gives written notice before 1st September of that year to 
the Association and pays all Membership Fees and Management Charges due 
including those for the current year. 
7.3 7.4       Upon the Member ceasing to be a Member, neither he nor any of his successors 
executors, personal representatives, trustees or liquidators shall, have any claim 
upon or interest in or rights to the funds or other property of the Association. 
7.5       The Association shall be entitled to claim from any Member or his estate any 
Management Charges and other sums due from him, together with Interest from the 
date upon which such amounts are due and payable until the date of payment in full. 
Article 7.2 allows a member to withdraw from their membership by providing written notice 
and paying all membership fees due. But the investigator didnt think it was clear whether 
this article should be interpreted as saying that payment of any outstanding fees or charges
is a pre-condition to termination. Or whether, upon giving notice, Mr L could terminate his 
membership with CLC and remain liable to pay any outstanding fees and charges. 
In setting out his analysis, the investigator pointed out that Article 7.5 provides for CLC to 
claim for any management charges and other sums due from the member or his estate, 
suggesting there may still be a liability on a living member after they terminate. In other
words, Article 7, when read as a whole, could be interpreted to allow for termination to occur
even though the management fees and charges have not been paid in full.
The investigator thought that it would be contrary to common sense that a member could be 
deprived of his ability to terminate by the fact of having any amount, however small, 
outstanding when notice to terminate is given. He also thought such an unbalanced rule
would also set a trap for consumers in financial difficulty. He thought it unlikely that the
parties intended to contract on terms that meant the less able a consumer was to meet the 
annual fees and charges, the more difficult it would be for them to relinquish their 
membership. 
So, the investigator concluded that on balance, Article 7.2 should be read as allowing 
Members to terminate their membership by giving notice and remaining liable to pay their 
Membership fees and charges up to and including the full years fees for the year in which
termination takes place. And, under Article 7.5, if those monies were not paid, the
Association could then claim the fees and charges from the member or their estate. 
Article 43 also applies to the termination of The Membership, so our investigator considered 
whether this would assist Mr L in ending his membership:
Article 43. Dissolution of Membership
43.1 The Association shall continue in existence until either:
(a) the year 2078 when a Special Resolution shall be voted on to continue the 
Associations existence for a further term of 80 years (and following that 
successive terms of 80 years) and unless a Resolution is passed (the Founder 
Member and any of its associated companies agreeing not to exercise its vote) 
the Association shall be wound up; or 
(b) a Special Resolution is passed to wind up the Association. 
So, there was also the potential that Mr Ls membership could end in 2078 (if he were to live 
that long) or upon a Special Resolution winding up the Association. The intention of this 
article is to address winding up the Association as a whole. So, our investigator concluded it 
offered no real or practical application for Mr L as an individual member to end his individual 
membership. In light of his interpretation of the applicable terms, the investigator set out that Mr L would 
continue to be a member until the earliest of the following:
1. Giving his notice under Article 7.2;
2. His death; or 
3. The Association being wound up in 2078 or at an alternative date if a Special 
Resolution was passed.
In his assessment, the investigator also highlighted that Article 12  Security was relevant 
to the concerns raised by Mr L. 
Below is an extract of Article 12, as it was at the time Mr L took out his membership in 2011:
 12.1 Each Member shall be deemed to have assigned to the Association by way of 
security all his rights to and arising out of his Point Rights for the due and punctual 
performance by him of his obligations under these Articles.
12.2 Should any debt due from a Member to the Association be due and payable but 
unpaid despite demand for payment, the Association shall be entitled to exercise all 
rights pertaining to the Members Point Rights to the extent necessary to recover 
such debt. More particularly, should a Member:
12.2.1 fail to pay any amount owing to the Association within twenty-eight days 
following the issue of a notice of demand by the Association to the Member to pay 
such amount; or
12.2.2 be in breach of any of his obligations where such breach is capable of being 
remedied and fail to remedy the same within twenty-one days following the issue of a 
notice of demand by the Association to the Member requiring him to remedy the 
breach; or
12.2.3 be in breach of any of his obligations, which breach is not capable of being 
remedied either within the period of notice contemplated above or at all, or

12.2.5 being an individual, go into bankruptcy, enter into any arrangement with his 
creditors or have a receiver or trustee appointed over some or all of his assets or 
become subject to any other form of insolvency proceedings; then the Association or 
Management Company on the Associations behalf shall be entitled, without 
prejudice to any other rights which it may have had subject only to any rights of the 
Vendor Company in terms of an Acquisition Agreement:
12.2.6 to declare all amounts owing by the Member to the Association, whether then 
due and payable or not, as being immediately due and payable and the Member shall 
in such event be liable to make immediate payment of such amounts; and/or 
12.2.7 to obtain possession of the Point Rights Certificate from such Member and to 
remove his name as registered holder of Point Rights from the Point Rights Register 
in which case the provisions of Article 7.1 shall apply, provided that, should a 
Member fail or refuse to deliver the Point Rights Certificate, the Association or 
Management Company on its behalf shall be entitled to cancel the Certificate and to 
issue a new Certificate in replacement thereof; and/or12.2.8 as agent for and on behalf of the Member, without being under an obligation to 
do so, to rent or let Scheme Accommodation during any relevant Time Module by 
redeeming the Members Points for Occupancy Rights, and to collect all rental and 
monies payable under such rent or letting and to set off against or deduct from such 
monies any sums whatsoever that may be owed by the Member to the Association; 
and/or
12.2.9 to cancel or sell or dispose of or realise in any other manner an on such terms 
and conditions as the Board may in its discretion deem fit, the Members Point 
Rights.

Under these terms CLC had quite extensive powers to make any outstanding debts, no 
matter how small, immediately payable, remove a members points and strip them of their 
membership altogether. The course of action taken was at CLCs discretion. So, in addition 
to Mr Ls ability to terminate The Membership as detailed in Articles 7 and 43, CLC could 
unilaterally bring Mr Ls membership to an end by applying Article 12 should he fall into 
arrears. 
However, in December 2015, CLC updated several of its terms. Article 12.2.7 of the Articles 
of Association was updated to the following:
12.2.7 to obtain possession of the Point Right Certificate from such Member and to 
remove his name as registered holder of Point Rights from the Point Rights Register 
in which case the provisions of Article 7.1 shall apply and from then on the Member is 
designated as Suspended and the Membership Register noted accordingly until such 
times as the Member is reinstated to active status by following all of the 
reinstatement procedures set out in the Scheme Regulations, provided that, should a 
Member fail or refuse to deliver the Point Rights Certificate, the Association or 
Management Company on its behalf shall be entitled to cancel the Certificate and to 
issue a new Certificate in replacement thereof; and/or
This introduced the concept of membership suspension for a seemingly indefinite period. 
Various other governing documents were also updated in light of this change:
The Scheme Regulations were amended to the following: 
8. PROCEDURES FOR REINSTATEMENT
The Association (or the Management Company on its behalf) acknowledges that there 
can be various reasons why a Member was unable to comply with the Management 
Charges payment obligations and therefore agrees to keep the status of the Member in 
suspense for an indefinite period from the date of default during which period the 
Member may apply to be reinstated to active status to be able to use Point Rights again 
subject to and provided that the Member;
(a) makes good immediately the sum of arrears and any reinstatement fees as apply at 
that time outstanding on his account;
(b) agrees to continue to be bound by the Articles;
(c) agrees to pay Management Charges from the date of reinstatement onwards;

(d) acknowledges that the Association (or the Management Company on its behalf) was 
under a duty to the other Members, who are paying Management Charges, to use the Point Rights which used to be available for the Member as described previously 
above and confirms that the Member has no claims in respect of this.
Article 4 of the Articles of Association was also updated to the following:
4. MEMBERSHIP / MEMBERSHIP REGISTER / MEMBERSHIP CERTIFICATES
4.4 Should a Member be suspended by the Board (Suspended) the Membership 
Register shall be noted accordingly and the Member shall cease to be entitled to use 
or cast votes in respect of Point Rights, until such a future date as he is reinstated in 
accordance with the procedures on reinstatement in the Scheme Regulations, 
provided that any continuing or other obligation including to the Association arising 
prior to such person entering into suspension as a Member, shall continue to bind the 
Member until such obligation is Extinguished. 
Under the 2015 changes, a default could now result in the suspension of Mr Ls membership 
rather than termination. Our investigator concluded that this change in the rules that govern 
Mr Ls membership (and others like it) was to remedy any potential unfairness of a customer, 
like Mr L, losing all of their membership rights for what could have been a small amount of 
arrears not paid following demand for payment. 
I agree with our investigators conclusion here. A similar term was dealt with in Link Financial 
Limited v Wilson [2014]. In that judgement it was held that such a term was unfair under the 
UTCCR. Had Mr Ls membership been terminated under the operation of the original Article 
12, I would be minded to reach the finding that a court would likely consider the debtor-
creditor relationship to be unfair. However, as this term has been amended, and was not 
applied to Mr Ls membership while it was in force, I am not persuaded that the existence of 
this term in the rules that governed Mr Ls membership prior to December 2015 would likely 
lead a court to find the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair. 
While the amendments in 2015 appear to have improved Mr Ls position, he is concerned 
that maintenance fees and charges continued to apply during suspension. This is not how 
the investigator interpreted the terms. Instead, he thought the effect of Article 4.4 was that 
only liabilities that existed prior to suspension were binding and that no further annual 
charges would apply. Having reviewed Article 4 and the other relevant documentation, I 
agree with the investigators conclusion here. To interpret Article 4 in the opposite would be 
contrary to the purpose of the amendments in 2015 and those set out in the Scheme 
Regulations. 
CLC responded to the investigators analysis of the Articles detailed above and agreed that 
maintenance fees and charges would not continue to accrue once a membership had been 
suspended. But it disagreed with the investigators interpretation of Article 7.2. It has set out 
that it does require the membership fees in the year of terminating to be paid as a 
prerequisite to ending the membership (together with giving notice). 
CLCs preferred interpretation of Article 7.2 appears to me to be contrary to common and 
commercial sense, but I accept it is possible. So, the question I need to determine is whether 
the presence of Article 7.2 in the related agreement suffices to make the debtor-creditor 
relationship under the credit agreement, when taken together with the related contract, unfair 
for the purposes of s.140A. In doing so, it is necessary to look at all the circumstances, 
including the practical implications of Article 7.2 for Mr L. 
I find Article 7.2 to be ambiguous, I am not persuaded it was explained to Mr L before he 
entered the contract and it should be regarded as an important term. If the term operates in 
the way CLC says it does, making termination conditional upon a member repaying any arrears, no matter how small, then this would appear unbalanced and could be unfair. It 
could have the effect of locking in a customer who has difficulty paying into a very long-term 
contract that they need to exit by reason of their inability to pay. And this could lead to a 
court finding that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair. 
However, the main issue here, and key concern for Mr L, was the potential for the rolling up 
of arrears, year on year without the ability to terminate. And I consider this to have been 
negated by the introduction of the suspension regime in December 2015. So, although (on 
CLCs interpretation) it is possible for a customer to be locked into the membership by 
reason of non-payment, that wont result in the rolling up of annual charges. 
CLC has confirmed that annual charges cease to accrue once a membership has been 
suspended and that to terminate a membership, a customer is only liable to pay one years 
fees and charges  applicable to the year of termination. In this particular case, Mr L has had 
his membership suspended by CLC for non-payment of fees and he is not being required to 
pay rolled-up annual charges. The position, as has been explained by CLC, is that Mr Ls 
membership will remain suspended indefinitely unless either party chooses to terminate, and 
that maintenance fees and charges have ceased to fall due since 2016. 
So, even if I were to accept CLCs interpretation of Article 7.2 as correct, Im currently of the 
opinion that the potential for unfairness represented by Article 7.2 in Mr Ls specific case is 
very limited. Particularly when considered alongside the amendments introduced in 2015 
and the practical application of the rules that govern Mr Ls membership. 
Overall, taking everything into account, I am not currently persuaded that the facts of this 
case would lead a court to find that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair  most 
crucially because Mr L is not locked into his membership with fees continuing to accrue and 
compound on an outstanding balance in the way he has argued. Instead, Mr L has the 
option to leave his membership dormant, knowing he will not be pursued by CLC for any 
outstanding maintenance fees or charges.
Having reviewed the complaint in full again, and in the absence of any new information or 
commentary from the parties specific to Mr L, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
conclusions on this element of Mr Ls complaint. 
While not specific to Mr Ls complaint, the report submitted by his representative does 
provide comment on the terms I have discussed above and the maintenance fees more 
generally. As mentioned above, the report is lengthy, generic, and not a helpful submission 
when considering an individuals complaint. However, I have summarised some of the key 
points made in the context of the maintenance fees and charges as well as the rules that 
govern Mr Ls membership below:
The option to withdraw provided for in clause 7.2 was not given any publicity by CLC 
and was unknown to borrowers. As the provision was unknown, it can be ignored for 
the purposes of determining the fairness or reasonableness of the initial transaction. 
Separately, this clause is of little benefit to a consumer in financial distress and it only 
mitigates the liability for maintenance charges. If exercised, the premium paid for the 
product is lost. 
Clause 12.5 imposes a liability for interest and the legal costs incurred in the 
recovery of sums due. This is widely worded, with no qualification over the amount or 
costs which might be recoverable. This falls within para 1(e) Sch2 UTCCR.
The maintenance fee provisions are very widely drafted and could embrace any and 
all charges with no effective means of independent challenge.The Key Information document is opaque and does not accurately or clearly describe 
the liabilities which the borrowers enter when purchasing or the risks and conflict of 
interest in arranging the maintenance fee.
The borrowers liability to pay existing and additional maintenance over the long term 
is not in plain and intelligible language.
The documents do not make it clear to the consumer that the renumeration of the 
maintenance company or its delegates could be increased without any defined or 
specific criteria in the contractual documentation.
The reserve fund is an open-ended commitment and shortfalls from previous years 
rolled up. These provisions create a significant imbalance between the parties and 
are contrary to the requirement of good faith. 
Information was not provided in good time to make an informed decision which is a 
breach of regulation 12(4) of the 2010 regulations. Taken with the various unfair 
terms and examples of unfair pressure, this breach points to the conclusion that the 
contractual documents and method of sale created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
I accept that the method of calculation of the maintenance fees, including their amount and 
the scope of what may fall within them is inscrutable to members who do not appear to have 
any say over the matter. And the way in which the fees are calculated has a compounding 
effect given the long-term nature of the contract. This could undoubtedly expose a consumer 
to arbitrary and unwarranted maintenance fees over which they have no say. I also agree, as 
I set out in my provisional decision, that the documentation is unclear and it is unlikely that 
Mr L had the chance to read and digest all of the rules that govern his membership before 
agreeing to purchase. 
However, while the fees did rise each year, I havent seen any evidence that Mr L has been 
exposed to large and unexpected charges by virtue of the special management charge or 
the core maintenance charge itself. And should Mr L have thought the charges were 
becoming unreasonable or unaffordable for him, he could exit his membership at any time, 
by paying the fee that fell due on the year of exit. As this is a non-fractional product, Mr L 
would not be giving up any interest in property upon exiting, just his right to holidays.
The report submitted by Mr Ls representative suggests that this analysis doesnt take into 
account that, by exiting The Membership, the consumer would lose the premium they paid 
for the product in the first place. I am not sure I agree with the description of losing the 
premium as this suggests Mr L had an expectation that he would get back this back at some 
stage. 
In agreeing to join The Membership, Mr L agreed to pay the premium, which essentially 
operated as a joining fee to join a membership that entitled him to holiday within CLCs 
portfolio of resorts, subject to him paying his annual maintenance fees and charges. If he no 
longer wished to be a CLC member, he could choose to leave. And I do not think its 
reasonable to suggest Mr L thought, after having benefitted from the membership for several 
years, that he would be entitled to his premium being returned if he chose this course of 
action. 
I note the comments regarding breaches of regulation 12 and the suggestion of terms falling 
foul of the UTCCR and accept there may well have been such breaches and that there is potential for the terms to be operated unfairly which may in turn lead to an unfair debtor 
creditor relationship. But I do not need to make a finding on that in this case because, from 
the evidence Ive been provided with, it does not appear as though the terms have been 
operated unfairly against Mr L to date. 
I accept its possible the terms could be operated unfairly in the future. But CLC has told us it 
has not and will not pursue Mr L for maintenance fees. It has also confirmed that while his 
account is suspended, he is not exposed to or liable to pay any additional maintenance fees 
unless he chooses to reinstate his membership. 
Taking everything into account, I do not consider it likely a court would find there to be an 
unfair relationship on the facts of this case as they currently stand. So, I do not think BPF 
acted unfairly in turning down the s.140A claim on this basis and will not be instructing it to 
compensate Mr L.
Unaffordable lending complaint 
Mr L, together with his representative, argue that the loan was unaffordable. Specifically, 
theyve said BPF didnt complete proper checks before agreeing to lend and that perfunctory 
checks were not enough.
I have limited information about what checks were completed. BPF has said Mr L had a 
salary of £54,000 which it deemed was sufficient to discharge the loan and that he met its 
lending criteria, but there is limited information on what additional details may have been 
gathered. 
Even if I were to accept that BPF hadnt completed proportionate checks before agreeing to 
lend, to uphold this aspect of Mr Ls complaint, I would still need to be satisfied that the loan 
was unaffordable for him (and that proportionate checks would have uncovered this). 
Mr L hasnt provided any information to demonstrate that the loan was unaffordable for him 
when he took it out or why he says his financial circumstances were such that he should not 
have been granted the loan. Without any evidence, I do not uphold this element of Mr Ls 
complaint. 
Mr L also argued the interest charged on the loan wasnt made clear to him. However, 
looking at his loan agreement (which he signed) I think the amount of interest charged was 
detailed clearly. 
It is also important to highlight that an irresponsible lending complaint could also be 
considered under a s.140A CCA claim. If the lending was unaffordable, I think its possible 
the courts could conclude this gives rise to an unfair relationship. However, as detailed 
above, I am not persuaded the lending was unaffordable for Mr L. 
Breaches of EU Law
In The Letter of claim, Mr Ls representative alleges BPF has breached EU law and that this 
is a ground for finding an unfair relationship existed. But neither Mr L nor his representative 
have set out what EU laws they think BPF has breached or why they consider this to have 
made the relationship between Mr L and BPF unfair. 
I have considered everything all parties have said in relation to this complaint, and having 
done so, I havent seen any other circumstances which I think would lead a court to conclude 
there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship in this case. Conclusion 
To summarise, I have reached the following conclusions:
Im satisfied BPF were right to consider some of Mr Ls complaint points under s.75 
of the CCA. 
I am not persuaded The Membership was misrepresented to Mr L, so I think BPFs 
decision not to uphold a s.75 claim on Mr Ls behalf was fair. 
I am not persuaded Mr L purchased The Membership because he was pressured to 
do so. Instead, I think it more likely that Mr L went ahead with this purchase because 
he was interested in taking out the product.
In the event that commission was paid, I dont think that it was at a level which was 
high enough for the courts to conclude there was an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
I accept there is a potential for the terms to be operated unfairly against Mr L in the 
future, but as it stands at the date of this decision, I dont think the practical 
application of the associated contract terms in relation to on-going fees and 
terminating/suspending The Membership in Mr Ls case has led to an unfairness to 
such an extent that its likely the courts would deem the debtor-creditor relationship to 
be unfair.
I am not persuaded the loan was unaffordable for Mr L and I think the interest 
payable on the loan was set out clearly on the loan agreement.
I have not seen any evidence to suggest BPF both breached EU law and that in turn, 
this led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman