DRN-3362754
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt allow them to take a fixed rate on 
their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with Santander in around 2008. They borrowed 
around £550,000  around £65,000 was on repayment terms and the rest on interest only. 
Mr and Mrs M took a series of fixed rates that ran until 2013. At that point, the mortgage 
reverted to Santanders standard variable rate (SVR).
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs M have experienced financial difficulty. Their mortgage began to 
fall into arrears from 2009, and the arrears have built up over the years. When the mortgage 
reverted to the SVR in 2013, it was £10,000 in arrears, peaking at £60,000 in 2019. By early 
2021, the arrears were around £55,000.
Mr and Mrs M have asked Santander for a new interest rate over the years, but Santander 
has refused to give them a new rate because of the arrears. But in November 2020 it agreed 
to move them to the follow on rate (FOR), a different reversion rate which tracks the Bank of 
England base rate and is lower than the SVR. The FOR took effect from 1 December 2020. 
Mr and Mrs M complained. They didnt think theyd been treated fairly. They thought that 
keeping them on the SVR between 2013 and 2020 meant that theyd been made to pay 
much more interest  which was why they were in arrears. They said that Santander 
shouldnt have refused them lower interest rates.
Following our involvement, Santander agreed to backdate the FOR to when Mr and Mrs M 
asked for a rate after it first became available in 2018, and to re-work the mortgage 
accordingly. Our investigator thought that was fair, but he didnt think it was unreasonable 
that Santander had refused Mr and Mrs M new fixed interest rates.
Mr and Mrs M accepted that, but they also wanted Santander to pay them £5,000 
compensation for the distress caused by having to make higher payments and its contact 
with them at what was a difficult time. As no agreement could be reached, the case came to 
me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to comment on my thinking. I said:
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr and Mrs M have faced in recent years  I can see 
theyve had a combination of financial, personal and health issues, and its clear theyve had 
a far from easy time.
Unfortunately, as a result of their difficulties I can see that the mortgage has been in very 
substantial arrears for a very long time.
Mr M has been in regular contact with Santander in recent years, explaining his situation. I 
can see that he told it he was experiencing cashflow problems with his self-employment 
work. At various times between 2016 and 2019, he told Santander he was expecting 
imminent payments ranging from £45,000 to £750,000 which he would use to clear the 
arrears.
However, these payments never became available, though from time to time Mr and Mrs M 
were able to pay smaller lump sums of £6,000 or so. Throughout this time, they also missed 
monthly payments, or were unable to pay the full payment each month. While the level of 
arrears sometimes went down, the overall trend was for the arrears to increase  peaking at 
£60,000 (24 monthly payments) in early 2019.
In 2019, Santander took court action to recover the mortgage, and a payment arrangement 
was agreed in early 2020. But then the coronavirus pandemic hit, and Mr M faced a 
significant drop in his income. Mr and Mrs M took a six month payment deferral. In 
March 2020, Santander offered to put Mr and Mrs M on the FOR, but they refused because 
they wanted a fixed rate, though they agreed to the FOR later that year and it took effect 
from December 2020.
I dont think it would be fair to expect Santander to have put Mr and Mrs M on a fixed interest 
rate, as they wanted.
Santander says that customers in arrears are not eligible for fixed rates, so no rate was 
available to Mr and Mrs M. That is indeed its policy. Thats not the end of the matter though - 
I would still expect it to consider offering a rate where doing so would be a fair way of helping 
a borrower experiencing difficulties, despite its policy.
Im not persuaded that this is such a case, though. Given the difficulties Mr and Mrs M have 
faced over the years, while a new rate would have lowered their payments, it wouldnt have 
made the mortgage affordable. So a new rate would not have solved the underlying problem. 
And while a rate lowers the monthly payments, there are downsides too. A fixed rate 
includes an early repayment charge (ERC) which can be substantial  up to 5% of the 
mortgage balance. And theres often a fee associated with taking a rate.
Throughout the time up to 2019, the arrears were steadily increasing. Santander was 
considering whether to take legal action, and did so in 2019. If the property had been 
repossessed, the mortgage would be brought to an end  incurring the ERC.
And if Mr and Mrs M had decided the mortgage was no longer sustainable and sold their 
property voluntarily, again the ERC would have been applied.
Also, throughout this period, Mr M was regularly promising Santander that he would make 
large lump sum overpayments. While he never did so, if he had paid more than 10% of the 
balance they would also incur an ERC.
While we now know with hindsight that Santander did not repossess the property, 
Mr and Mrs M did not sell it and Mr M did not make any large lump sum payments, none of 
that could have been known at the time.
Based on what was known at the time, while a new rate would have reduced the monthly 
payments, it wouldnt have made the mortgage fully affordable. And while the arrears were 
still substantial, there was an increased risk of the mortgage coming to an end one way or 
the other  and Mr Ms plan to clear the arrears was a large lump sum overpayment.While none of those things were the reason Santander gave at the time  it just relied on its 
policy that Mr and Mrs M werent eligible for a rate  they are in my view highly relevant to 
the question of whether it would have been fair to expect Santander to give Mr and Mrs M a 
rate notwithstanding the policy. Ive thought about this carefully, and Im satisfied that it 
wasnt unfair for Santander to refuse Mr and Mrs M a new fixed rate.
However, Santander introduced a new reversion rate  the FOR  in early 2018. The FOR 
was lower than the SVR that Mr and Mrs M were on. It didnt come with any of the 
downsides of a fixed rate  such as an arrangement fee or an ERC.
Santander has offered to put Mr and Mrs M back in the position they would have been in had 
they been offered the FOR from December 2018, rather than December 2020 when they 
actually took it.
But I dont think this quite goes far enough. The FOR was available from early 2018. I dont 
think it was fair that it wasnt available at this time to customers in arrears  such as 
Mr and Mrs M  who would therefore have to pay a higher reversion rate than customers not 
in arrears, who were eligible for the FOR.
I can see from the contact notes that there was no contact between Mr and Mrs M and 
Santander between January and May 2018, and no payments made. But in May 2018, there 
were discussions between Santander and Mr M about their finances and ability to make 
payments. I think this would have been an opportunity for Santander to have advised Mr and 
Mrs M about the existence of the FOR, and to have put their mortgage on it  reducing the 
interest rate and their monthly payments.
I think a fair resolution to this complaint is for Santander to rework Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
as if they had been offered the FOR with effect from 1 June 2018. It will need to re-calculate 
the interest rate and the monthly payments since then accordingly. Any savings and 
overpayments that result should be used to reduce the outstanding arrears on the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M say they also want Santander to pay them £5,000 compensation for the 
distress caused. But I dont think it would be fair to award this. I dont think the contact 
between Santander and Mr and Mrs M was excessive between 2018 and 2020  taking into 
account the state of the mortgage at this time. And while I dont doubt this was a very 
stressful time for them, I think that was due to their wider circumstances which caused their 
financial difficulties, rather than anything Santander did.
Had they been on the FOR, their contractual monthly payments would have been lower. But 
Im not persuaded this means they would have paid less. Where they didnt make any 
payments, that wouldnt have changed. And where they did make payments, they would still 
have been expected to pay as much as they could to reduce the arrears. But being on the 
FOR would have meant that more of what they paid could have gone to reducing the 
arrears.
Overall, therefore, while Im satisfied that being on the FOR at an earlier stage would have 
reduced the arrears on the mortgage, Im not persuaded that it would have substantially 
altered what Mr and Mrs M needed to pay each month, or that their experience of dealing 
with their financial difficulties would have been substantially different.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M said they were happy that the FOR would be backdated. But they thought that 
Santander should also compensate them. They said that the monthly repayments were 
crippling, and the level of the payments caused them significant distress. Had the interest rate been lower, that would have made things much easier for them  not least because they 
could potentially have reduced the arrears. 
Santander did not have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But as I 
explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs M were eligible for a new interest rate  and that it was 
fair that Santander didnt offer them one. It should have put them on the FOR from 2018, and 
thats why Ive said it should re-work their mortgage as if that had happened. 
However, I dont think this was the cause or source of Mr and Mrs Ms problems. They have 
been in very significant arrears for many years  and even during the period from 2018 there 
were months when they made no payment at all. As I said in my provisional decision, the 
FOR wouldnt have made any difference in those months; they still wouldnt have made a 
payment. 
And where they were able to pay, Mr and Mrs M would always have needed to pay whatever 
they could afford to reduce the arrears  so in practice the amount they actually paid each 
month would have been much the same, its just that more of it could have gone to the 
arrears. Re-working the account corrects that.
Nor do I think that Santanders contact with them was excessive or unreasonable, given the 
state of their mortgage account at the time.
Overall, therefore, I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to compensate 
Mr and Mrs M in addition to re-working their mortgage balance. The only place where it went 
wrong was in not applying the FOR sooner, and that did not materially affect the amount 
Mr and Mrs M would have paid each month. The distress and upset they experienced having 
to find those payments was ultimately due to their financial difficulties, not Santanders 
actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to re-work Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage so that it is as if it had been on the 
follow on rate from 1 June 2018. 
Any savings and overpayments that result in respect of each months payments should be 
used to reduce the arrears from that month forward.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman