DRN-3216361
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that First Data Europe Limited didnt do enough to recover a 
fraudulent payment.
What happened
J says that a customer was able to alter the amount of a credit card payment from £75 to 
£750. J agreed to make a refund. But this was processed to a different card. Although J 
contacted First Data within minutes and says it was told nothing would go through, it had lost 
the money as the cards had been used by a fraudster.
First Data said it wasnt responsible for the loss. The terms and conditions of its agreement 
with J set out that any refund should be made to the card a payment came from. As J hadnt 
done so it had lost £750.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and £750 credited to J together 
with any associated costs or charges relating to this payment. He said he had asked First 
Data more than once for recordings of the calls it had with J and for an explanation of the 
actions it had taken when it was told about the fraud. It hadnt responded. He found the 
testimony given on behalf of J persuasive. And he thought that action could have been taken 
to address the fraud and recover the money in the time before the transaction was 
processed.
First Data didnt respond and so the case was passed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J has explained what happened in its shop. And those involved carried out a sophisticated 
fraud. The receipts for the payment and refund were checked within about ten minutes. And 
J says it called First Data. I can see call notes showing that this case was opened that day 
and records of further contact with J. As our investigator identified these dont set out what 
action was taken, or the detail of what J was told.
I consider First Data has now had a reasonable opportunity to explain its case and provide 
any more evidence. I accept that the terms and conditions set out that J would ultimately be 
responsible for a loss caused by a refund made to a different card. Im thinking too about 
what is fair and reasonable and accept J did everything it could to bring this to First Datas 
attention. First Data hasnt shown it took any action. I consider it most likely that had it done 
so this refund could have been stopped once fraud had been identified. So, I agree that the 
money should be returned to J.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require First Data Europe Limited to credit J 
with £750 plus any associated costs or charges relating to this payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman