DRN-1362639
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the offer InterPartner Assistance UK (IPA) made after it damaged his 
boiler during a repair visit under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr P reported to IPA that his boiler was displaying a fault message. IPA sent out an engineer 
who said that the boiler needed a new gas valve. But, while examining the boiler, the 
engineer broke a screw which got stuck in the heat exchanger. He wasnt able to get the 
screw out so the heat exchanger needed to be replaced. At this point, IPA decided the boiler 
was beyond economical repair.
Mr P asked his own engineer to look at his boiler. The engineer reported that the fault was 
with a blockage in another part of the boiler and IPAs engineer shouldnt have needed to do 
anything with the parts that he damaged. Mr Ps engineer cleared the blockage and the 
boiler started working. However, because of the hole left by the broken screw, the boiler 
leaked carbon monoxide.
Mr Ps engineer said the boiler hadnt been disconnected from the gas mains after the screw 
was broken, leaving it in a dangerous position. He disconnected it, which left Mr P without 
heating and hot water for two weeks.
As a resolution to his complaint, Mr P would like IPA to pay for his new boiler and 
compensation for the two weeks he was without heating and hot water.
IPA acknowledged some of its errors and offered Mr P £250 compensation for the two 
weeks without heating and hot water, plus the amount it wouldve cost it to replace the heat 
exchanger. He rejected its offer.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. She wasnt persuaded that IPAs engineer had 
disconnected the boiler and IPA admitted he hadnt put an At Risk sticker on it. Our 
investigator didnt think the screw was broken due to wear and tear so it was more likely that 
IPAs engineer had caused the damage. She also thought that IPA hadnt correctly followed 
the manufacturers process for determining the cause of the fault. 
In recognition of the impact on Mr P, our investigator thought that IPA should pay the cost of 
the new boiler and increase its offer of compensation from £250 to £500.
IPA didnt agree. It had already acknowledged that its engineer accidentally broke the screw 
causing the damage. Thats why it offered to pay £490.47, which was the cost of a new heat 
exchanger. IPA also accepted its actions caused Mr P to be without heating and hot water 
which is why it offered £250 compensation. However, IPA said that if it had been given the 
opportunity to replace the heat exchanger, the boiler wouldve been restored to working 
condition. For that reason, IPA thinks its original offer was appropriate.   
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments and Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Mr P and IPA agree that its engineer accidentally broke a screw which then damaged 
the heat exchanger beyond repair. They also agree that this was the reason Mr P was 
without heating and hot water for two weeks. What remains for me to decide is whether IPA 
dealt with Mr Ps complaint about these issues fairly, and whether its reasonable for IPA to 
contribute to the cost of the new boiler.
The first point to consider is whether the boiler needed to be replaced or whether it couldve 
been fixed. I see that IPA told Mr P his boiler was beyond economical repair, meaning the 
boiler wasnt worth what it would cost to repair. The estimated repair cost was just over 
£1000 and the new boiler cost £1950, so I can see why IPA didnt think it would be worth 
repairing the old boiler. Mr Ps engineer found and repaired the fault. But the boiler couldnt 
be used because the damage caused by IPAs engineer meant carbon monoxide would leak 
out. 
So, both parties agree that the boiler couldve been repaired  the difference is whether it 
was economically worthwhile. IPA clearly told Mr P on at least two occasions that it wasnt 
so it was reasonable that he had the boiler replaced. As IPA was responsible for causing the 
most significant cost of any possible repair, Im satisfied that its fair to ask it to pay at least 
what it wouldve cost to repair. Ive seen that IPA offered a sum equivalent to the cost of 
replacing the parts it damaged. However, it doesnt include the cost of the repair it originally 
thought needed doing  a gas valve replacement  or the one which it later agreed wouldve 
been the actual fault. So the cost of repair is likely to be greater than the £1000 it estimated.
If IPAs engineer had correctly diagnosed the fault and not worked on the part which he then 
damaged, the boiler couldve been repaired and wouldnt have needed replacing. In light of 
this, and the fact that IPA declared the boiler beyond economical repair, Im satisfied that Mr 
P incurred the cost of a new boiler as a direct result of IPAs actions. I think its fair for IPA to 
pay the full cost of the new boiler.
IPA offered £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator suggested that 
£500 is a more appropriate amount and I agree. Not only was Mr P without heating and hot 
water for two weeks, but he mustve lost faith in the competence of the engineer and, 
subsequently, the service hed paid for. He was given inconsistent information about whether 
his boiler could be repaired and he had to employ the service of another engineer when his 
cover shouldve been sufficient to address the matter. While its not clear whether the 
engineer properly disconnected the boiler, or followed the manufacturers process correctly, 
both parties agree that he didnt attach an At Risk notice to the boiler, which I accept 
wouldve caused Mr P to distrust the service being provided. 
Mr P could reasonably expect home emergency cover to minimise any loss or 
inconvenience, yet on this occasion it caused him significantly more inconvenience beyond 
the damage caused. I think its reasonable for IPA to pay Mr P £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter caused him. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that InterPartner Assistance UK is required 
to:
pay Mr P £1950 to cover the full cost of a new boiler, and
pay him £500 by way of apology for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman