DRN-2512712
The complaint
Mr Rs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Halifax Building
Society, referred to as Lloyds.
Although Lloyds upheld the complaint, the CMCs unhappy about the proposed redress.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 14 December 2020, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. I said:
Im going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Lloyds says Im not satisfied that the redress methodology is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Whilst its fair to say certain questions were asked of Mr R to arrive at the conclusion that he
was a medium risk investor, Im uncertain as to Lloyds reasoning behind this conclusion. In
the circumstances Im not persuaded this was an accurate assessment of his attitude to risk.
However, I also dont think the FTSE Private Investor Balanced Index is a reasonable
benchmark for calculating redress. Im mindful it was recorded that Mr R would accept
reduced growth potential for his original investment in exchange for an element of future
protection to his capital. 
That said, I agree with the CMC that because Mr R wanted to achieve a better return than a
deposit account, the Bank of England Bond Rate isnt a suitable bench mark in the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that he was willing to take some risk for better returns.
I note Mr R was initially advised to invest £20,000 but decided to invest only £10,000 of his
available capital, and that he had enough risk to capital with his shares and investment bond
and probably didnt want more risk of a similar nature.
I note Lloyds says that Mr R had an ISA with another provider and that its not clear if hed
contributed to it that year. Whilst this was an option, I cant say with certainty what Mr R
wouldve done in the alternative, so I dont think comparing his investment returns with that
of his ISA is reasonable in the circumstances. I note the following was recorded in the
financial report, so the adviser was aware that he hadnt contributed to his ISA that tax
year:
we have discussed your intentions with regards to ISAs and have confirmed that you
have not contributed to a stocks and shares ISA this tax year.
So, in the circumstances, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to
uphold this complaint, and say that Lloyds should calculate redress based on the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for one half of the investment; and average rate
from fixed rate bonds for the other half.
Im mindful the CMC says Mr R shouldnt have been advised to invest in a single fund and
that the proposed redress by Lloyds doesnt address the issue of a lack of diversification. As
Im upholding the complaint I dont think I need to address this any further.
Lloyds responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
The CMC also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said: 
I accept that Mr R wanted to achieve a better return than a deposit account  so the 
Bank of England Bond Rate isnt a suitable bench mark in the circumstances.
However, I also said that Lloyds should calculate redress based on the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for one half of the investment; and 
average rate from fixed rate bonds for the other half, which is a contradiction. 
If the Bank of England Bond Rate isn't a suitable benchmark  then it isn't suitable for 
half of the investment. 
If I dont consider the FTSE Private Investors Balanced Index to be a suitable 
benchmark, then I should use the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index 
(which has an asset allocation suitable for a cautious investor) and is the appropriate 
benchmark for all of the investment, not half.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
I dont consider that any material new points have been raised, and the key points remain 
the same, and have been considered by me in my provisional decision. In other words, Im 
satisfied that Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision. 
 
I dont agree with the CMC that theres a contradiction in what Ive said by way of a 
reasonable redress benchmark.  
On the contrary, if the Bank of England Bond Rate isn't a suitable benchmark for the entire 
investment  which I believe it isnt  this doesnt automatically mean that it isnt suitable for 
any part of the investment. 
In other words, I still think its suitable for calculating redress applying it to a (smaller) portion 
of the investment, alongside a different benchmark for the balance of the investment. 
I appreciate the CMC says that if I dont consider the FTSE Private Investors Balanced Index 
to be a suitable benchmark  which I dont  then the FTSE Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index is the appropriate benchmark for all the investment, not half of it. 
Despite what the CMC says, I see no reason to depart from our usual approach in these 
circumstances for a consumer who is willing to take some risk for better returns, and Im 
unable to safely say what he wouldve done in the alternative. 
It doesnt mean that Mr R wouldve invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% 
in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R couldve obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude. 
Putting things right
So, in the circumstances I think Lloyds should calculate redress based on the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for one half of the investment; and average rate 
from fixed rate bonds for the other half.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Halifax Building Society, referred to as Lloyds, should 
calculate redress using the benchmark as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman