DRN-3264100
The complaint
Mr H complains about the time taken to transfer his Fund and Share account and his stocks 
and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
Mr H says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) delayed the 
transfer of the stock in his account, which resulted in him paying more in charges as he says 
the management and fund charges for the new provider were lower.
Mr H says he waited to see how the Fund and Share transfers were administered by 
Hargreaves before committing to transferring his stocks and shares ISA. He says he was 
cautious because it was a volatile market. So, Mr H says because Hargreaves took too long 
with the transfer of his Fund and Share account, this caused a knock-on delay to his ISA 
transfer.  Mr H says the delays caused him to incur increased costs within those 
investments. 
What happened
Mr H wished to transfer his investments from HL to another provider, this included stock in a 
Fund and Share account and a stocks and shares ISA.
On 15 January 2020 Hargreaves received an information request for Mr Hs Fund and Share  
account.
On 21 January 2020 Hargreaves replied to that request.
On 23 January 2020 Hargreaves received an acceptance from the new provider, via an 
electronic system, accepting the in-specie (stock) transfer of one fund.
On 4 February that same firm contacted Hargreaves by telephone and indicated that Mr H 
had changed his instructions.  
Following that phone call, Hargreaves rejected the acceptance from the new provider  
because of the change of instructions. 
On 21 February 2020 Hargreaves received a second acceptance from the new provider for a 
stock transfer of seven funds from Mr Hs Fund and Share account, including the single fund 
from the initial transfer request. 
By 19 March 2020 the majority of the funds had been transferred. One remaining fund was 
transferred on 4 May 2020.  
On 9 April 2020  Hargreaves received an information request for a second transfer from     
Mr Hs Fund and Share account. 
Hargreaves responded to the information request on 8 May 2020 and the acceptance for the 
transfer was received from the new provider on 10 May 2020. 
The majority of the stock was transferred on 26 May 2020 and the last stock transfer took 
place on 12 June 2020. 
Mr H complained to Hargreaves about the delay in transferring his Fund and Share account 
and his stocks and shares ISA. 
Hargreaves upheld Mr Hs complaint in respect of the transfer of stocks from his Fund and 
Share account. It apologised for the delay and offered compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr H.  It noted that because it was a stock transfer there had been no investment 
loss as his stock had remained invested. 
Hargreaves said that since the transfer had been initiated fees of £97.93 had been applied to 
Mr Hs Fund and Share account and so it offered compensation of £150. It said that money 
would be credited to his bank account. 
Hargreaves said the ISA transfer had been carried out within the normal time frame for this 
type of investment.  
Mr H disagreed with the amount of compensation offered by Hargreaves. He said he had 
incurred higher fees as a result of the time taken to carry out the transfers. 
Mr H said his total annual charges on these investments, to the end of April, were £7,608 
and so he said his weekly charges were £146. He said the whole transfer process had been 
delayed by eight weeks due to the slow transfer of the stock in the Funds & Share account, 
so he estimated he had been overcharged by £1,168 ( 8 x £146). Mr H also said he had paid 
excess fees on investments purchased using his ISA, between March and June 2020, as 
these were made through Hargreaves instead of his new provider. Mr H estimated these 
fees to be about £50, making a total of £1,218. He noted this total didnt include any 
compensation for the inconvenience he had incurred as a result.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and felt that the compensation offered by 
Hargreaves was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He explained that government 
guidance stated non-cash ISAs should be transferred within 30 calendar days and he was 
satisfied that the ISA transfer had taken place within that time. 
The investigator said there was no prescribed time limit for non-ISA accounts such as the 
Fund and Share account, but we would look to see whether the transfer was carried out 
within a reasonable timeframe, taking into account the circumstances. 
The investigator considered the chain of events for the two Fund and Share account 
transfers and the time taken at each stage. He noted that Hargreaves would need to receive 
an acceptance from the new provider before transferring any stocks. So, the initial 
information request wasnt sufficient to trigger the transfer.  
The investigator noted that Hargreaves had accepted that the second transfer took longer 
than it shouldve done, and it had offered £150 compensation. He took into account that this 
was made up of the fees charged over the period since the transfer started and about £52 
for the inconvenience caused to Mr H. The investigator considered that sum to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator considered Mr Hs comments that he had waited to see how the Fund and 
Share account transfers progressed before initiating the transfer of his stocks and shares 
ISA. He noted Mr H has said this had delayed his ISA transfer. 
The investigator thought as it was Mr Hs decision to wait before starting his ISA transfer, 
Hargreaves wasnt responsible for any delay as a result. The investigator also said that we 
would expect consumers to take steps to try to minimise their losses and as Mr H had 
expressed concern about higher fees, the investigator wouldve expected him to start the 
transfer process more promptly.  
Hargreaves then provided some further amended information on the fees charged to Mr Hs 
Fund and Share account between the start of the first transfer request to June 2020 and 
offered additional compensation. It said the fees totalled £154.72 and it agreed to refund that 
sum.    
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and the amount of compensation offered. 
He supplied some information about the fund fees applied by Hargreaves and his new 
provider and said that the new providers fees were lower. As no agreement could be reached Mr Hs complaint was referred to me for review. 
We asked Hargreaves for further information about the applicable costs and fees on the 
stock that was transferred from the Fund and Share account, and we sent that information to 
Mr H. 
In response Mr H provided some further information about the fees charged by his new 
provider and reiterated his view that these were lower than those charged by Hargreaves. 
He also pointed out that his new provider didnt charge management fees. Mr H included 
some online comments from other investors regarding the level of charges applied by 
Hargreaves. He said it was well-known that Hargreaves charges were higher than those 
applied by his new provider. 
Mr H also said he couldnt reconcile the charges information provided by Hargreaves with 
the information on his quarterly investment reports, which he provided. 
Mr H noted that he hadnt been able to find the 21 January 2020 letter within his records but 
said, in any event, he felt it was of minimal importance. 
Mr H also said that his new provider had sent chaser emails to Hargreaves throughout the 
transfer process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Mr H was looking to transfer his Fund and Share Account and Stocks and Shares 
ISA to a new provider. 
As the investigator has described, this process started with the new provider asking the 
existing provider for information about the investments held. When it had received that 
information, the new provider would accept the transfer and the outgoing business, in this 
case Hargreaves, would then transfer the funds.
There is government guidance that indicates a transfer of a stocks and shares ISA should 
take place within 30 calendar days. However, there is no set timeframe in the guidance for 
other investments, such as the Fund and Share account. I also note the terms and 
conditions applicable to the Fund and Share account, set out on Hargreaves website,  do 
not give a time frame for the completion of stock transfers from Fund and Share Accounts. 
However, Hargreaves has provided a template copy of the correspondence it sends to an 
account holder when it receives a request for information from a Fund and Share account. 
The letter says:
What happens during the transfer?
Stock - Transferring stock can take up to 6 weeks. Sometimes it can take longer as were 
reliant on your new provider and the managers of any funds you may hold.
It also explained that once it received confirmation from the new provider, Mr H wouldnt be 
able to trade online but he would be able to contact Hargreaves by telephone and it would 
trade for him and apply online rates.
Hargreaves says that letter was sent to Mr H on 21 January 2020 and I am satisfied on 
balance that it informed Mr H that this type of transfer, of stock, may take up to six weeks 
and explained it was reliant on third parties which could impact the time taken. 
First transfer   
The first transfer was from one of Mr Hs Fund and Share Accounts. I can see the initial 
acceptance received by Hargreaves 23 January 2020 referred to only one fund (Invesco 
High Income). So, the new provider was only asking Hargreaves to transfer that one fund.Hargreaves has provided file records which show that it then received a telephone call on 4 
February 2020, indicating that Mr Hs instructions had changed and that a new transfer 
request would follow shortly. I consider this is supported by the fact a second acceptance 
was received by Hargreaves on 21 February but this time the acceptance related to seven 
holdings, instead of one. So, this second acceptance included several other funds. 
I am satisfied on balance therefore that the instructions from the new provider, which would 
have been sent on Mr Hs behalf, changed to include additional funds.
The request received on 21 February was actioned by Hargreaves with the funds being 
transferred in the main by 19 March 2020, which is nearly four weeks after the acceptance 
on 21 February.  One remaining fund was transferred on 4 May 2020. As Hargreaves was 
reliant on different fund managers, I dont think it is unreasonable that one of the funds took 
longer. 
In the main, I consider the transfer took place within the estimated six weeks. So, I dont 
think there was any unnecessary or avoidable delay by Hargreaves because it transferred 
the stocks within the estimated timeframe it had outlined at the start of the transfer process. 
And, as I have noted, there was a pause in the process which I consider was out of 
Hargreaves control because it was due to a change in instructions.   
I note Mr H has explained that he received an email notification from his new provider 
informing him that his transfer had completed on 6 April 2020. So, he feels the transfer took 
place later than stated by Hargreaves. (I note Mr H also makes the same point in respect of 
the second transfer, as he received an email from the new provider on 16 June). 
I consider the email Mr H received is information sent by a third party to keep Mr H informed 
about his investment, but it doesnt mean that the transfer took place on that date. 
Hargreaves has provided records which I am satisfied on balance demonstrate that the 
majority of the funds were transferred on 19 March 2020. 
Second Fund and Share Account Transfer
A request for information in respect of a second transfer from Mr Hs Fund and Share 
accounts was received on 9 April 2020. However, Hargreaves didnt respond to that request 
until 8 May 2020 and the acceptance form from the new provider was then received by 
Hargreaves on 10 May 2020. 
Hargreaves has accepted that it took too long to respond to the information request from the 
new provider. It took nearly a month to provide information which it had available, so I 
consider that there was an unnecessary delay there. 
The majority of shares were transferred by 26 May 2020 with the final share investment 
being transferred on 12 June 2020. This was within six weeks of the acceptance and I note 
that Hargreaves needed the new providers acceptance in order to complete the transfer.
However, I think the initial delay by Hargreaves in responding to the request for information it 
received on 9 April, had a knock on effect on the whole transfer process because the new 
provider couldnt give instructions and accept the transfer until it had received that 
information.  
As, I have said, Hargreaves accepts that the transfer took longer than it should have, and I 
think there was an avoidable delay here.
I note in the case of the first transfer Hargreaves sent its response on the fourth working day 
after the request. I think that was a reasonable timeframe for a response of this nature. I also 
note financial businesses were experiencing some disruption at the time due to the 
pandemic. 
So, assuming Hargreaves had then responded in the same timeframe as it did in January 
2020, it wouldve sent its response on 15 April and I think Hargreaves wouldve have then had the acceptance by 17 April 2020, because the new provider responded promptly when it 
received the information in May 2020.   
So, I consider the unnecessary delay in this transfer to be just over three weeks, the 
difference between the 15 April and 8 May 2020.  I think therefore that the transfer shouldve 
been completed in May 2020 rather than June 2020.
During that time Mr H would have paid management fees to Hargreaves. Hargreaves has 
said the fees applied during that period were £15.83.  
Mr H has provided details of his quarterly investment reports which show the fees applied to 
both his Fund and Share account and his Stocks and Shares ISA. I am satisfied on balance 
that the amounts relating to the Fund and Share account correlate with the fee statement 
provided by Hargreaves which it used to calculate compensation. 
Hargreaves has offered to refund the fees charged to the Fund and Share Account from the 
start of the first transfer request to June 2020, amounting to £154.72. So, I consider that to 
be fair and reasonable as it covers a longer period then the period of delay I have identified. 
Hargreaves has also offered to pay £52.07 for the inconvenience caused to Mr H. I am 
satisfied that sum is fair and reasonable in the circumstances given the length of delay 
involved and Hargreaves acceptance at an early stage that there had been some delay and 
its offer of compensation.  
Stocks and Shares ISA Transfer
Mr H says that the transfer of his ISA was delayed by Hargreaves. He says he waited to see 
what would happen with the transfer of his Fund and Share Account before starting the 
transfer of his ISA. So, he says the delay in respect of that account had a knock-on effect on 
his ISA. 
I understand that Mr H wished to be cautious about the transfer of his ISA, but I think it was 
his choice to carry out the transfers consecutively, rather than at the same time. I dont think 
the delay in starting the ISA transfer process can therefore be attributed to Hargreaves.  And 
so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Hargreaves responsible for Mr Hs 
decision to wait before starting the transfer process. 
And I agree with the investigator that this process was carried out within the prescribed time 
limits. Hargreaves received the request for information on 28 May 2020 and the stocks were 
transferred on 25 June 2020. So, it was completed in less than 30 working days, which is the 
timeframe set out in guidance for ISA stock transfers.  
I note Mr H has explained he made purchases with his ISA account and has said they were 
more expensive than if he had made those same purchases through his new provider. He 
has claimed compensation on that basis. However, because I dont consider Hargreaves 
delayed his stocks and shares ISA transfer, for the reasons I have already outlined, I dont 
think any compensation is warranted here.   
Fund charges
Mr H says that he paid higher fund charges because of the delay in transferring his 
investments, as he says Hargreaves fund charges were higher than those applied by his 
new provider.
As the investigator has explained, Mr H would have paid fund charges, whether or not he 
transferred his funds, but Mr Hs argument is that he paid higher fund charges during the 
period of the delay. Mr H has provided some information to evidence this, where he has taken averages of the 
fees applicable to his investments, to try to draw a comparison between the two providers. 
He has worked out the total charges as a percentage of the total value for each provider, 
and then compared them using a similar, but not exactly the same, time period.
That information is general in nature and because it is not fund specific, I cant safely 
conclude whether the fees on the particular funds transferred were lower with the new 
provider. And if so, by how much.  
Similarly, I think online comments made by other investors are insufficiently specific to 
demonstrate the position in respect of Mr Hs investments.
In relation to the first transfer, Hargreaves has said that four out of the five fund fees it 
applied, were either the same or lower than those of the new provider. In addition, it has 
provided details of the comparable fees. 
In respect of the second transfer, Hargreaves has said that ongoing fund charges werent 
being applied to the investments in that transfer, because the stock transferred were all 
share investments. 
So, I dont think I need to determine whether or not the fund fees applied by Hargreaves 
were higher because I have only identified an avoidable delay in respect of the second 
transfer. Therefore, that is the relevant transfer as far as any difference in fees is concerned.  
I can see that second transfer only involved share investments and Hargreaves ongoing 
fund charges, understandably, only applied to funds - not shares.
So, on that basis I dont think I can reasonably conclude that there was any financial loss 
due to higher fund fees in respect of the second, delayed transfer from the Fund and Share 
account.   
And I have also carefully considered Mr Hs comments on the application of management 
fees. However, Hargreaves has already agreed to refund management fees for an extended 
period, which is longer than the one I have identified. 
In addition, as I dont think Hargreaves caused any delay to the transfer of Mr Hs ISA , I 
wont be asking it to do anything further in respect of that aspect of the complaint.     
Summary 
I consider Hargreaves caused an avoidable delay to one of the transfers from Mr Hs Fund 
and Share account, of just over 3 weeks, as set out above.
Putting things right
Overall, I consider the compensation offered by Hargreaves is fair and reasonable for the 
delay. So, it should pay a total of £206.79 (made up of £154.72 of management fees and 
£52.07 for the inconvenience). I understand that £150 had already been paid into Mr Hs 
account, and if that is the case, Hargreaves should pay Mr H the remaining £56.79.   
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited in part 
and it should pay compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman