DRN-3318651
Complaint
Mr B (trading as S) is unhappy that his applications for an overdraft with Lloyds Bank PLC 
were declined 
Background
Mr B has an account with Lloyds. On two occasions in 2018, he applied for an overdraft on 
his account and on both occasions his application was declined. Mr B has argued that 
Lloyds has discriminated against him in declining his applications. Lloyds didnt uphold his 
complaint and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator 
who didnt uphold it.
The Investigator looked at the information Lloyds considered when he made his two 
overdraft applications and didnt think it had discriminated against him when it declined them.
Mr B didnt agree with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching a decision on Mr Bs complaint, I must consider the relevant law and regulations. 
The Equality Act 2010 is relevant law and so its something Ive kept in mind when looking at 
this complaint. But I cant make a general declaration that Lloyds has breached the Equality 
Act  only a court can do that. Instead, I have to decide cases on the basis of what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments carefully and, while Im sorry to have to 
disappoint Mr B, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
According to the relevant rules, Lloyds needed to carry out an affordability assessment 
before agreeing to offer an overdraft to Mr B  including looking at general factors such as 
the customers income and expenditure. The evidence suggests that, when Lloyds 
considered his first application for an overdraft, it was declined on the basis that most of the 
payments made from the account were to pay off credit cards. It wouldnt have been 
affordable to allow Mr B to borrow more money in the form of an overdraft to pay off existing 
debt. 
In respect of the second application, Mr B was asked a range of questions about the 
business he was running and what he needed to borrow the money for. Mr B explained the 
financial position of his business and that he ne needed the overdraft to pay for petrol and 
cleaning chemicals. Each of these things would cost him around £200 per month on an 
ongoing basis. This application was declined because Lloyds was concerned about 
affordability, particularly in view of the fact that credits into the account were fairly irregular 
and that the companys turnover was low.
Having looked at the reasons recorded by Lloyds for declining Mr Bs two overdraft 
applications, Im satisfied that theres no evidence to suggest Lloyds discriminated against 
Mr B or treated him unfairly in declining them. Both applications appear to have been 
declined for objective reasons based on Mr Bs financial position and the way the account 
had been used.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman