DRN-4112636
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled a 
claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering her car. In October 2022 her car 
was damaged in a collision and she made a claim.
Admiral told her that it had assessed her car to be beyond economic repair. It told her it had 
been written off as a category N, and as such her policy had been cancelled.
It said the car had a market value of £1,667. 
Miss D wasnt happy about this valuation and she complained about it and Admirals service. 
Admiral gave conflicting information to Miss D when it told her it had written off her car due 
to its age or because its engineers had assessed it by viewing photos. It later emerged that 
the engineers hadnt assessed the car when Miss D had already been told it was written-off. 
Admiral increased its valuation to £2,425 about 11 weeks after the collision.
Miss D regards her car as a classic. She retained the car and says she was caused 
considerable distress and inconvenience by Admirals poor service. Admiral offered her £100 
compensation.
She remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks for Admiral to 
increase its valuation to over £4,000 and offer her more compensation.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. He thought Admiral should increase its valuation 
to £3,326, plus interest at 8% simple. He also thought Admiral should pay a total of £400 
compensation. 
Miss D accepted the view, but Admiral didnt. It said it didnt agree Miss Ds car was a 
classic so it thought the valuation was too high. It agreed Miss D should have been given a 
higher valuation when she made her claim, and it agreed to pay a total of £200 
compensation. 
Because Admiral didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of Miss Ds claim is her car, which was about 18 years old when the damage 
happened. This service has a standard approach to vehicle valuations where we use trade 
guides to arrive at an average value for each vehicle. In Miss Ds case, were not able to use 
the full range of guides as her car is at the upper end of the age range. But limited evidence 
is still available from other guides we use.
Ive looked into her car in more detail and I can see that its a fairly rare model  production 
stopped soon after hers was made and I can see its a popular car for enthusiasts. 
But that doesnt necessarily make it a classic  which is where Admiral say cars over the age 
of 35 years begin. Ive thought about Admirals point of view here and I think its fairer to say 
that its definition is quite restrictive. Miss Ds car was slightly older, a niche model and the 
sort coveted by collectors who typically would keep them in better than average condition  
all of which would indicate to me that her car should be treated as a classic in this decision.
Ive looked at the values from the trade guides we can use. They are:
Guide A = £5,479
Guide B = £2,045
Guide C = £2,425
When one of the results is regarded as an outlier, our approach for most vehicles would be 
to discount it from our calculations. But Miss D has supplied this service with considerable 
evidence about her cars value  including a photo-based valuation from an owners club. 
The vast majority of these valuations are towards the upper end of the range of trade guides 
mentioned above. So taking this into account, I think the fair thing to do is to include Guide A 
in the calculation, making the average £3,326. I can see Miss D has accepted this amount 
and I think its fair that I ask Admiral to increase its payment to her by £901, plus interest at 
8% simple from 4 November to the date it makes payment.
Ive also thought about Miss Ds distress and inconvenience during her claim. I can see that 
she reported the collision to Admiral and was quickly told her car was a write-off. She was 
told her car was worth £1,667, and Admiral later said this offer was too low and she 
shouldnt have been offered it.
There followed a period of some confusion for Miss D when she was told her car was written 
off, and therefore her policy was cancelled, even though it hadnt been assessed by 
Admirals engineers at that point. She was then unable to move the car to make 
arrangements for a possible repair because shed been told her policy had been cancelled 
already.
Miss D has also talked about her inconvenience during the festive period which is a 
particularly busy time for her. In the end, Admiral didnt increase its valuation for about 11 
weeks which I think is a very long time to wait. During this time, Miss D didnt have a car and 
was relying on friends and family for transport. Admirals initial valuation was so low that she 
wasnt able to have her car repaired.
She has also talked about the stress on her because of the lies she says Admiral told her, 
and the inconsistencies in its version of events, which even happened during individual 
phone calls.
Taking all of this into account, I can see that Admirals poor service caused Miss D 
significant distress and inconvenience. Ive looked at this services guidelines and I think a 
payment of £400 is appropriate compensation in Miss Ds circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss D:
An additional £901, making her car value £3,326.
Interest at 8% simple on this amount, from 4 November 2022 to the date payment is 
made.
£400 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman