DRN-2928783
The complaint
Mr H complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat was irresponsible in its lending 
to him.
What happened
Mr H was provided with two loans by Cashfloat. The first loan was for £250 repayable in a 
single instalment and the second was for £500 repayable over two instalments. Both loans 
were provided in November 2015.
Mr H says that he was in financial difficulty at the time of the loans and that his credit file 
would have shown this. He said he repaid the first loan in full and immediately took out a 
larger loan which should have shown Cashfloat that he was reliant on the loans to live. He 
said he couldnt afford the repayments on the second loan and had to enter a repayment 
plan.
Cashfloat issued a final response letter not upholding Mr Hs complaint. It said that before 
the loans were provided creditworthiness and affordability checks took place. It said that 
Mr H had a net monthly income of £2,800 and that after his expenses the loan repayments 
were affordable. It said Mr H repaid the first loan before the second was provided and that 
both loans were repaid in full. 
Mr H didnt accept Cashfloats final response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He said that the credit check carried out before the 
first loan was provided showed that Mr H had several other short term loans outstanding at 
the time. He said that Cashfloat should have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay this loan  and loan 2.
Cashfloat didnt agree with our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Before the loans were provided information about Mr Hs income and expenses was 
gathered and a credit check carried out. Given there were only two loans provided and 
noting the size of these compared to Mr Hs income I think the checks carried out were 
proportionate. 
It reasonable to expect Cashfloat to fully consider the information received through its 
checks before it lends to a consumer. I have looked at the information gathered regarding 
Mr Hs income and expenses. His income was recorded as £2,800 and based on the 
information provided I agree the loans appeared affordable. However, as set out above it is 
important not only to see if the loans appeared affordable on a pounds and pence basis but 
if they were sustainably affordable for Mr H.
The results from the credit search carried out before the first loan was provided showed that 
Mr H had defaulted on one account within the previous 12 months and 7 accounts within the 
previous 36 months. I have looked at the timing of the defaults and while most were historic 
four of the historic defaults (additional to the default recorded within 12 months) occurred 
less than 15 months before the first loan was provided. I think this timing needed to be 
considered.
It is possible that Mr H had improved his situation in the time between the defaults and the 
loan application. However, having looked at the other information included in the report it 
shows that Mr H had other short term loans outstanding at the time and had taken out two unsecured loans the previous month. I think this should have raised concerns that Mr H was 
still experiencing problems managing his money at the time of the application and that the 
loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
Mr H repaid the first loan and immediately took out the second loan for twice the amount. His 
credit check at this time showed the issues highlighted in the previous report and his actions 
I think further support Mr Hs comments that he was struggling financially at the time. Given 
this I agree with our adjudicator that Cashfloat should have been concerned that both loans 
werent sustainably affordable for Mr H.
On balance, I think the information gathered before the loans were provided was such that 
Cashfloat should have been concerned that it was unlikely that Mr H would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments and therefore I am upholding this complaint.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it hadnt lent to Mr H.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Therefore I find that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr H paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information regarding loans 1 and 2 from Mr H's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman