DRN-4452361
The complaint
Miss H and Mr J have complained that Zurich Insurance PLC declined a claim they made on 
their annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H and Mr J were on a transatlantic ship from the UK which was due to reach its 
destination on the morning of 30 June 2023. However, the ship was diverted due to a 
medical emergency on board, leading to delay, and Miss H and Mr J werent able to 
disembark until later that afternoon. As a result, they missed a connecting flight to their 
ultimate destination. They had to purchase alternative flights for the following day. Their 
claim was for the cost of one nights hotel accommodation, taxi costs and the new flights.
Zurich declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances were not covered under the 
policy terms.
Our investigator thought that Zurich had acted reasonably in declining the claim, in line with 
the policys terms and conditions. Miss H and Mr J disagree and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on Zurich by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes the requirement 
for Zurich to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably decline a claim.
Miss H and Mr J say the circumstances of their delay were outside their control and that it is 
churlish and petty of Zurich to not pay the claim.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. The extent of the 
cover is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the 
consumer to show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the 
policy.
Under the missed departure section of the policy, in relation to what is covered, it states:
..if you cannot reach the departure point of any part of your outward or final return journey 
which is due to commence within 36 hours after the departure date and time of the start of 
your outward or return journey, as a result of:
1) the failure of scheduled public transport due to poor weather conditions, a strike or 
industrial action
2) an accident to or breakdown of, the vehicle in which you are travelling (this would not 
include your vehicle running out of petrol, oil or water, having a flat tyre, puncture or 
flat battery);
3) an accident or breakdown occurring to another vehicle ahead of you on the road 
which causes an unexpected delay to the vehicle in which you are travelling;
I take Miss H and Mr Js point about it being unlikely that someone wouldnt reach their 
departure point at all. But as our investigator explained, the policy terms relate to not 
reaching the departure point within a specified time, rather than not at all.
Furthermore, a claim would only be covered if the failure to reach the departure point on time 
was due to one of the listed reasons. It follows that, if a reason isnt listed, then it isnt 
covered. A diversion for a medical emergency isnt included in the list and therefore isnt an 
insured event under the policy terms.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording, including the travel delay and 
abandonment section, to see if there were any other sections under which the claim could 
be considered. However, the circumstances they found themselves in do not fall within the 
scope of the wider policy terms.
The delay suffered by Miss H and Mr J was clearly outside of their control and undoubtedly 
caused them inconvenience and additional expense. But the question at hand is whether the 
reason for the missed departure was something that the policy covered.
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The 
events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of 
the policy. The policy does provide cover for travel delay and missed departure, but only in 
certain circumstances. And Im satisfied that the policy wording is sufficiently clear, as it sets 
out the specific events that are covered in the event of missed departures.
Overall, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Zurich to decline the claim.
On another matter, Id just like to clear up the issue of a settlement having been paid. Our 
investigator said that Zurich had paid Miss H a settlement amount. This led Miss H and Mr J 
to understand that Zurich had told us it had made a payment. That is not the case. In its 
internal system notes and other correspondence, Zurich uses the word settlement when it 
should perhaps more accurately say outcome. More confusingly, it talks about settlement 
amount in this instance, even though that amount is zero. This led our investigator to 
conclude that some sort of payment had been made. I can see that our investigator has now 
apologised for any misunderstanding that was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman