DRN-2912127
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited is not of satisfactory quality. He wants Oodle to accept his 
rejection of the car and refund his deposit and payments. He also wants it to remove the 
default recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr K obtained a second-hand car using a hire purchase agreement with Oodle in September 
2020. Within a few days, the car broke down and he had to arrange for breakdown 
assistance. This happened three times. Mr K arranged for a mechanic to check the car and 
he confirmed there was a problem with the battery. Mr K returned the car to the supplying 
garage.
The supplying garage said it would look at the car. Mr K says he then decided he wanted to 
reject it.
Oodle says the car was repaired and ready for collection a few days later. Mr K cancelled his 
direct debit for the hire purchase payments, so Oodle followed its collection procedure and 
recorded a default on Mr Hs credit file. Oodle said it refunded Mr K £100 to apologise for the 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Oodle had made an error. She recommended Mr K contact Oodle, who now had the car, to 
arrange collection and to agree an affordable payment plan for the arrears.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He never accepted repairs and theres no evidence to show that he accepted that the car 
should be repaired. He rejected the car when he took it back to the supplying garage.
He wants a full refund of his deposit, plus interest, and his credit score restored.
Recently Oodle told us its terminated the agreement and taken possession of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Oodle is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) materialised.
The car in this case was around seven years old when it was supplied and had been driven 
around 62,000 miles. The car broke down within a few days of it being supplied to Mr M. The 
supplying garage says this was due to a fault with an electrical fuse which was causing the 
battery to drain.
As this happened so soon after the car had been supplied, I think its more likely than not 
that the fault was present when the car was supplied. It follows that I dont find the car was of 
satisfactory quality and Oodle is responsible for putting this right.
Our investigator set out Mr Ks rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. In summary, he 
had a right to reject the car because the fault occurred during the first 30 days. Mr K told us 
he rejected the car when he took it back to the supplying garage. But Ive not seen evidence 
to persuade me that this is what happened. I say this because, when he first discussed his 
complaint with our investigator, he was clear that the garage said it would repair the car. And 
I find it more likely than not that he accepted this because of the calls that took place over 
the next few days. Mr K says he took the car back on a Saturday and that the garage said it 
would look at it on Monday. When he spoke to the garage again it said it needed three more 
days, it later said it needed another week. I think it was at this point that Mr K decided he 
didnt want the car. But by then hed already agreed for it to be repaired. And, whilst the 
supplying garage may not have repaired it as quickly as Mr K hoped, or it had promised, it 
was fully repaired and ready to collect by 10 November  around a month after hed taken it 
there for repair. I dont consider this to be an unreasonable delay, bearing in mind the 
garage had to diagnose the fault and obtain the relevant replacement parts. 
I do understand that Mr K had problems contacting the supplying garage and that he wasnt 
told the car was ready for collection until he complained to Oodle and it told him it had been 
successfully repaired. But I need to decide whether Oodle has treated him fairly and 
reasonably. And I think it has. I think Mr K agreed for the car to be repaired, that the repairs 
were successfully completed and that theres no obligation now on Oodle to accept his 
rejection of the car.
Mr K hadnt received any communication from Oodle to say that it would accept his rejection 
of the car. But Mr K cancelled his direct debit. In the circumstances, I dont find that Oodle 
acted unfairly in following its collection procedure. The agreement hadnt been terminated or 
cancelled so Mr K was still contracted to make the monthly payments. 
I understand Oodle has now terminated the agreement and taken possession of the car. 
I would remind Oodle of its obligation to treat Mr K positively and sympathetically if he is 
experiencing financial difficulties in coming to an arrangement for him to repay the amount 
he owes.  Whilst I sympathise with the position in which Mr K now finds himself, I cant order Oodle to 
remove the default from his credit file or to stop it taking steps to enforce the debt Mr K 
owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman