DRN-4354856
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, covering him for trips taken 
worldwide, including in the UK, during the policy period. The policy period being 
19 December 2022 and 18 December 2023. The policy provided cover for various pre-
departure and post-departure risks.
Mr W has said that on 7 April 2023 he took a trip, within the UK. To save costs he stayed 
with a friend, who sometimes rented out a room in their property. Mr W has explained that 
during the stay he was using his laptop, and dropped a remote control on it, causing damage 
to the item. So, he made a claim under this travel insurance policy for this loss.
Great Lakes considered Mr Ws claim and declined it. Great Lakes said that for a claim to be 
covered Mr W needed to be on an insured trip. And that for domestic travel this meant Mr W 
needed to have pre-booked accommodation. Great Lakes said Mr W hadnt pre-booked 
accommodation and was instead staying with a friend. So, there was no cover under the 
policy for the damage to Mr Ws laptop under his travel insurance policy.
Mr W responded to Great Lakes decline of his claim, and said he wanted to provide clarity 
on his accommodation. Mr W said that he did have pre-booked accommodation  it just 
happened to be with a friend. And he noted that the policy didnt give any specifics on what 
pre-booked accommodation was. So, he felt his situation fell within the terms, and Great 
Lakes should alter its decision.
Great Lakes didnt agree. It maintained its position that Mr Ws claim wasnt covered under 
the policy. As Mr W remained unhappy with Great Lakes response, he referred his service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws case and asked him for any evidence to show he had 
pre-booked his accommodation before he went on the trip. Mr W provided a screenshot of a 
text message he said evidenced this. Our investigator sent this to Great Lakes, who 
maintained its position.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. They said Mr W had provided 
evidence to show he had pre-booked his accommodation, and therefore the loss had 
happened during an insured trip. They recommended that Great Lakes reassess Mr Ws 
claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Great Lakes didnt agree. It said Mr W saying at a friends house wasnt pre-booked 
accommodation and was purely an arrangement between friends for Mr W to stay though. 
So, it said the situation wasnt covered by the policy.
As Great Lakes didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it 
declined to settle Mr Ws claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr Ws policy documentation, to see what cover his policy provided. On 
doing so, I can see Mr Ws policy does provide him with gadget cover, which includes cover 
for laptops. The section explains there is cover for an incident of accidental damage.
Great Lakes has said the cover doesnt apply if the claim occurs whilst not on a trip. And it 
says Mr W wasnt on a trip as detailed by the policy.
So, Ive thought about whether Great Lakes has acted fairly here. And I dont agree that it 
has. 
I say this because the gadget section notes that a trip is travel during the policy period, and 
the general conditions of the policy note that:
We will only provide cover for domestic travel (within the United Kingdom) which includes 
a flight or pre-booked overnight accommodation away from Your normal residence.
Mr Ws travel was during his policy period. He travelled on 7 April 2023 for three days. And 
he did have pre-booked overnight accommodation, away from his normal residence. He has 
provided a screenshot of messages between him and a friend which shows him pre-booking 
the room. This relevant message says:
Yes, I got your voicemail and yes the room has been reserved for you on Friday 7th. I wont 
be around but will you call later to give you the code for the key box. No need to transfer me 
the money, we can settle up when we go the pub.
As I think Mr W has shown he was on an insured trip, as required by the above terms of 
policy, Im satisfied Great Lakes shouldnt have declined his claim as it did. 
Great Lakes has told this service it needed evidence of a booking, and of a transaction for a 
paid booking, and Mr W hadnt provided it. But Im satisfied the above is evidence of a 
booking. And looking at the policy, there isnt any requirement for the pre-booked 
accommodation to have been pre-paid. So, the fact the accommodation wasnt pre-paid 
doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied Great Lakes acted unfairly, and should reassess Mr Ws 
claim, as detailed below.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to reassess Mr Ws claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman