DRN-3576824
The complaint
Mr W complains that when he applied for a mortgage in his own name with Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax it incorrectly recorded information about the application on his ex-
partners credit file. 
What happened
Mr W applied for a mortgage in joint names with Halifax. The relationship with the joint 
borrower broke down before the mortgage completed. Mr W then went ahead with a 
mortgage application to Halifax in his sole name. But information relating to his sole 
application appeared on his ex-partners credit file. Mr W said he didnt want his ex-partner 
to know how much he was borrowing.
Halifax accepted it had made an error. It removed the information from the ex-partners 
credit file and offered Mr W £750 to reflect the upset caused. The investigator thought that 
Halifaxs offer was fair.
Mr W didnt accept what the investigator said. He said that the fact Halifax resolved things 
quickly didnt change anything and that Halifaxs mistake continued to cause problems with 
his ex-partner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Halifax made a mistake here. It should have taken a lot more care to 
make sure that it didnt record private and confidential information about Mr W on someone 
elses credit file  particularly at a time where Mr W was potentially vulnerable because of his 
relationship breaking down.
Mr W hasnt told us about or given any evidence of any financial loss caused by the mistake. 
So I cant make any award for that. It has also already corrected the credit file issue.
I can make an award to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr W suffered as a result of 
this matter. I accept what Mr W has told us about the impact on him. Quite reasonably, he 
didnt want his ex-partner to know how much he was borrowing. He said that Halifaxs 
mistake has caused him ongoing problems in that relationship. Bearing in mind the 
circumstances and what Mr W has told us, I consider that Halifaxs offer of £750 is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. I cant see any reason why that amount should be 
increased. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £750 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax should pay Mr W £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman