DRN-2115146
The complaint
Mr P says Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
Provident didnt carry out effective affordability checks. If it had, it wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about six home credit loans Provident provided to Mr P between April 2009 
and August 2019. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidWeekly
InstalmentsAmount Maximum 
Combined 
Repayment
1 27/04/2009 07/09/2010 57 £500 £15.00
2* 03/09/2010 21/06/2011 50 £600 £21.00
Break in lending
3 28/12/2017 10/10/2018 26 £300.00 £18.00
4** 02/04/2019 07/08/2019 26 £350.00 £21.00
5 07/05/2019 Outstanding 52 £250.00 £30.00
6 06/08/2019 Outstanding 78 £800.00 £30.60
*Loan two has an outstanding balance of £575 which has been written off. 
** Provident has already upheld Mr Ps complaint about loan four and made an offer in-line 
with how this service would put the matter right. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about the remaining loans. For the earlier 
loans they thought it wouldnt have been proportionate for Provident to have asked for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unaffordable. For the later loans, 
they thought Provident should have taken steps to verify Mr Ps circumstances, but they 
hadnt seen anything to suggest the loans were unsustainable. 
In response to the adjudicator Mr P said he was still struggling to repay the loans. He said he 
should receive a better offer from Provident.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Provident was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr P, in response to the adjudicator said he thought he should receive a better offer. But 
didnt give me any more information to consider. 
Provident has already made an offer for loan four so I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the 
loan was part of the borrowing relationship Mr P had with Provident. So, it is something I will 
take into account when considering the other loans he took. So, Ill be considering loans one 
to three and loans five and six. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
I should first say that I agree with the adjudicator that there are two chains in lending. There 
was a break of more than six years between loans two and three. Because of this I dont 
think its unreasonable for Provident to have assumed that Mr P had overcome whatever 
financial circumstances had caused him to take high-cost credit in the first instance. A break 
in a chain of lending in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when taking into account the length of the 
borrowing relationship with a consumer.  
Chain 1  loans one and two
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But as loan one was to run for a 57-week term I 
think Provident should have carried out more checks about Mr Ps circumstances. However, 
we dont have any income and earnings information from that time, nor do we have any bank 
statements or other information from Mr P. So, I dont have anything to show that the lending 
was unaffordable for Mr P.
For loan two, it was for a term of 50 weeks and I note it was for a slightly higher amount than 
loan one and loan one was repaid before the agreed term and only four days after loan two 
was taken. So, it may have been the case that Mr P partly repaid loan one with the 
borrowings he took at loan two. This may have been a suggestion that Mr P was struggling 
financially. But again, I have no other information from this time, so I dont have anything to 
show the lending was unaffordable for Mr P. And I note that Provident has written off the 
outstanding balance on loan two in any event.
So, based on the very limited information I have, I cant say that Provident was wrong to 
have agreed to loans one and two.
Chain two  loans three, five and six
As explained above, this is a new chain in borrowing. 
Providents records for loan three show Mr P had a monthly income over £5,000 at a time 
when his outgoings were recorded as just over £900. So, I would question why Mr P would 
need to take this type of borrowing and I think Provident should have looked into this further. 
But I dont have enough information to say Provident shouldnt have given this loan to Mr P 
and I note that Provident reduced the loan amount from £500 to £300 which may have been 
enough to take into account concerns it may have had over Mr Ps high income and amount 
of outgoings. I also note the agreed term was lower than for the earlier loans and the 
repayments were relatively low. 
Loan five was taken only a month after loan four was agreed. But at the time Mr P was up to 
date with his repayments for loan four. The loan was for a slightly lower amount but for a 
longer term which would have reduced the weekly repayments. I note the credit checks 
provided by Provident did indicate Mr Ps finances were improving slightly and his 
indebtedness score was decreasing. Overall, I dont consider there is enough to show that 
Provident shouldnt have given loan five to Mr P. 
For loan six, again the credit checks provided by Provident would suggest Mr Ps finances 
were still improving. Mr P appears to have been mostly up to date with the repayments for 
loans four and five. And loan four was repaid early so the weekly repayment would have 
remained about the same. Again, in the absence of additional checks that would show 
otherwise, I dont have sufficient evidence to show that Provident was wrong in giving loan 
six to Mr P. 
So, my overall conclusion for loans one, two and loans three, five and six is that I cant safely 
decide that Provident was wrong to have agreed to these loans. My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans one, two and 
loans three, five and six. Provident has already offered to uphold loan four so I will not be 
asking Provident Personal Credit Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman