DRN-2220564
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc has carried out two searches of his credit record without 
his permission and without explaining why.
What happened
Mr B found out that TSB had carried out anti money laundering searches in 2019. He 
complained but TSB said it hadnt made a mistake and had his permission to access and 
share his information with credit reference and fraud prevention agencies. Mr B referred his 
complaint saying that he only had a modest income and couldnt see why these searches 
were required. He wanted to see evidence he had agreed to them.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that TSB had 
explained that it carried out these searches to help ensure that its records were up to date. 
She referred to its data privacy notice which set out that it would exchange information about 
Mr B, for example with credit reference agencies. And that Mr B consented to this when he 
opened his account. The terms and conditions were updated over time and Mr B last signed 
to confirm them in 2017 when he opened a monthly savings account. The searches he was 
complaining about were soft searches which would only be visible to Mr B and to TSB and 
not to other lenders. So, it should have no impact on his credit record. TSB wasnt required 
to notify Mr B of the searches or explain why it had carried them out further than it had set 
out in its final response.
Mr B didnt agree. TSB had said in that response that he had signed a privacy notice when 
he opened his account a number of years ago which it should retract if it couldnt provide 
evidence of this. He wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and for mainly the same reasons. Mr B is fairly 
bound by the terms and conditions of his accounts. He would have signed to agree this 
when he opened them. And that includes the current privacy notice and I can see, for 
example, this was referred to when he opened an account in 2017. TSB will notify him of 
changes to the terms and conditions in the agreed way. But it doesnt need his explicit 
signed agreement when terms change, and it has told this service that it doesnt provide an 
option to opt out of the privacy notice.
TSB has to meet its legal and regulatory requirements. Its set out for Mr B why it carried out 
these searches in its final response. And I cant see any evidence of any adverse impact on 
his credit record. While I understand why Mr B may have been alarmed to see the entries Im 
afraid I dont have a basis to find TSB has made a mistake or acted unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman