DRN-3184839
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr M explained that he received two calls that appeared to be from Barclays and was 
suspicious because they asked for his three-digit security number from the back of his debit 
card. Mr M says he never gave this to them and ended the call. The day after the last text 
was received, he noticed a number of transactions had been taken from his account that he 
didnt recognise and called Barclays about them.
Mr M couldnt get through on the phone, so he went to a Barclays branch and reported the 
problem where a fraud claim was logged. Barclays issued a temporary credit to Mr M whilst 
they looked into the claim. Barclays later took the temporary credit back from Mr M.
Barclays declined to make a refund, believing Mr M responsible for the transactions. 
Barclays said that there were matching IP addresses* and the payments were either made 
with Mr Ms registered mobile device or were card not present (CNP) transactions. CNP 
means that the card holder and the merchant arent physically together when the transaction 
is carried e.g. when done via the phone/internet. Barclays also told Mr M that because there 
were no further attempts to use the cancelled card after it was reported, this was an 
indication that whoever made the disputed transactions knew it had been cancelled and was 
unlikely to be an unknown third party.
*Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
Mr M disagreed with Barclays and made a complaint about their handling of the claim. 
Barclays investigated the complaint and declined to change their position. Mr M remained 
unhappy with Barclays and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an 
independent review. 
Mr M provided a list of messages and calls hed received on his phone at the time of the 
disputed transactions and explained that this showed how the fraud had operated and that it 
wasnt him whod carried them out. He confirmed that he hadnt lost his card or his phone 
and hadnt given anyone else access to them or his security details to allow someone else to 
use them.
Barclays supplied evidence to show Mr Ms use of his online banking and how the payments 
were made, either through the use of the card details or mobile payments using Mr Ms 
registered mobile phone. Barclays also recorded that a new mobile phone was registered on 
Mr Ms account using his same phone number. Shortly after, the disputed transactions were 
made using his e- wallet. Barclays noted a large number of different devices had been 
registered by Mr M to use his mobile banking facility, which they thought wasnt typical.
Mr Ms complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought it was reasonable 
for Barclays to hold him responsible for the transactions. She couldnt find a point of 
compromise that would allow an unknown third party to use Mr Ms card details and his 
mobile device to make the payments. She thought the timings of Mr Ms use of his online 
banking and the disputed transactions pointed to Mr M having knowledge of them. She 
pointed out that the newly registered mobile wasnt responsible for the disputed transactions. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for a further review of his complaint, he said he hadnt ever made 
such a large number of transactions together and this was out of character for him. Mr M 
didnt recognise the registration of another phone and couldnt understand some of the 
jargon  particularly the CNP reference. Mr M questioned the text message that Barclays 
claimed to have sent to his phone and speculated that it was an internal fraud issue within 
Barclays that was responsible for his loss.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr M liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made 
them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Barclays have supplied evidence that 
shows the disputed transactions were authorised using a device registered to Mr M (e-
wallet) or the correct debit card details. Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed 
transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Mr M agreed to operate the account to 
allow Barclays to make payments on Mr Ms behalf. For example, Barclays terms and 
conditions set out that if a payment is made using a registered device (e-wallet) or the use of 
the correct card details, then Barclays accept that the instruction to make the payment is 
authorised by the account holder. So, because the registered device was used to make 
contactless payments via its e-wallet and other transactions used the correct card details 
entered into a merchants website, Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed 
transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for 
Barclays to hold Mr M responsible, for example if the mobile app or his card details were 
used without his permission.
Mr M has explained that he received suspicious calls that were intended to make him think it 
was Barclays calling him. When he spoke with the caller, they tried to obtain his debit card 
details including the three-digit security number from the back of the card. Mr M didnt give 
them this information and ended the call.
From this, it appears that Mr M was subject to some form of scam because a legitimate 
Barclays employee would be unlikely to ask for this type of information. Ive examined the 
series of events leading up to the disputed transactions and the following table sets it out for 
ease of explanation. 
Event Date & Time
New phone registration for Barclays Mobile 
Banking with Speedy reg text to Mr Ms 7/12/20 20:38registered mobile phone.
Card Not Present (CNP) transactions start 7/12/20 20:42
Mr M logs in to Barclays Mobile Banking 
from device previously used (and not 
disputed)7/12/20 20:52
Mr M receives call from Barclays (believes 
suspicious)7/12/20 20:53
Last CNP payment (total of four) 7/12/20 20:57
Anti-Fraud message to Mr Ms mobile related 
to CNP transactions7/12/20 20:57
Mr Ms Mobile phone registered for (e-wallet) 7/12/20 21:02
First e-wallet payment using contactless 
facility on mobile phone7/12/20 21:03
Anti-Fraud message to Mr Ms mobile related 
to e-wallet transactions.7/12/20 21:36
Last e-wallet transaction (total of 12) 7/12/20 23:13
Mr M receives second call from Barclays 
(believes suspicious)8/12/20 20:41
Mr M notices transactions and reports to 
Barclays9/12/20 morning.
Mr M denied registering a different phone on the evening of the disputed transactions but the 
evidence from Barclays shows two devices were registered with the same phone number 
and used at different times on 7/12/20. The data also shows matching IP addresses for the 
use of the new device and previous devices. What that means is the newly registered device 
was used from the same location as other devices registered by Mr M. The registration of 
new devices requires a verification code to be entered thats sent to the registered phone. 
Barclays records show only one phone number was used throughout this period, so I think 
any messages sent by Barclays would have gone to the devices used by Mr M.
Mr M sent information from his mobile phone supplier to show what messages he received, 
but they dont cover the actual time period of when the disputed transaction occurred. 
Barclays provided evidence of their Speedy Reg system for new devices and this shows a 
new device was registered at 20:38 on 7/12/20. So, I think its likely that Mr M registered a 
second device using his registered number. Barclays records also show Mr M was logging in 
to his mobile banking account with a previous device during the evening when the disputed 
transactions were taking place. So, I think its likely he was aware what was happening with 
his account at the time, despite not notifying Barclays about it until a day and a half later.
Mr M explained that hed not given out his debit card details to allow them to be used by any 
scammers. He also confirmed he was the only one who had access to his phone and cards. 
Its difficult to find a plausible scenario to explain how an unauthorised third party could gain access to Mr Ms phone and card details without him being aware of it. 
The disputed transactions started before any call was received that may be linked to an 
attempt at a scam, so I dont think that this is the explanation for how the authorised 
transactions started. The larger Card Not Present transactions were made using Mr Ms card 
details and as he hadnt spoken with anyone about them before the first transaction took 
place, I think its more likely than not that he was responsible for them. 
The second set of disputed transactions used an e-wallet linked to Mr Ms account that was 
used on a phone registered to him, so I dont think its plausible for his phone to be used by 
anyone else when hes already confirmed he was the only one using it. Its unlikely anyone 
could obtain all the necessary information about Mr Ms account to impersonate him and use 
his genuine phone number. I did consider the possibility of a sim-swap being responsible 
for the disputed transactions using the e-wallet, but I dont think it was likely because Mr M 
hadnt reported this and it would be apparent to the user because theyd lose control of their 
phone number. Also, anyone attempting to take control of the phone number would need to 
know all the other details of Mr Ms account in order to log in to the mobile banking.
Mr M may well have also been subject to an attempted scam, but I dont think thats the 
explanation for how these transactions took place. Thats because the disputed transactions 
started prior to the first suspicious call and the second suspicious call took place the next 
day, by which time the disputed transactions had finished. Barclays pointed out that no 
further attempts were made to use Mr Ms account once hed notified them about his losses. 
The logic behind this is that the user of the card, if not Mr M , wouldnt know if or when the 
card was cancelled and would keep using it after it was blocked  unless the user knew it 
had been cancelled.
I appreciate Mr M said the transactions were out of character for him and looking at his 
recent statements, Id agree. But, the issue for me to consider here is whether its fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable for them. I think it was and Id also note that they 
sent two messages to Mr M about the series of transactions at the time which he hasnt 
appeared to respond to. So, I dont think that Barclays needed to do anything further and I 
think that its more likely than not that Mr M was responsible for making the disputed 
transactions or allowing someone to do it with his knowledge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman