DRN-3189673
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly blocked payments out of his account.
What happened
Mr T says Lloyds unfairly and unreasonably blocked payments out of his account despite 
having previously set up the payee and having previously made payments to the same 
account. He says he spent a significant amount of time on the telephone to Lloyds about the 
payments and questions how Lloyds deals with this type of issue.
Lloyds says it can hold payments for security reasons but accepts its call waiting times are 
longer than usual. It has paid Mr T £35 compensation for the poor service he received.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it wasnt our role to comment on Lloyds security policy or recommend it 
change it. The investigator thought Lloyds had paid an appropriate compensation amount in 
respect of the service issue.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says he has opened new accounts as a result of what 
took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mr T appreciates that banks and building societies must have security and fraud 
measures in place to protect its and its customers money. I accept that on occasions 
legitimate transactions from legitimate customers are made subject to security measures as 
here. I also accept that means such legitimate customers are caused inconvenience, but I 
dont think that means Lloyds was at fault here in circumstances where its security measures 
blocked Mr Ts payments.
I appreciate Mr T questions Lloyds security systems and suggests they be looked at and if 
necessary, changed. But that isnt our role, we are not Lloyds regulator and so we cant fairly 
interfere in such matters or direct that it changes how it deals with such matters.
There is no question here that Mr T did spend some time on the telephone in July 2021 
trying to sort matters out. I can see that Lloyds has fairly apologised for that part of the 
complaint and paid what I think is appropriate compensation. I appreciate that is not the 
main part of Mr Ts complaint.
Overall, I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can 
do and, in any event, can see Mr T has opened new accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman