DRN-4175546
The complaint
Mrs C complains that QIC Europe Ltd rejected her claim under her pet insurance policy. 
My references to QIC include its claim and complaint handling agents. 
What happened
In December 2022 Mrs C says she noticed that her dog had a lump the size of a quails egg. 
She took her to the vet. Mrs Cs vet diagnosed a hernia and operated on the dog to correct 
the hernia. She made a claim to QIC for the vet treatment costs.
QIC rejected Mrs Cs claim because her vet had indicated that Mrs Cs dog had had the 
lump since her dog had been spayed in August 2018. This was before Mrs C had taken out 
the policy in July 2021. As such, QIC said the hernia was a pre-existing condition, which was 
excluded from cover under the policy. 
Mrs C did not agree with QIC. She said that in December 2022 she had told the vet only that 
her dogs spay scar was not as smooth as the dogs sisters scar, and she had not noticed 
any lumps before that. She provided a letter from her vet practices head vet supporting this. 
The head vet said that the clinical records between August 2018 and September 2022 did 
not show any palpable abnormality in the area during clinical examinations. The first 
documented concern was in December 2022. The vet said she could not definitively say the 
ventral abdominal wall hernia was linked to the spay.
QIC did not change its position. It said the first signs of an illness or injury which were 
apparent prior to the inception of the policy were not covered.
Mrs C asked us to look into her complaint. Our Investigator upheld it and recommended that 
QIC should pay her claim, with 8% simple interest. Mrs Cs vet had said the hernia could not 
be linked to the spay and that no lumps had been mentioned in the clinical notes following 
examinations. 
Mrs C accepted our Investigators findings but QIC did not. In summary, it said: 
It has not linked the hernia to the spay surgery, and this had no bearing on its claim 
decision.
The vets December 2022 contemporaneous note says Mrs C had told them that the 
dog had a lump since the pet had been spayed, and the lump had got bigger and 
become more swollen. The spay surgery pre-dates the policy inception and so it was 
fair to decline the claim.
The head vets letter of March 2023 is not contemporaneous. The letter does not 
explain why the earlier notes are not accurate or provide a plausible explanation for 
why the notes are wrong. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules require insurers to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably 
reject a claim. Ive taken this into account when considering how QIC has applied the policy 
terms in this case. 
Mrs Cs policy does not provide cover for pre-existing conditions. This is very common in pet 
insurance; insurers generally dont want to cover something thats already happened, since 
the aim of insurance is generally to protect against the risk of something happening in the 
future. The policy terms exclude cover for treatment costs relating to:
Signs of Incidents which were apparent prior to the inception of the Policy
An Incident is defined as A specifically identifiable Accident, Injury or Illness. An Illness 
means Physical disease, sickness, infection or failure which is not caused by Injury.
So the key issue is whether the treatment costs Mrs C claimed for related to something that 
had already started before she took out her policy.
QIC says the symptoms were already noted before the policy started. It has referred to the 
clinical notes for 28 December 2022 which say:
Spayed at 4mo [months old] had a lump since then. Has become bigger and more swollen. 
No changes in herself, eating well.
QIC says that Mrs Cs vet did not provide a plausible explanation for the above note. But the 
head vets letter supports what Mrs C herself told QIC when she called to dispute its claim 
decision; that is, that her dogs spay scar was not as smooth as her sisters scar. 
I think Mrs Cs explanation is supported by the head vets letter saying that no palpable lump 
had been detected during any examination between August 2018 when the dog was spayed 
and September 2022; and that the first documented concern was December 2022 when 
Mrs C asked the vet to check the lump. 
Ive read the clinical history and the notes after the spay shows that Mrs C had reported all 
was well and the vet noted that the wound looks great. The clinical history notes that the 
vet had palpated the dogs abdomen during appointments in May 2019, August 2020 and 
August 2021 and nothing abnormal was detected then or during the August 2022 annual 
health check. 
I dont consider its likely, on balance, that Mrs C herself had detected a lump which was not 
palpable to her vet during a number of examinations since the spay or that Mrs C would not 
have mentioned this to her vet during her dogs health checks. I think her explanation that 
the spay scar was not smooth is plausible, and had been mentioned with specific reference 
to a lump discovered in the area of the spay scar. 
I accept QIC did not suggest the ventral abdominal hernia was linked to the spay surgery. 
But I think the point our Investigator was making was that the head vet of Mrs Cs vet 
surgery said that she could not definitively say the hernia was linked to the dogs spay 
(where the dogs spay took place before the policys inception). 
I dont consider that QIC has shown that the hernia was a pre-existing condition under the 
policy. As such, it is fair that QIC now pays Mrs Cs claim, subject to any applicable excess 
plus simple interest at 8% per year as set out below. Putting things right
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the claim, subject to any applicable excess together with simple 
interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date of claim until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to take the 
steps set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman