DRN-3584803
The complaint
Miss Z has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) allowed 
a payment to be taken from her account, even though shed given the business she was 
dealing with the wrong security information. 
What happened
Miss Z booked a hotel stay through an online site.  She provided her Virgin card details to 
secure the booking.  But the hotel debited £161 from her account for the accommodation 
costs.  
Miss Z was forced to cancel her trip when she caught Covid 19.  So she contacted the hotel 
to ask for a refund.  The hotel said they couldnt process that, because the card verification 
number (CVC) shed provided from the back of her card was wrong.
Miss Z contacted Virgin to find out how, if shed given the wrong CVC, the payment had 
been processed and her account debited.  Virgin told her it was impossible for this to have 
happened because inputting the wrong number would stop the transfer being authorised.  
They said the hotel must be wrong in what it had told Miss Z and that the hotel shouldnt 
have her CVC at all.
Miss Z asked to speak to a manager as she wasnt happy with what she was told.  But the 
call handler refused to put her through, as he said the manager would just give her the same 
information as he had.  So the following day Miss Z complained to Virgin.
Virgin investigated and agreed with Miss Z that her request to speak to a manager hadnt 
been dealt with properly.  They said the call handler should have tried to transfer the call 
and, if no manager was available, should have taken Miss Zs details and arranged a call 
back.  Virgin said theyd credit Miss Zs account with £30 to compensate for this.
But Virgin said the transaction Miss Z was concerned about was authorised automatically.  
And that wouldnt have happened unless all the details provided were correct.  They said 
Miss Z would need to take the issue of the refund up with the hotel.
At around the same time as Miss Z complained, the hotel made a partial refund to her of 
£60.
Miss Z wasnt satisfied with Virgins response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator contacted Virgin to get their business file.  Virgin supplied this with a synopsis of 
the matter, in which they confirmed the transaction wouldnt have gone through if the wrong 
CVC had been given.  But they said using the CVC to verify transactions is optional for the 
merchant.  And the hotel hadnt used it in this case.
Our investigator considered Miss Zs complaint and concluded Virgin didnt need to do any 
more to resolve it.  He confirmed the CVC is used at the merchants discretion and isnt a 
requirement for all transactions.  And the transaction was processed because theyd not 
used it.  He saw no evidence that Virgin had done anything wrong.
Miss Z didnt agree with the investigators view and was unhappy that the CVC wasnt used if 
it had been given and that Virgin hadnt looked deeper into the transaction during her 
complaint.  Ive now been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Zs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand why Miss Zs upset.  She made a booking and had money debited from her 
account when she made the booking, when shed arranged to pay at the hotel.  And shes 
only received a partial refund from the hotel.  So shes just over £100 out of pocket.
But I can only say Virgin should refund the balance to her if Im satisfied shes lost out as a 
result of something they did wrong.  And I dont think thats the case.
Miss Z says she entered her card details incorrectly.  Virgin says she must have entered 
them correctly, because otherwise the transaction would fail.  Ive thought about this.  This 
type of transaction is commonplace.  And its usual to see a transaction declined if a buyer 
doesnt complete their card details correctly.  So I think its possible Miss Z completed her 
details correctly.  
Even if she didnt, Virgin have explained its the merchants choice whether to use the CVC 
to verify a transaction  and that it wasnt used in this case.  And I cant hold Virgin 
responsible for how either the hotel or the booking site chose to verify the information Miss Z 
gave  or say that they should require the merchant to give the CVC in every case.
With regard to her experience when she called Virgin, Ive listened to three of Miss Zs calls 
with various members of staff.  I do agree the first call could have been better handled and a 
transfer to a manager offered.  
But I think the £30 Virgin arranged to transfer to Miss Zs account is reasonable 
compensation for this.  Despite the manner of the first call handler, all three gave Miss Z 
consistent information  that, if she inputted a CVC incorrectly, the transaction wouldnt 
proceed.  
And all three advised her to go back to the hotel and check what theyd told her because 
they didnt see how what the hotel had said was correct.  So, the impact on Miss Z was 
limited to the manner of the call.  Theres no suggestion the outcome would have been 
different if shed been transferred to a manager as she requested.
Finally, Ive seen that Virgin did comment on the issue of a chargeback against the hotel for 
the refund shes seeking.  Theyve said that, if Miss Z wants to pursue that theyd need 
evidence shed cancelled her booking - and that cancelling meant she was due a refund.
Ive not seen the booking terms.  But Id urge Miss Z to consider this if she can provide the 
evidence Virgin would need to raise a chargeback, because I dont think they need to do any 
more than theyve done already to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Zs complaint about Clydesdale Bank 
Plc, trading as Virgin Money.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman