DRN-3464412
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) irresponsibly 
increased his credit card limit when he was struggling with his finances. 
What happened
Mr J applied for and was provided with a Halifax credit card account in 2009. Halifax agreed 
an initial credit limit of £900. Halifax then increased the credit limit on Mr Js account to 
£1,650 in April 2010.
Halifax increased Mr Js credit limit again in November 2011  this time to £2400. By 
December 2011, Mr J was fully utilising the new credit limit available to him and continued to 
only make minimum payments by direct debit. In 2015, Mr J was struggling to maintain his 
payments. Halifax reduced his credit limit to £2,300. But as regular payments werent being 
made, Mr Js account defaulted, and the debt was eventually sold to a third-party debt 
collection company.
Mr J says that at the time Halifax increased his limit, he was only making minimum payments 
to the account and was using a very high level of the credit limit available to him. He also 
had debts with other credit providers and was using a high level of those limits too. Mr J says 
he was using different credit facilities to repay his debts.
In 2021, Mr J discovered that lenders could be held accountable for providing credit facilities 
irresponsibly. Hed watched a popular consumer affairs television show which highlighted 
such situations and explained the steps consumers should take if they felt theyd been 
affected.
In August 2021, Mr J wrote to Halifax to complain. He thought Halifax shouldve realised he 
couldnt repay what he owed within a reasonable length of time. Mr J thought Halifax 
shouldnt have let him borrow more in 2011. He thought they had enough information 
available to warn them he was struggling with his finances, and it wasnt responsible to lend 
him more.
Halifax responded to Mr Js complaint in a letter on 15 September 2021. They said they 
could only consider his complaint if it was brought to them within six years of the event he 
was complaining about. Because the limit increase was in November 2011, they said he 
wouldve needed to complain by November 2017 or three years from when he first realised 
he had a need to complain. Halifax thought Mr Js complaint was outside of these time limits.
Mr J wasnt happy with Halifaxs response. He said he wasnt aware of a need or reason to 
complain until 2021- when he watched the television show. So, he decided to bring his 
complaint to this service. Our investigator thought Mr Js complaint should be considered. 
And after explaining this to Halifax, they provided their consent.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator thought Halifax had acted 
irresponsibly when they increased Mr Js credit limit in 2011. He thought Halifax should 
refund all interest and charges from November 2011 on any amount borrowed above the 
previous limit of £1,650. And if refunds resulted in an overpayment, Halifax should refund 
this together with interest of 8% simple per year, removing any adverse data from Mr Js 
credit file. Where a debt remained, our investigator thought Halifax should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr J.  
Halifax didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said the information available to 
them didnt suggest that Mr J had any financial difficulties at the time they increased his limit. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Js complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and guidance that applied when Halifax increased Mr Js credit card limit in 2011 
were set by the Office of Fair Trading. These stated that Halifax should complete an 
assessment of affordability before agreeing to or increasing Mr Js credit limit. The 
assessment should consider the potential for the increase to adversely impact Mr Js 
financial situation, taking account of information available at the time the increase was 
agreed. 
The rules and guidance dont detail the specific checks to be made. They should be 
proportionate and demonstrate that Mr J should be able to sustainably repay the debt over a 
reasonable period of time. Factors may include:
the type of credit; and
the amount of credit and the associated cost and risk to Mr J; and
Mr Js financial situation at the time; and
Mr Js credit history including and indications of financial difficulty; and
Mr Js existing and future financial commitments.
Although there are no prescribed sources of information to be used in this assessment, 
examples may include:
records of Mr Js previous dealings with Halifax (or the wider group); and
evidence of income; and
evidence of expenditure; and
credit scoring; and
credit reference agency information; and
information obtained from Mr J. 
Key here is whether there was information available to Halifax that shouldve prompted them 
to undertake further proportionate tests and checks in their assessment. If there was, and 
those checks werent completed, I would need to consider what those checks mightve 
revealed and whether a responsible lender wouldve increased Mr Js limit based upon those 
findings.
Halifax have confirmed they no longer have records relating to Mr Js original application, or 
the limit increases. I dont see this as unreasonable as theyre only obliged to keep records 
for a limited time. But this does mean Halifax are unable to confirm what checks and tests 
were completed and what these revealed.
Where there is no clear record of what happened, I must decide on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence 
that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive looked at Mr Js credit card statements for the 12-months before Halifax increased his 
limit. For the majority of the period, Mr J owed more than £1,600 against the agreed limit of 
£1,650. He also appeared to be mainly making minimum payments. Where credit was available, he used the account to make small purchases increasing the balance owed close 
to the limit. Theres no evidence of limit excesses or missed payments.
At the end of August 2011, Mr J repaid the balance he owed in full. He then made two 
balance transfers from his account totalling £1,479.51. This is usually where a debt is 
transferred from another credit provider. Mr J then continued to make minimum payments.
The fact Mr J was generally only making minimum payments wouldnt ensure the debt was 
repayable over a reasonable period of time. So, this may raise questions about his financial 
situation at the time. Halifax say they dont believe this was a sign of financial difficulty. 
Rather that it was probably Mr Js choice and was in keeping with what they see other 
customers choosing to do. While I dont disagree with that observation, it should be 
considered within the context of other information available.
I accept that Mr J had met all the terms of his credit card agreement. But the fact hed been 
consistently paying minimum payments coupled with the balance transfers made so soon 
after hed repaid the credit card balance were, I think, sufficient to prompt Halifax to consider 
further checks and tests before increasing his limit. So, I wouldve expected them to do that 
here. The question then is, what would those checks and tests have revealed?
Ive looked at Mr Js bank statements for the 12 months to November 2011. He held a 
current account within the wider banking group to which Halifax were affiliated. So, I would 
expect this information to have been available to Halifax, or requested. The statements show 
Mr J received income from three sources. Two of these related to state benefits in the form 
of Tax credits. They accounted for 62% of Mr Js regular income. The remaining employment 
income was received fortnightly and fluctuated between £106 and £343 each time. I think 
this suggests that Mr Js earned income wasnt fully guaranteed and would depend upon the 
terms of his employment contract and the hours he worked. So, I think Halifax wouldve 
needed to check that.
It also appears Mr J had other credit commitments, not least evidenced by a monthly loan 
repayment of £156 and payments to another credit card provider. Remaining payments 
appear to relate to general living expenses, and I cant see any evidence of excessive non-
discretional spend. This is what I would expect. State benefits are means tested, and by their 
nature are not usually designed to create a surplus of income. Further, the statements show 
no evidence of a regular monthly surplus accumulating from Mr Js income. So, I would 
expect a responsible lender to question Mr Cs ability to generate material surpluses to repay 
debts where the majority of income appears to be benefits related and fully utilised.
In August 2011, Mr J received a payment of over £5,000 into his current account. Hes 
explained this related to an award made for an accident he was involved in. It was at this 
point Mr J repaid the Halifax credit card debt. But shortly after, he arranged two balance 
transfers to other creditors from his Halifax credit card.
Mr J has told this service he was struggling financially. He said he was using available credit 
to repay other creditors. The evidence above persuades me this was likely to have been the 
case. Given this information, Im not persuaded that a responsible lender, acting reasonably 
wouldve agreed to increase Mr Js credit limit further.
I accept Halifax wouldnt have had the benefit of hindsight. But the fact that Mr J then fully 
utilised the credit Halifax had made available and only made minimum payments, further 
persuades me that Mr J clearly wasnt able to sustainably repay his debt.
I want to assure Halifax that Ive considered all their comments and observations following 
our investigators view of Mr Js complaint. But Im not persuaded that they completed 
appropriate and proportionate checks before they increased Mr Js credit limit. And, I dont 
think the limit increase was appropriate.
Halifax did suggest that the increase agreed would only result in increasing Mr Js minimum 
payments by £7.50 each month. I agree this amount is low. But any assessment of affordability should be based upon repayment of the debt over a reasonable period. 
Minimum payments wouldnt achieve that.
Putting things right
As I dont think Halifax shouldve increased Mr Js credit limit from £1,650, I also dont think 
its fair for them to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mr J has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay this back. Therefore, Halifax should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that were applied to balances 
above £1,650. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr J along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. B should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
November 2011 regarding this account from Mr Js credit file. 
Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance remains, Halifax should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr J for that amount. Once the outstanding balance 
has been cleared, any adverse information recorded after November 2011 regarding 
the account should be removed from Mr Js credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
As Halifax has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to provide redress as Ive detailed above 
under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman