DRN-3136907
The complaint
Mrs W complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered to refund the premiums 
she paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 6 August 2019, to cover worldwide trips of up to 45 days duration. 
The policy started on 6 August 2019 and ended on 5 August 2020. 
Mrs W paid a total of £759.63 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level 
of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered her for a number of declared 
medical conditions. 
On 2 June 2020, Mrs W contacted Great Lakes to request a partial refund of her travel 
insurance premium because she said shed only been able to take one holiday and therefore 
had been unable to travel as shed intended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs W that a refund couldnt be provided as her cooling off period 
had expired. But Mrs W wasnt happy with Great Lakes response to her refund request and 
complained to our service.
After Mrs W referred her complaint to us, Great Lakes stated it was prepared to offer a 
partial premium refund of £75.96 due to a change in its approach relating to annual policy 
travel insurance refunds. Mrs W rejected this offer. 
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who acknowledged the 
unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That 
means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 6 August 2019 and the 
policy covered various risks during that time. And they thought the offer Great Lakes had 
made after Mrs W had referred her complaint to our service was fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and confirmed that its 
partial refund offer remained available. But Mrs W didnt agree and requested an 
ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
I can see that Mrs W has made our service aware of how other insurers have dealt with 
travel insurance refund requests. But this service considers complaints on an individual 
basis. So, its not our role to comment on the wider industry issues Mrs W has raised.  
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ws travel insurance policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or the date 
on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later... After the statutory 
cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by contacting us, but no refund of 
premium will be available.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs W to receive the refund of 
the premiums she requested because: 
Cover under Mrs Ws policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance documentation she received. Im satisfied Mrs W 
was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to her policy, which are typical 
of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Mrs W didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of her policy until 2 June 2020. 
And she didnt request the cancellation of her policy at any time. Even if she had 
done during her conversation on 2 June 2020, this would have been outside the 
cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the relevant 
industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have 
prevented Mrs W travelling as shed have liked or intended and that this was beyond 
her control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws 
contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs Ws contract with Great Lakes to be performed  this is because cover under the 
policy started on 6 August 2019.
Mrs W was insured from 6 August 2019 for travelling on any number of worldwide 
trips of up to 45 days duration which she may have taken until the policy expired. Mrs 
W has said she only had the opportunity of travelling once due to the pandemic.
I acknowledge Mrs Ws candour in relation to the travel she said she was able to 
undertake while covered by this policy. But, because of the way annual multi-trip 
insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a 
policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted. Even if there was only one 
holiday, Mrs W made use of her annual policy and Great Lakes was covering the risk 
of a claim during the time the policy was in force.The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs W for the cancellation of any holidays 
which she had booked and was due to take from 6 August 2019 until 5 August 2020. 
So, she would have been covered if she had had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mrs W 
falling ill with her declared pre-existing medical conditions. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mrs W making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of 
holidays, from 6 August 2019 until 5 August 2020. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what 
Mrs Ws cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums 
relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs W contacted Great Lakes on 
2 June 2020 to request a partial refund of her policy premium. By this time, her policy 
had 64 days left to run before it expired.  
Ive already explained that Mrs W didnt cancel her policy at any time. It therefore ran 
to full term until its expiry on 5 August 2020. So, it wouldnt be unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to decline to refund any of the premium Mrs W paid.
After Mrs W referred her complaint to our service, Great Lakes offered to resolve this 
complaint by refunding £75.96 or 10% of the premium she paid. This presents a 
change in Great Lakes initial proposed resolution to Mrs Ws complaint.
I understand that Mrs W feels she should receive a higher premium refund because 
she hasnt been able to use her policy as much as shed intended. But I think Great 
Lakes has acted reasonably here in its offer to resolve Mrs Ws complaint because 
its treated the date she first contacted it in the same way it would have done had she 
requested the cancellation of her policy at that time.
If Mrs W had requested that Great Lakes cancel her policy on 2 June 2020, shed 
have been on cover for around 301 days. Ive seen evidence showing that the refund 
offered was based on the length of time Mrs Ws policy had left to run at the time she 
contacted Great Lakes to discuss a refund  even thought she didnt cancel her 
policy at that point and Great Lakes therefore continued to bear a risk until 5 August 
2020. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint I wouldnt have directed Great Lakes to 
refund any of the premium Mrs W paid. So, I think the offer Great Lakes made to 
refund 10% of the premium paid is both fair and reasonable. 
Mrs W has rejected Great Lakes offer to settle her complaint. However,  the refund it 
offered is still available. Ive clarified that the offer would be paid as a cash settlement 
either via a cheque or by Great Lakes crediting the card Mrs W used to purchase her 
policy. 
To resolve this complaint, Great Lakes should make a payment of £75.96 to Mrs W in 
line with the offer it made. But Im not going to direct it to do anything further.Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should make a cash payment of £75.96 to Mrs W for 
the reasons outlined above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mrs Ws complaint, Great 
Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman