DRN-1856049
The complaint
Mr M complains that BISL Limited provided poor service when he took out motor insurance 
policies through it, leading to an insurer avoiding one of them and not covering a claim.
What happened
Mr M contacted BISL in August 2018 after finding a policy on a comparison website. Hed 
been asked a question online about driving incidents and claims in the last five years and 
hadnt disclosed any. During the call with BISL he confirmed hed provided accurate 
information about claims. BISL arranged the insurance with insurer A based on the details 
Mr M gave. But when BISL checked the claims and underwriting exchange database 
(CUE) it found a claim from 2015. BISL told Mr M about it, but his premium wasnt affected. 
The CUE search didnt find the undisclosed claim Mr M had made in June 2018.
In September 2019 BISL found Mr M a policy with insurer B. Mr M had made two claims 
during the previous year, so insurer B offered cover to him on the basis that hed made three 
claims in the last five years. In November 2019, Mr M made a further claim. In validating it, 
insurer B checked CUE and found the claim from June 2018. It said it wouldnt have offered 
Mr M a policy had it known he had four claims on his policy in September 2019. It avoided 
the policy and didnt deal with the claim.
 
Mr M said BISL should have noted the June 2018 claim on CUE when he bought the policy, 
when he changed his car in December 2018 and in 2019 before it set up the policy with 
insurer B. He said hed had to pay almost £2,000 to repair his car and his premiums had 
risen due to the policy avoidance. In his view, BISL was to blame for all of that. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He said when BISL carried out the 
CUE check (through another business) in September 2018 it had told Mr M the 2015 claim 
he hadnt mentioned had been found. Its letter to him said if the CUE record was correct, he 
need not do anything further. Mr M didnt respond to the letter. The investigator said the 
onus was on Mr M to provide accurate details to BISL and to disclose any other claims. He 
didnt agree with Mr M that BISL should be blamed for the consequences if a claim didnt 
show on CUE. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law (the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations Act 2012  
CIDRA) places a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts 
in answering questions when applying for a policy. I think Mr M should have disclosed the 
claims he made in 2015 and in June 2018 when he completed the online form in 2018. One 
of the claims was made only two months before he did that. 
During his initial call to BISL in August 2018 Mr M was prompted by BISL to think again 
about any claims hed made. The advisor asked him to confirm that hed provided accurate 
details (online) about accidents and claims made in the last five years, and he said he had. 
BISL sent policy documents to Mr M shortly afterwards that showed hed made no claims. 
So he had the chance to think again and inform BISL of the facts at that point too. As he was 
a new customer, BISL then ensured that a check on CUE was carried out. Mr M was given 
yet another chance to amend his details when BISL told him it had found the 2015 claim on 
CUE, but he failed to do that, although the June 2018 claim was very recent. 
Mr Ms previous insurer says it closed the June 2018 claim in September 2018 and that it 
was recorded on CUE. BISLs search on CUE was carried out in that month. Had the June 
2018 claim been showing, I think its fair to say that BISL would have noted it. Mr Ms 
previous insurer told him in March 2020 that the June 2018 claim was showing on CUE  but 
theres no dispute about that, as insurer B had noted it four months earlier. I think its more 
likely than not that the June 2018 claim first showed on CUE shortly after BISLs search was 
done, so it was missed. That doesnt detract from the fact that Mr M didnt disclose it in 
August 2018 online or when he contacted BISL and was asked about claims.  
I dont think it was an error on BISLs part not to carry out another check on CUE when Mr M 
changed his car in December 2018. Brokers and insurers dont usually do that when making 
a mid-term adjustment to a policy.  But in September 2019 BISL offered a renewal quote to 
Mr M. Hed made two more claims in the last year, so BISL thought there were three claims 
on his policy. That was acceptable to insurer B. Mr M was asked to check that the details 
recorded at renewal were accurate and was told that failure to disclose the full facts would 
lead to serious consequences, including a policy avoidance. Mr M didnt correct any details. 
I dont think BISL had a duty to check CUE again at that point. I think it was reasonable for it 
to rely on the information it had from CUE in 2018, from Mr M and from the details of the 
claims hed made during the last year. But I think Mr M had a duty to reconsider his claims 
history during the previous five years again when it was presented to him by BISL in 2019.  
Mr M was left out of pocket as a result of insurer B avoiding the 2019 policy. But I dont think 
that was BISLs fault. Mr M should have disclosed his claims history in 2018 when applying 
for a policy through BISL. He should have thought about it again when BISL told him the 
2015 claim had been found  and again when he took out the 2019 policy. I dont think its 
fair for him to try to shift the focus from his failure to disclose the facts onto BISLs process. 
In my opinion, BISL did all it was required to do, and Mr M hasnt been able to show that it 
acted unreasonably or negligently.
As I think BISL acted reasonably, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman