DRN-1908325
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Arch Insurance (UK) Limited. 
 
What happened
Mr P was on holiday in the USA when he became concerned that he might have skin cancer. 
Having attended a hospital he was told to seek urgent treatment from a specialist within a 
specific window of time. In summary, due to the lack of support he received from Arch in 
accessing treatment from a specialist abroad, Mr P and his wife returned to the UK. This 
caused Mr P a lot of anxiety and distress. And he had to pay to bring their flights forward. 
Mr P accessed treatment in the UK and fortunately nothing serious was identified.
In September 2020 I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ps complaint in part. In 
summary I said that I thought it was understandable Mr P had returned to the UK because 
he was becoming increasingly worried about seeing a specialist within the window of time 
hed been given. I said that I was intending to direct Arch to pay the costs associated with 
changing the flights which was £486, minus one relevant policy excess (which I understood 
to be £75). But I said I was intending to reduce the compensation our investigator awarded 
from £300 to £150. 
Arch accepted my decision and arranged the settlement Id directed them to make. Mr P 
made some further clarifications in relation to what happened. 
In summary, he reiterated that it was accessing specialist treatment that had been the issue 
and the window of time that he needed to be seen in. He said that at no point was he told 
that he could pay and claim for the specialist treatment. He also pointed out that his initial 
consultation cost over $1800 and that the treatment of his condition and a biopsy is likely to 
have cost a lot more than I was intending to award. Finally, he said that he and his wife had 
lost out on 22 days of their holiday, four non-refundable personal training sessions, three 
important planned social occasions and theyd had to hurriedly arrange cover for a number 
of scheduled household maintenance inspections. Taking into account all of the above he 
thought the original recommendation of £300 compensation more fairly reflected the distress 
and inconvenience caused.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Arch has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive taken into account all of the further points and comments Mr P has made but I remain 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Arch to pay £486 towards the cost of the additional 
flights (minus the policy excess) and £150 compensation. I say that because: 
As I explained in my provisional decision Mr P received unclear and conflicting 
advice and information. He was understandably anxious to be seen by a specialist 
within the timescale hed been told to by his treating doctor. He was also caught 
between his insurer and the specialist facility about the billing arrangements for the 
necessary appointment. So, I entirely understand why he returned to the UK in order 
to see someone within the required timescale
In reaching my decision Ive taken into account what should have happened when 
Mr P wanted to access treatment from a specialist. Arch should have been more 
proactive and helpful in arranging for Mr P to get the treatment he needed. Had they 
done so its likely theyd have paid for Mr P to have an appointment. So, thats why I 
think it is reasonable for Arch to cover the cost of Mr P and his wife changing their 
flights. I appreciate that Arch would, in all likelihood have paid far more than this had 
Mr P had treatment in the USA. But, in reaching my decision, I can only take into 
account the financial losses Mr P actually incurred, which were the costs associated 
with changing the flights 
Ive also taken into account what Mr P has told us about the loss of his holiday, his 
wifes personal training session, the missed social occasions and the hurried 
arrangements they needed to make. In relation to the gym sessions Ive taken into 
account what cover Mr P would have had if hed had to curtail his holiday and I dont 
think thats something that is reasonably covered under this policys terms. So, I dont 
think it is fair and reasonable to direct Arch to pay for these. And I think an award of 
£150 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by Mr Ps unexpected 
early return to the UK. Whilst I have a lot of empathy with Mr Ps position, I think 
£150 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
Arch needs to put things right by paying a total of £486 for the additional flight costs (minus 
the relevant policy excess) and £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the poor service Mr P received. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Arch Insurance UK Limited and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman