DRN-3635751
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr F complain about the settlement that Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
offered after they made a claim on their motor insurance policy following the theft of their car. 
Mr F is a named driver on Mrs Fs policy. 
What happened
Mrs Fs car was stolen, and she made a claim on her policy. Admiral offered Mrs F £27,631, 
less the policy excess, in settlement of her claim. But Mrs F was unhappy with this and with 
the time it took Admiral to make a settlement. Mr F said they had spent £18,000 on the car 
and that it was worth nearer £40,000. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admirals 
valuation of the car wasnt fair or reasonable. He thought that because of the amount of work 
done on the car it should increase its offer to the top valuation provided by the guides we 
use, £34,250. But he thought there hadnt been any excessive delays in Admiral making its 
settlement. 
Mr F accepted this. But Admiral replied that it would only look to offer the average valuation 
provided by the trade guides we use, £31,540.50, after discounting a lower outlying 
valuation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs F and Mr F want a fair settlement for the loss of their car. I can 
see that their policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Admirals valuation wasnt fair or reasonable. So Ive checked how 
he came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor trade guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Fs car. 
He discounted one of the three valuations he found because it was out of step with the 
others. I think thats in keeping with our approach. The other two valuations were £28,831 
and £34,250. Admirals offer was outside this range, so I agree it wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Our usual approach is to take an average of the valuations we find in order to reach the 
correct market value. But if we think theres evidence that supports a fair market value being 
closer to the upper or lower end of the valuations then we decide where that fair value is. 
Our Investigator thought the evidence of the work that Mr F had done on his car would place 
it at the top of the valuation range. And I can see that Mr F thought it would be worth more.
But we think the amount of money Mr F has spent on the car since buying it is unlikely to 
make an overall difference to the valuation provided by the guides. This is because:
money the consumer has spent on maintenance generally just keeps the vehicle in 
retail condition  rather than increasing its value. In fact, if money is not spent on 
maintaining the vehicle, it may be valued at less than the guide price.
adding accessories such as satellite navigation or improved radio/CD equipment can 
increase the vehicles value  but not necessarily by as much as the amount the 
consumer spent on the additions and this is or can be taken into account by the 
valuation guides to some extent.
I can see from the invoices provided by Mr F that he spent a large amount on maintaining 
the car in the year before it was stolen, for example replacing corroded and damaged parts. 
And we would consider this to be maintenance that would keep the car in retail condition but 
wouldnt increase its value.
But Mr F also made significant improvements to the car, adding such things as tinted 
windows, heated seats, leather interior, sound-proofing, alloy wheels etc. I cant see that 
these modifications and extras, which were declared on the policy schedule, have been 
taken into account in the valuations. 
Mr F provided evidence of similar cars being sold for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
So, taking into account that the valuations provided by the trade guides dont allow for the 
improvements that Mr F has made to the car. I think a fair and reasonable settlement would 
be the top valuation provided by the trade guides. So I think Admiral should increase its offer 
to Mrs F to £34,250. 
Mr F thought that Admiral had taken too long to make its settlement. But I can see that this 
took just over three weeks from receiving all the required documents. So I cant say that this 
was unfair or unreasonable or requires compensation. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to increase its settlement offer to Mrs F for the 
loss of her car to £34,250, less the policy excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman