DRN-3119592
The complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of his mothers, Mrs Ts estate, about the service provided by 
National Counties Building Society trading as Family Building Society, referred to as the 
business. 
In short, Mr T complains about the following:
The delays in providing a closing statement  from account opening, in 25 April 2019, 
to account closure, in the correct format, containing Mrs Ts name, account number 
and address. 
The delays in providing call recordings with the business dated 6 and 11 March 2020.
oWhen they arrived, the CD casing was broken, preventing him from listening 
to the calls. The password and the call recordings also didnt match. 
A letter, regarding AGM voting, was addressed to Mrs T as if she was alive, despite 
the business being notified of her death.   
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In a final response letter dated 29 April 2020, it 
said:
It previously paid Mr T £200 compensation (in the form of a cheque issued on 17 
April 2020) for the poor service. 
The CD and case were intact when they left. But because Mr T couldnt access the 
call recordings, it would re-send them through its secure online messaging system. 
It doesnt generally produce closing statements, but has done so manually on this 
occasion, along with a covering letter containing all the material information 
requested by Mr T. 
It apologised for sending the AGM documentation in Mrs Ts name, which was done 
before it updated its records.   
Mr T disagreed with the business response. In summary, he said:
He would accept the £200 compensation however, he wasnt happy about using the 
secure online messaging system and wanted another CD sent out. He requested an 
additional £50 compensation, as a gesture of goodwill, for the poor service. 
He wasnt happy about the format and time taken by the business to send the closing 
letter, which it couldve done a lot sooner.  
He wanted another £125 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the AGM 
letter. 
In a response dated 5 April 2020, which shouldve read 5 May 2020, the business said that it 
was unwilling to pay Mr T any further compensation. Subsequently, Mr T received another 
letter from the business, suggesting that his complaint was vexatious, and that he was free 
to take his business elsewhere or words to that effect. 
Mr T responded to the business and in summary said his request for additional 
compensation was reasonable given all the time he spent dealing with the complaint. 
In due course, Mr T referred the complaint to our service. As a gesture of goodwill and a 
genuine acknowledgement of its errors, hed like the business to pay him a total of £225 
compensation. 
After a jurisdiction ruling, one of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it 
should be upheld. In summary, the he said:
The AGM letter was clearly sent in error, but the business has explained that this was 
done before its records were updated. Whilst he empathises with Mr T, the 
businesss explanation and compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Whilst he appreciates that Mr T was unhappy with the initial format of the closing 
statement, the business has adequately explained why this was the case. He doesnt 
think the business has behaved unreasonably. 
Given our rules, Mr T (as the representative of Mrs Ts estate), cant be considered 
for compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. Therefore, hes unable to 
ask the business to increase its offer of compensation. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he said:
He doesnt think that the rules the investigator follows are fair as, he cant even 
explain or defend them. 
Hes unhappy with the investigators handling of this complaint.  
Despite the investigator suggesting the complaint was out of jurisdiction, the 
ombudsman who considered the issue again, quite rightly thought the investigator 
should investigate the three issues that he (Mr T) originally raised.
For the record, hes a customer of the business. And the ombudsman quite rightly 
acknowledged the grossly offensive comments made to him by the business.
He finds it incredible that he can be reasonably expected to suffer trouble and upset 
in pursuing this complaint on behalf of his late mother.  
The CD couldve been sent in a padded envelope.
Due to the wording of the AGM letter he feels the business was aware of his mothers 
death but still sent out the letter in her name.  
The investigator having considered the issues wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr T says, I dont think the business 
has behaved in such a way that the complaint should be upheld. Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ts strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the loss of his 
mother last year. I appreciate this must be a difficult time for him. 
Mr T has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Im aware of the background to this complaint, but its not something that I need to go 
through in this decision. For the record, I also agree with the ombudsman managers 
decision regarding jurisdiction.  
At the outset, I think its important for me to clarify that whilst I dont doubt that Mr A has 
suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with this complaint, I should make clear that 
under the rules governing our service, Mr T (as the executor and representative of Mrs Ts 
estate) as well as the estate of Mrs T, arent entitled to any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Im aware that Mr A thinks that he should be eligible to receive compensation in pursuing this 
complaint on behalf of his mother, and that another £175/£225 isnt unreasonable. Be that as 
it may, I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by 
its customer, not by a third-party representing the customer. Therefore, in this instance, Mr T 
isnt entitled to any compensation, and the estate of Mrs T is only entitled to financial loss. 
Even if I was to uphold this complaint, which I dont, Im unable say that any of the issues 
raised by Mr T have caused a financial loss to the estate of Mrs T. 
I appreciate that Mr T says hes is a customer of the business in his own right and I dont 
dispute that. But in this instance, hes complaining on behalf of the estate of Mrs T, and not 
in relation to a complaint that hes brought on behalf of himself. I hope that this clarifies the 
matter for Mr T. 
Im mindful that the business has already agreed to pay or has paid Mr T in total £300 
compensation  comprised of the £200 mentioned in its last final response letter and another 
£100 before that  for various issues raised. Its a matter for the business whether it keeps to 
this agreement if it hasnt done so, although I would expect it to do so. 
Whether or not it agrees to pay any more money is a matter for the business, Im simply 
unable to ask it to pay Mr T any compensation for distress and inconvenience caused in 
pursuing this complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs T. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the business has 
done anything wrong by sending Mr T the CD in the post. 
I understand that the CD didnt work, the passwords didnt match, and the case was broken. 
But I note the business agreed to re-send the calls to via a secure online messaging system, but Mr T didnt want this. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to say that the 
business behaved unreasonably. 
Its likely that the CD was damaged in transition. If that was the case, it wasnt the business 
doing, therefore I cant blame the business for the actions of a third-party postal service. I 
appreciate what Mr T says about the packaging, but I cant say the business behaved 
unreasonably by not putting the CD in a different envelope.  
On balance, Im satisfied that the business took reasonable steps to try and comply with Mr 
Ts request for the relevant phone calls. Despite what Mr T says, I dont think the business 
deliberately sent him a mismatching/incorrect password so that he couldnt access the calls. 
Its possible that his computer wasnt compatible with the CD format, if that was the case, I 
cant hold the business responsible for this.      
Im mindful of Mr Ts comments about the closing statement, but on the face of the evidence 
and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
I understand that the business doesnt usually provide a closing statement and certainly not 
in the manner requested by Mr T, but on this occasion, it produced a statement manually. In 
the circumstances I dont think the business behaved unreasonably, just because an initial    
manually produced  statement didnt match Mr Ts choice of format. I understand that the 
business has subsequently provided a statement, with all the relevant information, thats 
acceptable to Mr T.  
I note the business has already apologised to Mr T for sending the AGM documentation in 
Mrs Ts name, after it was notified of her death. Sadly, these things can happen from time to 
time, but I dont think it was done deliberately and certainly not to try and cause Mr T any 
upset. 
In this instance, and on balance, it seems like the AGM letter had already been produced, 
containing important information relating to the government lockdown announcement, and 
therefore was sent in bulk to all its customers  and unfortunately it was also sent to Mrs T. 
Its possible that this was a computer-generated error, but Im unable to say that this has 
impacted Mrs Ts estate in any way. 
I appreciate Mr T will be thoroughly disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman