DRN-3240178
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was misled into buying a replacement kitchen door with a loan 
provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited. She says too that she was unreasonably pressured 
into the purchase and not given proper information about the seller. She is represented by H, 
a claims management company. 
What happened
In August 2019 Ms M entered into a contract with a company which Ill call C Ltd for the 
purchase and installation of a replacement kitchen door. To finance the purchase, she took 
out a 10-year loan with Shawbrook, arranged by C Ltd.
In or about June 2020 H complained to Shawbrook on behalf of Ms M. It said that Ms M had 
been misled about the company selling the product. Specifically, the intermediary had been 
named as Z, a company which had ceased trading some two years before the purchase. Ms 
M had not been told about proceedings brought against Z in 2017 for unfair trading 
practices. H said too that Ms M had herself been subjected to unfair trading practices; it 
referred to the length of time that the salesperson had spent with Ms M in her home and said 
that she had been offered a false discount. 
H has not suggested that there was any issue with the quality of the goods supplied or the 
work done. 
Shawbrook did not accept that it had done anything wrong, and H referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator considered what had happened but did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. H, on behalf of Ms M, did not accept the 
investigators opinion and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms complaint is that Shawbrook is responsible for the actions of C Ltd  and in particular 
for its conduct of the sale of the replacement window and of the loan agreement. She says 
too that Shawbrook should have provided more information about the seller. 
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the price of goods falls within certain financial limits;
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
I am satisfied that the necessary conditions were met here.
The effect of section 56 of the same Act is that, in negotiating the sale and the loan 
agreement, C Ltd is to be taken as acting as the agent of Shawbrook. That is, statements 
made by C Ltd about the goods, their installation or the loan are treated as if they were 
statements made by Shawbrook.
H has also referred to The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. 
Those regulations prohibit certain practices in consumer contracts, including, for example: 
claiming that a deal will only be available for a limited time; refusing to leave a customers 
home when asked to do so; giving misleading advice about the price  of a product; and 
giving misleading information about the trader.
H says that Shawbrook took a loan application from Z Ltd, a company that had ceased 
trading in August 2017. That is, however, a misunderstanding of the position. 
The sales contract defined Us We and Our as C Ltd and said that C Ltd was an 
appointed representative of another company, which Ill call O Ltd. Section 3 of the 
agreement said that the agreement was made between C Ltd (trading as Z) and Ms M. The 
loan agreement said that Z (not Z Ltd) was the credit intermediary. 
The position was therefore that Ms Ms agreement was with C Ltd and that Z was a trading 
name of C Ltd. The loan agreement referred to Z, but that was simply a name used by C Ltd. 
It was not a company or other legal entity in its own right. 
O Ltd was, according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys register, an authorised credit 
intermediary from January 2016 until February 2021. C Ltd was its appointed representative 
from March 2018 until February 2021. 
I do not therefore accept that Ms M was misled about the seller or the credit intermediary. 
The identities of the parties involved were in the sale and loan documentation. It appears too 
that the necessary FCA authorisations were in place at the relevant time. 
As I have indicated, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act makes Shawbrook liable for any 
claim in misrepresentation in the same way that C Ltd would have been. A misrepresentation 
is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which induces someone into 
a contract, causing loss. I am not persuaded however that Ms M was induced into the 
purchase or the loan by untrue statements made by C Ltd, or that she has suffered loss. H 
says that Ms M was told that Z had been trading for many years and that she was given an 
inflated price to give the impression of a bargain. 
There is however little evidence to support these assertions. In any event, I am not 
persuaded that these statements, if they were made, induced Ms M to buy the replacement 
door or that she has suffered any loss as a result. Were I to require Shawbrook to cancel the 
loan agreement and return all payments (as H claims should happen), the effect would be to 
provide Ms M with a replacement door for nothing. That would not be fair. 
H has also referred to The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008. 
Those regulations prohibit certain practices in consumer contracts, including, for example: 
claiming that a deal will only be available for a limited time; refusing to leave a customers 
home when asked to do so; giving misleading advice about the price of a product; and 
giving misleading information about the trader.
Hs arguments are, to a large degree, that C Ltd acted in breach of these regulations. For 
example, H says that Ms M was initially given a price much higher than that which she 
paid, but was given a discount for agreeing to enter into the loan agreement. The 
salesman was asked to leave her home but refused to do so. All of these matters  and others  meant that Ms M felt under pressure to agree to both the purchase and the 
finance agreement.
I note however that these regulations do not give any direct rights to consumers affected by 
any breach of them of them. Rather, they give certain bodies the right to take enforcement 
action, which can lead to fines or imprisonment. A finance provider, such as Shawbrook, is 
not directly responsible for any breach of those regulations on the part of a third party  
although in some circumstances it may be liable under section 56 or section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act.  
I am not persuaded in this case however that Shawbrook has treated Ms M unfairly.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman