DRN-3564220
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), unfairly 
turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mrs K is represented 
by a professional representative (PR). 
What happened
In November 2014 Mrs K purchased a trial membership with a company I will call C. The 
payment was routed through a company I will call F. It cost £4,481.35 of which £500 was 
paid via her Barclays credit card account. The balance was paid by a loan from another 
business. This entitled Mrs K to 5 weeks accommodation at some 50 resorts.
In November 2018 PR submitted a claim to Barclays under s. 75 CAA. saying that Mrs K 
only used her trial membership twice and the product had been misrepresented. Barclays 
rejected the claim and said there was no debtor-creditor- supplier (DCS) agreement in 
place as she had made payment to F rather than C.
The claim was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He took the view that F was acting as a payment 
processor for C and so there was a valid DCS agreement in place. However, he didnt 
consider there was sufficient evidence of misrepresentation.
A new PR didnt agree and said the original claim was incorrect. It said that Mrs K had not 
been able to take any holidays. It noted that she had sought to take holidays in France and 
Australia, but had not been able to with C. It had advised her to book with other suppliers. 
PR also argued that the other lender had not properly considered the affordability of the 
loan. Our investigator didnt consider there was evidence of misrepresentation and also 
noted that Barclays was not responsible for any financial checks on the payment made by 
Mrs K using her credit card.
PR asked that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, statements made by a supplier in relation to a 
transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing arrangements between a 
credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to 
certain conditions, bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part;
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements.
I am satisfied the payment made using the credit card was made to C via F as a payment 
processor and so there is a DCS agreement for me to consider. I note the bank has not 
suggested otherwise to this service.
I have not addressed some of the points made by the original PR as it has been pointed out 
that their submission contained notable errors and the facts do not support the claims it 
made.
Misrepresentation
In general, I think that the evidence of any statements made leading up to the sale and 
evidence that they were untrue is very vague in this case. I would expect to see a much 
clearer and more detailed account of what happened. Since Mrs K says she has been 
unable to make bookings, I would expect also to see evidence of her unsuccessful attempts 
to do so.
The trial membership offered Mrs K access to some 50 resorts, but it seems she wanted to 
take her holidays in places where C did not have facilities. That does not mean that it either 
misrepresented the product or breached any contract. I have not seen any evidence that she 
sought to make use of Cs resorts or that it was unable to provide access to accommodation. 
All I have seen is confirmation that C did not have resorts where Mrs K wanted to holiday. 
She has not claimed that she was led to believe that she could take holidays in those places 
with C and I cannot see how this can be regarded as misrepresentation. 
That is not to say that I do not believe what Mrs K has said via PR. However, I do not think 
that  on the basis of what I have seen  there is enough for me to conclude that it would be 
fair to uphold the complaint about the banks response to the s. 56 and s. 75 claims. It 
follows too that I do not believe that a court is likely to make an order under s.140A and s. 
140B of the Act  under which a court can review the terms of a consumer credit agreement 
if it creates and unfair relationship.
As for the issue of affordability it is not a matter for Barclays. The PR has raised this point 
with regard to the other lender and so it is not relevant to this complaint. Barclays provided a 
credit card and it was not responsible for considering if this transaction was affordable. Mrs 
K kept within her credit limit and I cannot conclude Barclays did anything wrong in this 
regard.
In conclusion, I thought that the banks response to Mrs Ks claims was reasonable, and I do 
not consider I can uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman