DRN-3609219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a Virgin One mortgage account they held with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). They are unhappy with the redress RBS has offered 
them for the losses they suffered from the sale of the mortgaged property, due to RBS 
proposing to reduce their borrowing facility in 2013 and 2014. 
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with RBS for £117,500 over 18 years to match 
Mr S anticipated retirement. This appears to be a re-mortgage on Mr and Mrs S existing 
property which repaid the existing mortgage and allowed some debt consolidation. The 
amount of the borrowing facility was increased twice in 2001, and then again in the spring of 
2005. The latter was used for the purchase of Mr and Mrs S property overseas. The facility 
was again increased at the end of 2005 for debt consolidation purposes to £192,500 and the 
term was also extended to October 2023.
In April 2006 Mr and Mrs S applied to move the mortgage to a different property with a 
reduced borrowing facility of £155,000 and the same end date. A mortgage offer was made, 
but it doesnt appear that the purchase went through due to Mr and Mrs S own sale falling 
through. 
However, another application was started in October 2006, which was again accepted. This 
was for a move to the property (the mortgaged property) that would subsequently sold in 
2014. The borrowing facility on the account was reduced to £159,969 and the term was 
extended to 17 years and six months again, which by the time the purchase went through, 
meant the mortgage was due to be repaid in the autumn of 2024. The borrowing facility was 
automatically increased in 2007 to £170,000. Mr and Mrs S then asked for the facility to be 
increased to £180,000, which was applied in February 2008. A further request was made in 
the summer of 2008, but as the application would involve a revaluation of the property at 
Mr and Mrs S cost, they decided not to pursue it. 
In the autumn of 2009, Mr and Mrs S requested that the borrowing facility be reduced to 
£145,000. This appears to be as a result of Mr S reducing the account balance from his 
pension lump sum. This was followed a couple of month later by a request to increase the 
facility by £3,000, which was granted. 
In May 2012 Mr and Mrs S asked RBS for consent to let out their property. This request was 
granted. 
The concept of the mortgage account Mr and Mrs S chose was to provide a flexible 
borrowing resource for consumers. It allowed additional borrowing up to a facility limit 
without the need for the borrowers to have to go through further application processes. It 
also gave them flexibility around paying the capital. In Mr and Mrs S case, the borrowing 
was on a capital and interest basis, so they were expected to reduce the amount owed 
gradually over the term. However, all they were required to pay on a regular monthly basis 
was the interest and they were allowed to reduce the capital debt as and when they wanted 
and in the manner they wanted. For example, they could reduce the capital amount owing on 
a monthly basis as they would have if they had taken a traditional repayment mortgage, or 
they could make ad-hoc larger reductions as and when funds were available. 
The repayment of the capital amount was entirely flexible and in the control of the borrowers, 
but it was also their responsibility to ensure that they made enough payments throughout the 
term to repay the capital by the end of the borrowing term. However, in order to assist them, 
RBS gave Mr and Mrs S guidance about reducing the debt during the term when they 
originally arranged the borrowing and when the borrowing facility or term was changed. 
These guides set out what amounts RBS would have expected the borrowing to have been 
reduced to at key points over the term in order to facilitate repayment of the debt. RBS also 
sent regular information about the progress of the repayment arrangement against the 
guidance given  detailing whether the borrowers were ahead of or behind where RBS 
would have expected them to be.
From 2012 onward, RBS started reviewing the arrangements for this type of mortgage. It did 
this following the financial crash a few years earlier, after which the mortgage industry had 
concluded that accounts such as the Virgin One account where there was flexible lending 
and no reduction in the borrowing facility, represented a higher risk to borrowers than they 
had previously been thought to. As such, it was decided that borrowing limits should 
gradually be reduced to support the debt being paid off over the borrowing term. 
On 13 November 2012 RBS wrote to Mr and Mrs S about the balance of their mortgage. It 
highlighted that when they arranged the facility, they had chosen to repay most of the 
borrowing gradually over the mortgage term, but they hadnt kept track with the expected 
reductions. RBS asked them to get in touch if they werent in a position to reduce the debt to 
the level it needed to be to ensure the borrowing was repaid by the end of the term. RBS 
would then take them through the options available to them.  Mr S spoke to RBS and it 
agreed to only reduce the facility by £1 in December 2012, but then the facility would reduce 
annually thereafter. This was confirmed in writing, as was the reduction of the facility from 
£147,99 to £137,999 in December 2013. At that time, Mr S told RBS that he and Mrs S 
would be paying capital off the mortgage by selling their overseas property.
Mr and Mrs S didnt make any capital repayments in 2013. In the middle of 2013 
Mr and Mrs S enquired about increasing the borrowing facility to buy a share of the freehold 
of the block of flats their property was part of. At that time it was recorded that Mr S income 
was £22,000 from a pension and Mrs S income was £12,000 from renting the mortgaged 
property. RBS refused to increase the facility limit on affordability grounds.
In October 2013 RBS contacted Mr and Mrs S again and confirmed that the borrowing 
facility would be reduced. Unfortunately, there was an error in the letter, and it said that the 
reduction would be applied in December 2014, rather than December 2013, as had been 
previously discussed with Mr S and as was planned. The reduction was then applied in 
December 2013. Mr S called RBS, unhappy at the reduction having been applied before the 
October 2013 letter had said it would be. The facility was reinstated, and it was confirmed to 
Mr and Mrs S that the reduction wouldnt be applied until December 2014.
At the beginning of 2014 Mr S spoke to RBS several times and it was confirmed that they 
would be able to make the necessary payments to reduce the borrowing to the right level by 
the end of 2014. The matter was dealt with as a complaint, which resulted in the facility 
reduction being delayed further; until January 2015. While Mr and Mrs S told RBS that they 
could pay the necessary capital off the mortgage in 2014, they explained to this service that 
the decision to sell the mortgaged property was because they couldnt afford the capital 
payments needed.Mr and Mrs S sold the property in April 2014 and the mortgage was paid off. They also sold 
their existing overseas property in May 2014, and purchased another in July 2014 using 
some of the equity from the mortgaged property. Mr and Mrs S told RBS that they werent 
sure about what had happened to the remaining equity. They mentioned the possibility of an 
investment, but also using some of the money to renovate the new overseas property. The 
new overseas property was sold in early 2017. Mr and Mrs S appear to have then moved 
back to the UK and bought a property in the same county as the mortgaged property, but in 
a different town around 70 miles away. The new property was significantly larger than the 
RBS mortgaged property and Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage of £180,000 with a different 
lender to buy it. This property was sold in November 2019. Mr and Mrs S have told us they 
have been in rented accommodation since.
In 2019 RBS contacted Mr and Mrs S about the mortgage account theyd held with it. It said 
that it had completed a review and come to the conclusion that its communications about the 
type of mortgage Mr and Mrs S had, between 2012 and 2014 could have been clearer. It had 
also concluded that some customers had taken actions that it hadnt intended them to. RBS 
went on to say that it believed that Mr and Mrs S might have been influenced to sell their 
home and it apologised if that were the case. It, therefore, offered to reimburse them for the 
costs of selling their home, plus interest. In addition, it offered them £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd been caused by the handling of their concerns in December 2013. 
RBS also said that if Mr and Mrs S could evidence further costs, it would be happy to review 
any information they provided to ensure its offer was appropriate. 
Mr and Mrs S explained to RBS what they believed their loss was. RBS changed its offer, 
which totalled £45,096.38. It explained that the increase to the offer was to take account of 
the capital appreciation that Mr and Mrs S would have benefitted from, had they not sold the 
property. It confirmed its figure had been based on the House Price Index (HPI) filtered to 
properties in the relevant town. This had produced a capital appreciation of £75,599.22 
between April 2014 (when the property was sold) and February 2020. However, RBS then 
offset that figure as A + B  C - D, where:
A £10,638.96 representing the HPI estimate of the capital appreciation in the property 
they bought in 2017. 
B £34,587.55 of interest that Mr and Mrs S would have paid on the RBS mortgage 
between the sale and the calculation date.
C £7,850.10 proportionate interest paid on the new mortgage from 2017.
D £2,768.98 interest that Mr and Mrs S would have benefitted from by having the equity 
from the sale in April 2014 in savings or investments.
Interest was added to the resultant sum. RBS also maintained its offer in relation to the £400 
compensation payment.
Interest was added to the resultant sum. RBS also maintained its offer in relation to the cost 
of selling the property in April 2014 and £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs S suffered from the handling of the 2013 complaint.  Mr and Mrs S accepted the 
offer, however, they remained unhappy with the amount and how it had been calculated.
Further discussions took place and in August 2021 RBS issued its final decision on the 
matter. It said that it had come to the conclusion that it had been wrong when it had 
concluded that the sale of the property had happened solely because of its communications 
in 2013 about the repayment guide plan. As such, the payment it had made to them for the 
cost of selling the property shouldnt have been paid. This was because Mr and Mrs S had 
told it that they would be using the sale value of their overseas property to repay the 
mortgage. Having calculated how much that property would likely have been worth by the 
end of the mortgage term, it wouldnt have been enough to pay off the mortgage, and so the mortgaged property would have had to be sold. However, RBS said it would maintain the 
offer of the sale costs as a gesture of goodwill and wasnt asking Mr and Mrs S to repay the 
money. 
In addition, RBS awarded £1,000 distress and inconvenience for the experience the poor 
communications in 2013 and 2014 had caused them. However, as it had paid them over 
£6,000 for sale costs, which it shouldnt have, RBS said it wouldnt be paying them more. 
That said, RBS offered Mr and Mrs S £75 for their time to take part in the review, £550 
because some of their issues and points werent addressed, and £500 for the poor service 
they received during the review due to the change in outcome. RBS offered Mr and Mrs S a 
further £1,125.
However, RBS didnt think it was responsible for the then current position Mr and Mrs S 
found themselves in and explained in detail why. RBS went on to explain why it had used the 
HPI for the area in which Mr and Mrs S mortgaged property was in and declined to change 
that. However, it updated the calculation, as at February 2020, because further data was 
available about the HPI. This increased the appreciation figure to £80,204.78. 
RBS then explained why it had taken into account the appreciation of UK property bought in 
2017, and confirmed it thought it had been right to do this. However, as the property had 
been sold in December 2019, it considered that the actual increase in value of the property 
should be taken into consideration, rather than the HPI figure it had used. This being 
£34,000, rather than the slightly over £10,000 used in the previous calculation. RBS 
expanded on its deduction of the interest payments that would have been made to the 
mortgage with it and maintained it was right to take these payments into account when the 
loss was calculated. However, as the property had been sold in November 2019, the amount 
of interest would have been £6,911.85. 
RBS said that the revised figures showed that there was a period where Mr and Mrs S had 
less cash available to them because of the early sale of the property and it added interest for 
that period - £2,302.59. The revised calculation showed that Mr and Mrs S had suffered a 
loss of £16,226.48 due to selling the property earlier than they otherwise would have. RBS 
confirmed that it would honour its previous offer and not ask for the difference to be paid 
back. 
Mr and Mrs S asked this service to consider their complaint. They told us that as they hadnt 
been able reduce the balance of the mortgage to what RBS wanted it to be by the date itd 
told them it would be reducing the facility, they decided to sell their home. Theyve told us 
they sold it with a rent-back arrangement, so that their two children could remain living in the 
property for up to a year, thereby enabling them to find alternative accommodation. In 
addition, they said they lived in their overseas properties and also stayed with relatives at 
times. In 2017 they bought their new UK property, but its distance from the town in which the 
mortgaged property had been in, meant that they didnt have family support. That property 
was sold in late 2019 and initially Mr and Mrs S moved into rented accommodation on the 
south coast, and then later to rented accommodation in a different county even further away 
from their original property. They have told us that in order to buy the 2017 UK property they 
both had to return to full-time work and, after Mrs S lost her job, they werent able to afford 
the mortgage and had to sell. Following that theyve had to live in rented accommodation as 
they couldnt afford to buy anywhere else. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He accepted RBS position that the 
mortgaged property would have needed to have been sold at the end of the term, because 
the overseas property wouldnt have been worth enough to pay off the mortgage. However, 
he asked RBS to recalculate the loss based on a calculation date at the end of the mortgage 
term in 2024.RBS didnt agree to do that. It explained that when calculating redress in this situation it 
didnt project forward, as it wasnt possible to know what would happen with the housing 
markets. In this particular case, it was also impossible to know when Mr and Mrs S would 
have sold the property.
Our investigator issued his opinion to the parties. He again agreed with RBS that the 
property would always have had to be sold to repay the mortgage. As such, RBS hadnt 
needed to pay Mr and Mrs S the sum it had for the costs of selling the property (at just over 
£6,000). While he accepted the principles of the calculation RBS had done were reasonable, 
he considered that the calculation should be done to a point three months before the end of 
the mortgage term in 2024. In relation to the compensation payments for the upset and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs S had suffered, he thought that when these were added to the 
sale cost overpayment, it was in excess of the amount we would have asked RBS to pay.
Mr and Mrs S didnt initially comment on the investigators conclusions. They asked whether 
RBS had legally been able to reduce the borrowing facility on their mortgage. The 
investigator confirmed that if they wanted an opinion about the legality of an act, they would 
need to refer the question to an independent legal adviser.
RBS didnt accept the investigators view. It said that, other than some pension complaints, it 
was standard practice to crystalise loss as at the date of the final response to a complaint in 
which it made an offer. This is because once a consumer is compensated, they have the 
funds available to them to mitigate any future loss. It also reiterated how difficult it would be 
to project forward to obtain an accurate figure for a property value several years in the 
future. 
Our investigator considered RBS comments, but he didnt change his opinion. 
Mr and Mrs S said that they considered that the overall national figure for the HPI should be 
used in calculating the redress payable to them, rather than it being filtered to the town their 
property had been in. In addition, they said that RBS should potentially settle the complaint 
based on a figure for their property to the current date and then a compensatory sum for the 
years 2022 to 2024. Finally, they reiterated that it didnt seem fair to them that the profit they 
made on the property they bought in 2017 was taken into account in the calculations, as it 
was attributable to the renovations they completed to the property. 
RBS provided some clarification as to how it had completed the calculation, including that all 
factors had been calculated to February 2020. While the assessment of Mr and Mrs S first 
overseas property had been projected forward to 2024, that was solely to assess whether it 
would have been an adequate repayment vehicle. That sum hadnt been used in the redress 
calculation. It again highlighted that it was normal practice to crystalise a loss at the date of 
the redress calculation, as there was no way to know what would happen in the future. As 
Mr and Mrs S were redressed when they accepted the offer in February 2020, RBS didnt 
consider there was any reason for them continuing to suffer any loss., as they were in a 
position to mitigate any future loss. As such it remained satisfied that there was no reason to 
re-visit the redress calculation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt from that decision.
The first matter on this case that I must consider is whether Mr and Mrs S would have had to sell the mortgaged property. Having reviewed the account details, it is clear that other 
than using part of Mr S pension lump sum to reduce the balance, they didnt make any 
capital payments throughout the term. This isnt how the mortgage was mean to work  it 
was a capital and interest arrangement, which meant that the capital was meant to reduce 
throughout. It wasnt unreasonable for RBS to have raised the issue of capital reduction 
when it did in 2012. It appears from Mr and Mrs S submissions that they never intended to 
make capital repayments during the term, and were relying on the value of their overseas 
property to cover the remaining balance after Mr S pension payment was taken off the 
balance. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that they believe they would have owned the property outright at the 
end of the term in 2024 and so the calculation should be completed to that date and they 
should be compensated for the situation they will be in going forward. RBS has projected the 
value of the first overseas property forward, based on its value in 2014 when it was sold. 
How it has done this seems to have been a reasonable approach. This showed that the 
value of the overseas property was likely to be significantly short of the sum that was needed 
to clear the mortgage. As such, I agree with RBS and our investigator, that it is likely that the 
property would have had to be sold, as Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have had enough capital to 
repay the mortgage. 
In light of this, the redress calculation should be based on the assumption that the property 
would have been sold. This means that the c£6,000 that RBS paid to Mr and Mrs S in 2020 
for the costs associated with selling the property werent funds they were due to receive, as 
they would always have had to pay that money out when they sold the property. That said, 
the question then becomes when it is likely they would have sold. In 2012 Mr and Mrs S 
asked RBS for consent to let the property out. It appears that they may have rented it to their 
children thereafter, but also to others who were not related. So from 2012 the property 
ceased to be their residence but its possible that when Mr and Mrs S decided to return to 
the UK, they would have moved back into the property. Equally, its possible they wouldnt 
have. 
I also note that when Mr and Mrs S sold the mortgaged property, they invested some of the 
equity from the property in buying a different property overseas. Presumably this would have 
been either to upgrade the nature of the property or the area in which they would be living. 
Following the sale of that property in 2017, Mr and Mrs S returned to the UK. Theyve told us 
that they couldnt afford to buy in the same area as the property theyd sold in 2014. I see no 
reason to question that statement. However, at that point, they had sufficient funds to 
purchase, in the area they chose to buy, a property equivalent to the one they had sold in 
2014 for little more than they had available in cash. They chose not to do so and to take out 
significantly larger mortgage to buy a four-bedroom house, rather than a two-bedroom flat. 
This again brings into question whether Mr and Mrs S would have kept the mortgaged 
property until the end of the term.
Overall, I think it is impossible to know whether Mr and Mrs S would have kept the mortgage 
property until the end of the term, or indeed, when they would have sold it. I also have to 
agree with RBS that it is normal for a loss in circumstances such as these to be crystallised 
at the date an error is acknowledged, and redress calculated. So, I am satisfied that it was 
appropriate for RBS to calculate redress as February 2020 when it made an offer. I will now 
consider the different elements of the redress.
The starting point of the redress is the loss of appreciation in the value of the mortgaged 
property. Both Mr and Mrs S and RBS agree that this should be assessed using HPI, but in 
slightly different ways. RBS filtered the HPI to reflect the town the mortgaged property was 
in. Mr and Mrs S dont want that filter used, as it would take into account of prices in poorer 
areas within the town. I can see why Mr and Mrs S would like the average for the whole country used as it produces a higher figure. However, I am satisfied that it was entirely 
reasonable for RBS to filter the HPI as it did to calculate the core appreciation figure.
From this, RBS has deducted a sum of mortgage interest. This is the amount that, had 
Mr and Mrs S kept the mortgage until February 2020, they would have been required to pay 
in mortgage interest. While Mr and Mrs S have said they think that RBS is deducting all the 
interest they would have paid during the remainder of the term, having reviewed the 
calculation, I can assure them that the deduction RBS proposed was only the interest that 
would have been paid between the point the mortgage was repaid and the date of the 
calculation in February 2020. Given that the mortgage interest is something that would have 
needed to be paid for the property to have been owned by Mr and Mrs S during that period, 
and so needed in order to create the appreciation figure, I consider it was reasonable for 
RBS to deduct that amount from the calculation.
The next item to consider is the money that Mr and Mrs S made on the UK property they 
bought in 2017. I can understand why they dont want this sum taken into account. However, 
if Mr and Mrs S are to receive the appreciation on the mortgaged property, that is done on 
the basis that they would have continued to own that property. If that had happened, it 
logically follows that they wouldnt have bought the UK property in 2017 and wouldnt have 
profited from the transaction. As such, it is reasonable that the appreciation on that property 
is taken into account. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that the amount appreciation in the 2017 UK property was down to 
renovations they made on the property. They were asked for information about this and 
confirmed that they completed what would be considered maintenance, in that they 
decorated and had the chimney re-pointed, but they also installed a shower room where 
there had previously been a downstairs toilet/utility room. Having considered the matter 
carefully, I think that some of the appreciation in the property may well have been attributed 
to the installation of the shower room (and spend to do so). As such, it wouldnt be 
appropriate for RBS to take all of the appreciation into account in the calculation  any 
attributed to the addition of a shower room. However, that said some of the appreciation 
would have happened even if the property hadnt been improved. So it wouldnt been 
appropriate for none of the appreciation to be taken into account in the calculation, as it was 
money that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have had if theyd retained ownership of the mortgaged 
property. I would also comment that the addition of curtain rails etc and new curtains, would 
be considered fixtures and fittings, which wouldnt factor into the value of the property.
RBS has also factored into the calculation the interest that Mr and Mrs S paid on the 
property they purchased in 2017. This is money that wouldnt have been paid out, but for the 
sale of the mortgaged property. So it was reasonable for RBS to add it back into the redress 
calculation as a loss. 
The final figure for the redress calculated taking the full appreciation of the 2017 UK property 
was slightly over £16,000. Even if only the basic appreciation figure for that property were 
taken into account, that figure would only increase to around £40,000. This would still be 
thousands of pounds less than RBS has already paid Mr and Mrs S. So I dont consider that 
it would be reasonable for me to require it to make any further payment for the financial 
losses they suffered.
I have also considered the further losses Mr and Mrs S have attributed to having to sell the 
mortgaged property. Theyve explained that they were unable to maintain the 2017 mortgage 
and have subsequently had to move into rented one-bedroom accommodation. I am not 
persuaded that a further award is appropriate in this respect. It was Mr and Mrs S decision 
to buy the property they did in 2017 and take the mortgage they did. I cant hold RBS 
responsible for the consequences of that decision.I now turn to the matter of the compensation awards RBS has made. It has confirmed that it 
has awarded:
£400 for how it dealt with the complaint raised in December 2013.
£1,000 for the poor communications in 2013 and 2014. It has offset this against the 
selling costs that Mr and Mrs S were paid.
£75 for the time they spent participating in the review.
£550 because issues and points raised following Mr and Mrs S informing RBS that the 
initial offer was inadequate, were not addressed until 2021.
£500 for the upset it changing its decision caused.
Our rules set out the matters that we can look into a complaint about. These being; regulated 
activities, payment services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary 
banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities carried on 
in connection with regulated activities.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. However, that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rules; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers. For clarity, a complaint is considered to be an expression 
of dissatisfaction by a consumer. 
While the last two compensation amounts above have been expressed by RBS as relating to 
the review process, I am satisfied that by the time the issues these payments covered 
happened, the matter was being dealt with as a complaint. This is supported by the fact that 
RBS included referral rights to this service, which is what it is required to do when sending a 
complaint response.  As such, the first, fourth and fifth compensation payment above are in 
relation to complaint handling, and they are not something that I am able to comment on 
further. That said, I believe the payments are still available to Mr and Mrs S if they wish to 
accept them.
The third of the compensation payments is a gesture for the time that Mr and Mrs S spent on 
dealing with the correspondence to do with the review. Administration of a regulated 
mortgage is something that I can consider. Having considered the time and effort 
Mr and Mrs S would have had to put into making and evidencing their initial response to the 
review letter, I believe the £75 payment is fair.
I now turn to the upset and inconvenience selling their property earlier than they otherwise 
would have will have caused Mr and Mrs S. As I have found that the property would have 
had to be sold at some point anyway, compensation wouldnt take the sale being needed 
into account. It is difficult to assess this issue, as its not entirely clear exactly what would 
have happened had the property not been sold in 2014. RBS has awarded £1,000, which is 
a significant amount of compensation, and I am not persuaded that more is warranted. I am 
also satisfied that it was reasonable for RBS to offset this sum against the overpayment it 
had already made to Mr and Mrs S.
Both parties confirmed having received the provisional decision. RBS confirmed that it had 
nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs S said that they were very disappointed with my conclusions and disagreed with 
them. They reiterated their earlier comment on the history of the mortgage with RBS and 
confirmed that their understanding of the mortgage type was to provide flexible borrowing. 
They repeated their explanation of what their plans for the mortgage repayment were and 
what had happened after RBS contacted them in 2019.  Mr and Mrs S went on to say that 
they didnt think £1,000 was a significant amount of compensation, when compared to the financial loss they believe they have suffered. They asked that I reconsider the complaint 
and not allow a large financial institution to get away with what they believe was an unlawful 
act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party added anything new to the evidence I considered before my provisional 
decision, and as such, I havent changed my conclusions following my review. I would, 
however, confirm to Mr and Mrs S that the compensation payment is not to compensate for 
financial loss. It is a sum for the non-financial losses they suffered; for the upset RBS 
caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman