DRN-3102154
The complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) caused delays in
transferring his personal pension to a small self administered scheme (SSAS) during which
time his funds suffered a substantial fall in value.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Ds complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 21 September 
2021. In it I set out what had happened and what Id provisionally decided. Ive recapped 
what I said here.  
Mr D had pension arrangements with three providers, including LV. He wanted to transfer all
three funds to a new SSAS which had been set up in September 2019. The transfers from
the two other providers were completed before the transfer from LV. Mr D complained to one
of the other providers. It upheld his complaint and paid compensation to him, although I dont
have the details. Mr D also complained to LV that it had taken too long to transfer his fund.
LV investigated Mr Ds complaint. In its final response dated 12 June 2020 LV said thered
been some unnecessary delays on its part. Two instances in particular were identified. LV
had carried out some calculations to see if those delays had caused Mr D financial
detriment. LV said Mr D had benefited in both cases.
Mr D didnt agree. He estimated hed lost £50,000. LV looked at his complaint again and
increased its offer for distress and inconvenience to £200. Mr D remained unhappy and
referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But he didnt think LV needed to do
anything more. In summary he said that the process for LV didnt start until its own discharge
forms were received, on 12 December 2019. LV had then asked for more information on 24
December 2019 which had been received in early January 2020. There hadnt been any
delay up to that point. LV had sent Mr D a questionnaire on 12 February 2020 which Mr D
completed on 8 March 2020. It had been passed to LVs technical team on 12 March 2020.
LV had accepted thered then been some delays but, because the value of Mr Ds
investments had increased during that period, he hadnt suffered any loss.
The investigator said, to avoid substantial falls in value, the transfer wouldve needed to
have taken place before, say, 20 February 2020. Mr D couldve switched to cash in late 2019
but LV wasnt advising Mr D and so the investigator couldnt say that LV shouldve
recommended that Mr D did that.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he was significantly out of pocket from LVs constant blockading
of his requests to release his funds. His SSAS administrator agreed Mr D had missed out. It
said hed been intending to invest in a property via a SSAS loan back to his limited company.
Due to market movements during the transfer period, his options for investment became
limited because of the drop in his fund value.
The SSAS administrator said that some of LVs requests for information couldve been made
earlier. For example, LV requested information from the SSAS provider on 18 December
2019. That couldve been requested when LV sent its transfer discharge forms to the SSAS
administrator (on 8 November 2019).
The SSAS administrator had chased LV by telephone on 15 January 2020. LV had said the
matter was with its technical team for due diligence. LV confirmed in a further telephone call
on 28 January 2020 that was still the position. It wasnt until 12 February 2020 that Mr D was
sent a questionnaire. LV couldve sent the questionnaire with its transfer discharge forms or
with the request on 18 December 2019 for further information.
LV had confirmed that the matter had been passed from the technical team to the claims
team And, on 9 April 2020, LV said the transfer was being processed and should be
completed in seven to ten days. But it wasnt until 29 April 2020 that the SSAS administrator
received payments totalling £105,762.05.
LV had its own transfer discharge forms by the middle of December 2019 and the further
information requested from the SSAS administrator by the beginning of January 2020. There
was over six weeks to complete the transfer by 20 February 2020, assuming the information
from Mr D had been requested earlier.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has pointed out that another provider upheld his complaint  even though that
providers transfer was completed before the transfer from LV. I can understand why Mr D
considers that suggests LV must have taken too long. But I dont think that necessarily
follows. Different providers will have different requirements and the receiving schemes
and/or the members dealings with each provider wont be identical. I dont agree we must
see evidence from the other provider in order to fairly determine Mr Ds complaint against
LV, a different entity undertaking an entirely separate transfer. Ive focused instead on what
LV did (or didnt do).
Wed expect LV to meet its own service standards, which should be in line with the industry
generally. And, as has been mentioned, regulations say a transfer should be completed
within six months. But each case will be different. And, as Mr D accepts, providers may need
to carry out extra due diligence to protect customers from scams or pensions liberation
schemes. I dont think LV should be penalised if its process was more thorough than others.
In saying that I dont infer that the due diligence the other providers undertook was
inadequate. Just that different providers due diligence requirements wont be identical.
In considering Mr Ds complaint Ive had regard to the updated Code of Practice published
by the Pension Scams Industry Group. If Mr D wants, we can forward a copy to him. Its
lengthy but transfers to SSASs are specifically mentioned and some of the indicators which
might give rise to concern were present in Mr Ds case. For example, both his company and
the SSAS were recently set up. The Code indicates that a stage by stage process should be
adopted. That supports the approach Ive taken - looking at each step separately and if the
time taken to complete it was reasonable.
Mr D might say that LV couldve completed the transfer quicker. But I dont think thats the
right test. What LV did (or didnt do) shouldnt be judged on the basis of whether the transfer
couldve been completed any earlier.LV has accepted that, towards the end of the process, there were some avoidable delays on
its part. So Ive concentrated on what happened earlier on and before Mr Ds completed
members questionnaire was received by LV on 11 March 2020.
There was a delay at the outset. Mr Ds transfer request was sent to LV on 24 October 2019.
But LV required its own transfer discharge forms to be completed. Those were sent out on 8
November 2019 and received by the SSAS administrator on 14 November 2019. LVs forms
couldve been sent out quicker. But I note that the SSAS administrator didnt return the
completed forms by post to LV until 12 December 2019. That doesnt suggest the transfer
was particularly urgent, at that stage at least.
LV did warn, in its letter of 8 November 2019, that Mr Ds current transfer value of
£146,940.56 wasnt guaranteed and could go up or down. I agree with the investigator that, if 
Mr D had wanted to secure that value, he couldve switched into cash. But he then wouldnt 
have benefited if the markets had gone up. In any event, as LV wasnt advising him, LV 
didnt need to suggest that he might want to protect his fund value by switching to cash.
LV received the forms back from the SSAS administrator 17 December 2019. LV sent a
request for further information the following day. I dont agree that request couldve been
sent earlier. I dont think it would be fair to say LV shouldve assumed any of that information
would be needed from the earlier request it had received. LV wanted its own forms to be
completed. I dont think, until LV received a request in that format, it wouldve considered the
transfer request in any detail or known what additional information it might need to take the
request further. And, even if LV shouldve had regard to the information provided earlier (with
the SSAS administrators letter of 24 October 2019) not everything that LV needed had been
supplied. So further information wouldve been requested in any event.
LV got the further information on 6 January 2020 and referred it promptly  the next day - to
its technical team. But I thought there might have been some avoidable delays thereafter.
The members questionnaire wasnt sent to Mr D until 12 February 2020. The SSAS
administrator had chased LV in the interim so LV knew the matter was urgent.
The SSAS administrator had suggested that the member questionnaire couldve been sent
with the earlier information request. But LVs letter, sent to Mr D and enclosing the
questionnaire, specifically asked him not to forward the questions to the receiving scheme.
The further enquiries made direct to Mr D were separate and distinct from the information
requested from the receiving scheme  the SSAS administrator. I dont think the two sets of
enquiries shouldve been combined. And I dont think it was wrong for LV to proceed on a
stage by stage basis  triaging the transfer application and then making initial enquiries of
the SSAS administrator and considering that information before seeking further details from
Mr D.
But I was concerned that the member questionnaire shouldve been sent to Mr D earlier. I
noted thered been some delay as it seemed the email address LV had been given for Mr D
was no longer in use. So, in the end, the questionnaire was sent by post. I didnt think
posting it was unreasonable, given that the email address supplied didnt work, but I thought
the questionnaire couldve been sent out to Mr D earlier.
We put that to LV. It took another look at the time it had taken to deal with Mr Ds request.
Essentially LV accepted that the members questionnaire shouldve been sent to Mr D earlier
 on 27 January 2020. I think thats reasonable.
Allowing for the time it actually took Mr D to return the questionnaire (about a month), LV
wouldve received it back on 27 February 2020. That would have meant confirmation that thetransfer could proceed couldve been given on 2 March 2020 and the transfer undertaken
the following day.
LV provided a comparison of the values actually realised on 1 April 2020 with those as at 3 
March 2020. Heres the table LV provided:
On that basis, Mr D would have been £25,102.94 better off but for avoidable delays on LVs
part in dealing with the transfer request. Against that background I think Mr Ds complaint
should be upheld.
Ive set out below how LV should redress Mr D. In addition to making up the shortfall in the
transfer value, Ive said that LV should also pay a return on that sum to compensate Mr D for
missed growth on those funds. Ive suggested an index as Im not sure where Mr D wouldve
invested, in what proportions and if hed have made any fund switches. And using an index
cuts down on the extra information that needs to be obtained from other parties.
Mr D has suggested compensation of £50,000 is due. I think that was based on an initial
transfer value he was given in October 2019. But, and as LV has said, it wasnt guaranteed
and before going ahead with the transfer LVs requirements needed to be met.
I also note whats been said about Mr Ds plans to buy a property. Im not sure if he went
ahead with that. But I think it would be very difficult to establish that any changes to his plans
were all down to LVs delay in processing the transfer. I say that because, in total, three
transfers were involved, and one of the other transfers was delayed too. And a property
purchase may fall through or be delayed for multiple reasons. Further, even if the transfer
had been completed in early March, market uncertainties may have meant Mr D decided
against a property purchase.
LV offered £200 as compensation for distress and inconvenience its avoidable delays
caused Mr D (although at that stage LVs position was that Mr D hadnt suffered any financial
loss and had in fact gained). I think LV should pay that sum to Mr D. I note what Mr D has
said about the stress hes suffered and the impact on his personal life. But I think £200,
coupled with making up the financial loss hes sustained, is appropriate. I dont think LV can
fairly be held responsible for the wider effects Mr D has referred to.
Responses to my provisional decision
LV accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr D said he didnt have any further comments and that hed be happy to be compensated in 
line with my provisional decision. But he added that hed like the decision to take into 
account that he lost fees and opportunities to set up the SSAS and buy properties - LVs 
delays meant that he was left short of funds. He also said hed now set up another pension 
arrangement so that the SSAS could be closed and the fund transferred to the new provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new information or arguments my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Mr D has said that LVs delay meant he lost the chance to buy a property. But, as I said in 
my provisional decision, I think it would be very difficult to be certain that, but for LVs delay, 
Mr D would have bought a property. I maintain that any loss Mr D may have suffered as a 
result of being unable to fulfil his plans to purchase a property through his SSAS is too 
uncertain or remote. 
I further note what Mr D has said about having closed his SSAS and transferred the fund to 
a new pension provider. But I dont see that LV should be responsible for any fees or other 
costs Mr D may have incurred if hes since decided that the SSAS no longer meets his 
requirements and so hes switched to a new arrangement with a different provider. I think the 
redress Im awarding adequately compensates Mr D for the losses hes suffered as a result 
of LVs delay in dealing with the transfer to Mr Ds new SSAS. I dont see that LV can fairly 
be held responsible for any wider losses. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision (and which forms part of this decision) Im 
upholding Mr Ds complaint. LV must redress Mr D as I set out in my provisional decision 
and which Ive repeated here.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding compensation is to put Mr D back in the position hes likely to have been 
in, but for LVs delay. LV has calculated that Mr Ds transfer value wouldve been £25,102.94 
more. Mr D will also have lost out on growth on that sum since 3 March 2020. I think the 
fairest and easiest way to redress Mr D for that is by reference to a benchmark or index. 
From the fund selection above it seems Mr D is a balanced investor and so the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index would be appropriate. LV should therefore use 
that Index to calculate a return from 3 March 2020 to the date of payment.
The compensation amount should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum.
But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. 
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that
would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds
actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if hes
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal
the current basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum,
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
LV should also pay Mr D £200 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited must redress Mr D as 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman