DRN-2075539
The complaint
Mrs T has complained HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as HSBC UK Bank, won't refund her for 
credit card transactions she didn't make or authorise.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs T found she couldn't use her credit card. She discovered nearly 
£6,665 had been spent overseas although she believed her card had remained in her 
possession throughout. She complained to HSBC. She'd not been overseas so knew it 
couldn't have been her. They believed as her genuine card had been used with the PIN 
Mrs T had authorised these transactions.  
She disputed this and brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator looked at HSBC's evidence. This showed there'd been nine transactions 
carried out from the evening of 8 February and throughout the following day at a US retailer. 
He believed these had been carried out with the genuine card. Mrs T was unable to show 
she was at hospital as she said at this time. Despite the transactions looking odd, he felt the 
chances of an unknown third party carrying these out were limited. Overall he believed Mrs T 
must have made or authorised these transactions.
Mrs T disagreed with this outcome. Whilst her complaint was waiting to be allocated to an 
ombudsman, Mrs T tried to see whether she could get further information from the retailer 
involved. Unfortunately she wasn't able to discover anything.
Her case was passed to me for a decision. I completed a provisional decision on 8 August 
2020. Overall I didnt feel there was sufficient evidence on balance to show Mrs T had 
authorised these transactions. I told HSBC Id be expecting them to refund her for the 
transactions if shed paid her credit card bill.
Mrs T accepted this outcome. HSBC pointed out Mrs T hadnt been able to show shed been 
in hospital. They also didnt believe it was likely an unknown fraudster would take her card 
and use it only in one retailer when they could have spent more.
I now have all the information I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen nothing which has made me change the outcome I reached when 
I completed my provisional decision. This decision takes into account the points HSBC 
raised and follows a similar course to my provisional decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But that is not the end of the story:
 The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not 
necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). 
 Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something 
also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs T, or whether it should have done more than it did. So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what HSBC and Mrs T have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events and Mrs Ts testimony were covered in our investigators 
view of 4 December 2019. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of 
course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mrs T and 
HSBC Ive read the file thoroughly. Ive also raised some additional issues with both parties 
before coming to this conclusion.
The following summarises what Ive considered:
 Mrs T has been a customer of HSBC for more than 12 years. There seems to be no 
history of fraud or fraud claims.
 Her use of her credit card seems to be limited. In fact Mrs T had repaid the 
outstanding balance on her credit card in November 2018.
 Mrs T has provided a copy of her passport to our service. As she has stated 
throughout, she was not abroad at the time of the transactions.
 Mrs T hasnt been completely clear about what she was doing around this time. She 
initially thought she may have been attending hospital for treatment. But more 
recently she thought she may just have been attending the doctor for a post-surgery 
check-up.
 As HSBC has noted shes not been able to show she was in hospital and Ive taken 
this into account. However I dont think this is the crucial aspect of the evidence.
 HSBC also provided copies of Mrs Ts current account statements. These show 
nothing out of the ordinary at the time of the credit card disputed payments. They 
certainly dont suggest she was out of the country.
 Im satisfied all the evidence confirms Mrs T didnt make these transactions. However 
that alone doesnt mean she didnt authorise them or gave her card to someone else.
 However Mrs Ts evidence about not using her credit card and not allowing anyone 
else to use it has been consistent throughout.
 Mrs T has said her card always remained in her possession and shed noticed it 
around this time. I did wonder whether she was sure about this. It can often be the 
case that we put cards we dont use frequently in our wallets or purses and dont 
actually notice them when were not using them. Mrs T reassured me this wasnt the 
case. However I do think there may have been an opportunity for her card to be 
taken and replaced. As she wasnt using it that often, she may not have noticed it not 
being there.
 HSBC seemed to have identified the unusual pattern of transactions as they stopped 
any transactions after the ninth transaction. This seems to have been quite late as 
the usage all looks unusual to me. Nine transactions in the same retailer with the first 
two transactions being over £2,400 and £3,060. Id have expected an alarm to have 
rung quite quickly because of the nature of these transactions  particularly as no 
PIN was used (see below).
 HSBC question why an unknown third party would only spend in one establishment 
but that may well be related to the fact they blocked further transactions.
 A key factor in this case though is whether HSBCs evidence shows the genuine card 
was used for the disputed transactions. Im not sure this evidence is as convincing as 
HSBC believes.
 For a great deal of the time weve been considering this complaint, HSBC has been 
adamant the PIN was used to verify the transactions. Once I became involved I 
questioned this again as I was unconvinced this was the case. HSBC then confirmed 
no PIN had been used.
 Two different pieces of evidence have been provided: the nine individual and 
separate transaction records showing the original currency in use was GBP but 
nothing to show the genuine card was used; and the spreadsheet used by a number of banks to verify the genuine card was used at point of sale (demonstrated by the 
use of the code 5). 
 Theres no dispute the transactions took place at a US retailer. The timings suggest 
these took place in the evening of 8 February and during the day of 9 February 2019. 
Theres no suggestion these transactions took place in US dollars which I find 
surprising. There is a possibility that whoever made them chose to convert the 
currency to sterling at source although I note HSBC dispute this.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mrs T in this case) authorised 
these transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of 
Mrs Ts card, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mrs Ts card without her consent. Ive thought about the different scenarios that could 
have happened here. That includes whether the evidence from HSBC is not correct when 
stating the genuine card was used in the US retailer.
HSBC has been adamant that their evidence is correct. I accept this format of evidence is 
used to verify how transactions are made in a large number of different cases. There are two 
other factors here that Ive considered though. These transactions took place overseas. And 
HSBCs own reading of this evidence has been incorrect from the start.
Overall and on balance I dont believe Mrs T made or authorised the transactions so HSBC 
will need to sort things out.
Putting things right
Some time has passed since these transactions took place and Im not sure whether HSBC 
suspended these transactions or whether interest and charges have been accruing on these. 
Alternatively Mrs T may have paid these off in an attempt to minimise damage to her credit 
record. If not, HSBC will need to write off £6664.50. My recommendations to resolve this 
complaint cover all of these scenarios. HSBC didnt confirm the situation in their response to 
the provisional decision.
I also believe its fair HSBC pay Mrs T compensation. The issues have been going on some 
time and its clear HSBC misled her when confirming her genuine card and PIN were used to 
make the transactions. Nearly £6,665 is a lot of money to be told you owe when this isnt the 
case.  And Im sure Mrs T has felt her reputation has been questioned. Ive decided its fair 
HSBC pay her £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc, trading as 
HSBC UK Bank, to:
 Write off £6,664.50 for the transactions on 8 and 9 February 2019 Mrs T didnt make 
or authorise;
 If Mrs T has repaid this debt, refund her any payments relating to the nine disputed 
transactions;
 Remove any fees or charges relating to those transactions that have been added to 
Mrs Ts account;
 Remove any negative credit data relating to those credit card transactions; or
 If Mrs T has paid the debt in full, add 8% simple interest to £6,664.50 from the date 
the account was paid until the date of settlement; and Pay Mrs T £250 in compensation for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman