DRN-3546107
The complaint
Mr R complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Starline) recorded an arrangement to 
pay on his credit file, after he missed a payment. 
What happened
Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with Starline to acquire a used car in 
September 2017.
In July 2020 Mr R contacted Starline to explain hed been made redundant due to Covid-19 
and asked for a payment holiday. Startline asked Mr R to complete a digital form to assess 
his financial situation. Mr R wasnt able to use the form whilst he was on the phone, he said 
he did submit it afterwards but Startline didnt get back in touch with him. 
Startline said the form wasnt received, and so no payment holiday was agreed. 
Mr B didnt make the payment for July 2020 on the agreement, and Startline contacted him 
in August 2020 to discuss this. Mr R resumed his normal payments in August 2020 and 
complained to Starline about the record of missed payment on his credit file. 
Mr R returned to work in September 2020 and an arrangement to pay was made, which ran 
until January 2021. This included Mr R making additional payments on top of his normal 
monthly payment to clear the arrears balance. 
Startline sent Mr R their final response to his complaint in September 2020. They said as the 
digital form wasnt received, no payment holiday was agreed, so the information about the 
missed payment would remain on his credit file. 
Mr R contacted Starline in January 2021 about the arrangement to pay being recorded on 
his credit file. Starline said they had a duty to report accurate information to credit reference 
agencies, so they couldnt amend his credit file. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaint to us for investigation. He said Startline didnt 
tell him that the arrangement to pay would be recorded on his credit file, and this had a 
negative impact on him trying to obtain a mortgage. He asked for his credit file to be 
amended. 
Our investigator gave his view that having regard to the relevant regulator guidance at the 
time, Startline should have given Mr R a payment holiday in July 2020 without the need to 
complete an online form. If this had happened, no arrangement to pay wouldve been 
needed, and there wouldnt have been an effect on Mr Rs credit file, so the adverse 
information should be removed. 
Startline didnt agree. They said they had a legitimate concern that a payment holiday 
wouldnt have been in Mr Rs best interest, and the guidance at the time allowed them to 
make reasonable enquiries. As Mr R didnt complete the form, no payment holiday was 
granted. An arrangement to pay was entered, and so it would be disingenuous to remove 
this information from Mr Rs credit file. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022 recommending that it was upheld. I 
made the following provisional findings: 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr R asked for a payment holiday in July 2020 because hed lost his job as a result of 
Coronavirus (Covid-19).
In April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released specific guidance titled Motor 
finance arrangements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. The guidance said: 
This guidance sets out our expectation that firms provide, for a temporary period only, 
exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. It is intended to provide help to those who might be 
having temporary difficulty in making their finance or leasing payments due to a loss of or 
reduction in their income (or income of other members of their household) or to those who 
expect to experience such difficulties.
Mr R hadnt missed a payment under the agreement previously and was asking for a 
payment holiday as a result of circumstances arising out of Covid-19. So, Im satisfied he 
wouldve been eligible for a payment holiday under the guidance. 
Our investigator said that Startline shouldve given Mr R a payment holiday when he asked 
for it in July 2020. 
Startline said they asked Mr R to complete an online form to assess his suitability for a 
payment holiday. They said the guidance allowed them to make this assessment. And, as Mr 
R didnt return the form, no payment holiday was agreed. 
Mr R tried to complete the form whilst on the phone with Startline but had trouble with his 
account. Startline sent him a link and agreed to call him the next day, but this didnt happen. 
Startline have apologised to Mr R for not calling him. 
Mr R contacted Starline at the beginning of August 2020 to explain hed completed the form 
but hadnt received a call back. 
I think it was always Mr Rs intention to complete the form that Starline asked him to fill in, 
but there appear to have been some technical issues in him doing so, and Starline didnt call 
him when they said they would. 
Had the form worked correctly or had Startline called Mr R and taken additional information 
over the phone, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, Mr R wouldve been given 
a payment holiday for at least one month. 
Mr R was able to make his usual monthly payment in August 2020 and set up an 
arrangement to repay the arrears balance from September 2020 until January 2021. The FCA issued updated guidance in July 2020 titled: Motor finance agreements and 
coronavirus: updated temporary guidance for firms This guidance deals with reporting 
arrangements to pay to credit reference agencies. It says: 
Where at the end of a payment deferral period a mechanism to repay accrued amounts is 
agreed we would not expect this to result in any negative reporting.
Had Mr R been granted the payment holiday in July 2020 as I think he shouldve been, the 
arrangement to pay wouldnt have been recorded on his credit file. 
Mr R says the information on his credit file has prevented him from obtaining a mortgage. 
Lenders consider a number of factors when making a decision to lend, and I havent seen 
any evidence that Mr R has been declined credit solely or directly as a result of the 
information reported by Startline. 
Our investigator recommended that Startline pay Mr R £150 compensation. Mr R has been 
put to distress and inconvenience in having the information recorded on his credit file, and in 
trying to have it removed. Overall, Im satisfied that £150 compensation fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience cased to Mr R. 
Whilst I accept that Starline may have been able to make assessments about the suitability 
of a payment holiday for their consumers, I dont think Mr R should be disadvantaged by a 
problem with the technology. For the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr R always intended to 
complete the form, and had this process worked as it should have, he wouldve been 
granted a payment holiday and the arrangement to pay wouldnt have been recorded on his 
credit file. 
So, Startline should remove the adverse information in respect of the arrangement to pay 
from Mr Rs credit file. 
Neither Mr R nor Starline responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, for 
the same reasoning that I set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
Remove any adverse information in respect of the arrangement to pay from Mr Rs 
credit file. 
Pay Mr R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman