DRN-2619423
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs B are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr W has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
  
What happened
In 2016, Mr W bought a house and took out a home insurance policy with Admiral. He 
employed a builder to convert the basement in early 2017. The work included excavating 
below ground level, which began to cause problems with the stability of the house. Mr W 
asked the builder to stop work. He made a claim to Admiral for the damage to his house.
Admiral appointed a loss adjuster who inspected the damage and declined the claim. Mr W 
complained but Admiral maintained the claim should be declined. It said the policy didnt 
cover poor design or workmanship and said thats what had caused the problem. After that, 
Mr W began taking steps to deal with the problem himself, including carrying out ground 
investigations and underpinning.
In 2019 Mr W took advice from an engineer and got back in touch with Admiral. In summary 
he said the ground investigations had shown the soil was poor quality and the house was 
suffering from subsidence prior to the builder starting work on the conversion. He accepted 
Admiral wouldnt pay for any costs arising from the actions of the builder. He asked Admiral 
to pay for the cost of dealing with the subsidence problem that had occurred prior to the 
builders work  which Mr W thought should include underpinning.
Admirals loss adjuster carried out further investigations. It accepted some subsidence 
damage may have occurred between the start of the policy and before the conversion. But it 
wasnt persuaded it would have been enough to warrant underpinning.
Mr W took advice from another engineer. In summary they thought the house had been 
suffering from subsidence for many years prior to the conversion and the evidence showed 
subsidence damage had occurred between the start of the policy and the conversion work.
Our investigator considered the complaint but an agreement for how to resolve the complaint 
couldnt be reached. So its been passed to me to decide.
  
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number of points have been made by Mr W and Admiral. Ive read and taken into account 
all of them, but Ill only comment below on those which I think are important to the outcome 
of this complaint.
Mr W accepts the damage and costs that have arisen from the builders work wont be 
covered by Admiral under the home insurance policy. I understand he made a separate legal 
expenses claim to pursue the builder for those costs. So I wont consider this point further.
Mr Ws claim under his home insurance policy is for damage caused by subsidence prior to 
the conversion work carried out by the builder. He would like Admiral to accept this claim 
and deal with it by paying for the underpinning work and associated costs.
Admiral hasnt agreed to accept the claim based on the reports of its loss adjuster. I 
understand Admiral doesnt think there was significant subsidence damage prior to the 
conversion work.
The policy began in May 2016 and the damage associated with the conversion work 
happened in early 2017, around six to nine months later. Admirals policy covers the cost of 
putting right any subsidence damage caused in that window of time. That means the key 
points for me to consider are:
1. Does the evidence show there was subsidence damage in that window of time?
2. If so, what would be a fair way for Admiral to deal with that damage?
Mr W took advice from two structural engineers. The first noted structural movement had 
been caused by the conversion work. But they went on to say other damage indicated the 
property had suffered movement prior to that. They noted some, but not all, of the property 
had been underpinned in the 1980s and considered that part-underpinning of the property 
hadnt resolved the overall problem.
The second engineer said the house had been constructed on inherently weak soil and this 
had caused the ground movement problem. They thought movement had likely been active 
throughout the life of the building. It was built before 1900 and was around 120 years old at 
the time the Admiral policy began in 2016. The engineer identified severe distortions in the 
house. They said the majority had happened prior to 2016  but said there was clear 
evidence ground movement and damage had continued after that. They considered the only 
way to stabilise the property would be to underpin the house.
Admirals loss adjuster, also a structural engineer, concluded the composition of the ground 
meant the building may have been subject to subsidence movement over time. They thought 
there was little evidence of damage during the relevant time. But it accepted some damage 
may have taken place.
Overall, Im satisfied that all engineers broadly agree there was likely to have been some 
damage as a result of subsidence during the relevant period of time. Because of that, Im 
satisfied Admiral should accept the claim.
Theres also broad agreement amongst the engineers that the subsidence problem has been 
on-going for a significant period of time  perhaps for over 100 years  prior to the Admiral 
policy starting. Admiral is only responsible for dealing with the damage which happened after 
its policy started  a time frame of up to nine months. Although its clear damage continued 
during that time, taking into account the engineering evidence, its likely the majority of the 
damage happened prior to the policy starting.
In these circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask Admiral to pay for 
underpinning. I accept the engineers view that underpinning is needed in order to stabilise 
the house. But thats a remedy to a problem thats been on-going for many years or even decades prior to the Admiral policy starting. Its disproportionate to the amount of damage 
thats likely to have happened whilst Admiral insured the house.
Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Admiral to offer a contribution to the cost of putting 
right the problem, based on an estimate of how much additional damage is likely to have 
occurred since the policy started.
The loss adjusters notes suggest settling the claim, after deduction of the policy excess, for 
£2,000. I havent seen any other estimates or information to lead me to conclude this is an 
unfair figure. So Im persuaded this is the amount Admiral should pay to settle the claim. It 
should also add interest to the cash settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral didnt respond.
Mr W responded to provide further information and comments, including a number of 
detailed e-mails. Ive read it all and will summarise the main points as follows:
The loss adjuster wasnt appointed until several years after he made the claim and 
this has gone against him;
The loss adjuster wasnt independent and intended to decline the claim from the 
outset;
Admiral offered the policy with full knowledge of the previous underpinning work;
Mr W wasnt aware of any on-going subsidence problem at the time he bought the 
house and took out the insurance policy;
There is a ground water issue at the property, which may have developed in the 
1970s and 1980s and been the root cause of the subsidence problem;
£2,000 is absurdly low and doesnt come close to covering the costs hes incurred. It 
amounts to around 2%;
All the advice hes received from structural engineers agreed that underpinning was 
the only viable way of putting the problem right;
He doesnt understand why underpinning would be excluded under the policy;
Mr W accepts that some of his costs arent covered, such as those incurred due to 
the actions of the builder or as a result of upgrading his house. He would like Admiral 
to pay to put him back in the position he was in when he bought the property;
Mr W also provided a report from a quantity surveyor to set out an independent 
estimate of the costs already incurred  and those that will be incurred  by Mr W in 
putting right the subsidence problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W has made a number of points, Ill divide my findings into sub-sections.
Appointment of loss adjuster
When Mr W made his claim in 2017 it was for the damage caused by the builder when 
excavating below ground level as part of the basement conversion. A loss adjuster visited to 
inspect the damage. They declined the claim on the basis the damage was caused by the 
actions of the builder.Mr W referred a previous complaint to our service about the outcome of the initial claim. An 
investigator said there wasnt, at that time, enough information to suggest subsidence had 
occurred prior to the conversion work.
After that Mr W took advice from an engineer and returned to Admiral to claim for the 
subsidence problem prior to the conversion work. Admiral then appointed a different loss 
adjuster to consider the subsidence claim in more detail. It means the new loss adjuster saw 
the damage around two years after the problem happened. But I dont think Admiral acted 
unreasonably. Our investigator found it considered the initial claim fairly. And when it was 
presented with new information in 2019, it took reasonable steps to consider the claim again.
Mr W has said the second loss adjuster told him they intended to decline the claim before 
they had inspected the house. Mr W felt this was unfair and not independent. He also 
thought the loss adjusters report contained inaccuracies. I wont go through all the points 
hes made. Ill focus on what has an impact the outcome of this complaint.
I dont know what discussion was had between Mr W and the loss adjuster. But ultimately, I 
havent been persuaded it was fair for Admiral (or the loss adjuster) to decline the claim. And 
when reaching my decision, I havent relied on the details within the loss adjusters report 
that Mr W has questioned. So any inaccuracies havent had a bearing on the outcome.
Previous subsidence and underpinning
Mr W says he told Admiral about the previous part-underpinning of his house when he took 
out the policy. So he understood hed be covered in the event of a recurrence of subsidence.
If the damage had returned to the part-underpinned area of the house and Admiral had 
declined the claim because of the previous subsidence problem  despite knowing about it 
when it offered a policy  Id have to consider whether Admiral was treating Mr W fairly.
But I dont think thats what happened. The damage isnt a recurrence, but a claim focused 
on a different area of the house to that which was damaged and underpinned before. 
Admiral didnt decline the claim for anything to do with the part-underpinning. And in my 
provisional decision I said Admiral should accept the claim. So Mr Ws claim is covered, and 
the dispute now is about the appropriate way to settle it. But thats not been impacted by the 
part-underpinning.
Mr W says he wasnt aware of any on-going subsidence problem when he bought the house 
and took out the insurance policy. A valuation survey was carried out before Mr W bought 
the house. I understand he didnt see the result of that survey until after hed bought the 
house, but the report does say no evidence of on-going movement was seen. So, I can 
appreciate there may not have been any signs of a problem to Mr W either. I note he didnt 
claim for the subsidence problem as a result of above ground cracking or movement  
subsidence was only discovered after the problems caused by the conversion work gave him 
reason to investigate the ground conditions. So it appears there was little, if any, indication of 
an on-going problem to Mr W around the time he bought the house and took out the policy.
However, Im not persuaded that means it falls to Admiral to take responsibility for the entire 
subsidence problem. When buying a house theres always a risk of discovering problems 
with it later, especially in a house thats suffered from subsidence before. Admirals policy is 
home insurance and, in line with most insurers, only covers damage caused whilst the policy 
is in force. It doesnt cover latent defects or other damage which happened prior to the policy 
starting.
Ground water problemMr W has researched the history of his property and the local area and found evidence to 
suggest a rise in the water table in 1970s and 80s. Hes questioned whether this may have 
been the root cause of the subsidence problem which led to the part-underpinning at his 
house in the late 80s. Mr W considers the subsoil at his property is particularly susceptible to 
the effects of moisture, which supports this possibility. He suggests if a water table change 
caused subsidence in the 80s, then perhaps movement at the property began in the 80s and 
wasnt happening throughout the life of the property. That would mean movement has been 
ongoing for around 30-40 years rather than 100 or more. He also says the fact the 
underpinning didnt extend to the entire footprint of the house suggests there wasnt a 
significant problem at the time and therefore much of the movement has happened since.
Its clear Mr W has gone to a great deal of effort to research the history of the local water 
table and its potential impact on his house. A structural engineer described his view as 
plausible and suggested a specialist with geotechnical experience would be required in 
order to explore it further. So, as it stands, Mr Ws view hasnt been ruled out and its a 
possibility. But neither has an expert considered it likely. Im not persuaded theres enough 
evidence to show that what Mr W has suggested is more likely than not.
But even if I were to accept what Mr W is saying  effectively that damage began perhaps 30 
years ago  I dont think that would change my mind about the outcome of this complaint. Ill 
explain more about that below.
How should the claim be settled?
Admiral hasnt said underpinning is excluded. And nor have I. In my provisional decision I 
said I accepted the engineers view that underpinning is needed in order to stabilise the 
house. But whats required to put the subsidence problem right  and what Admiral is liable 
for under the policy  are two different things.
The policy covers the cost of repairing the damage caused by subsidence during the period 
of insurance. In this case thats a six- to nine-month window of time between the policy 
starting and the conversion work causing a separate problem. Admiral isnt responsible for 
the cost of repairing any damage caused prior to the policy starting  or as a result of the 
conversion work.
In my provisional decision, I considered there was likely to have been some damage as a 
result of subsidence during the relevant window of time. Neither party has disputed that, so I 
maintain that view.
That means Admiral must accept the claim and pay the cost of putting right the damage 
which happened during the relevant window of time. The dispute now is about how much 
damage was caused during that time  and how much it will cost to put right.
In my provisional decision, I said the evidence showed its likely the majority of the 
subsidence damage happened prior to the policy starting. The engineering evidence 
suggested the subsidence problem could have been on-going for over 100 years. 
Comparing that to the period of time Admiral is responsible for  up to nine months  I 
thought it was fair for Admiral to make a contribution to the overall cost of putting the 
subsidence problem right. I considered it was disproportionate to make Admiral pay to repair 
a problem that had been on-going for perhaps 100 years when it was only responsible for 
damage that happened during the nine months it insured the property.
Admiral effectively valued the damage caused during the relevant time at £3,300 when it 
suggested a £2,000 cash offer. Thats because the policy has an excess of £1,300 for subsidence claims - £1,000 as standard and an extra £300 voluntary excess  which was 
deducted prior to offering £2,000.
Mr W has provided evidence from a quantity surveyor that says hes spent (or will spend) 
around £100,000 putting right the subsidence problem. The report is thorough, detailed, and 
the cost estimates have clearly been carefully considered and based on the relevant 
engineering advice and information, so Im persuaded by what the report says.
On the understanding the problem has been on-going for around 100 years, valuing the 
damage that happened during nine months at £3,300 isnt unreasonable or disproportionate. 
As mentioned above, Mr W has argued the subsidence problem may have begun around 30 
years ago. If I were to accept that was the case, I dont think that would make Admirals 
valuation of £3,300 unreasonable or disproportionate. It would still equate to around a years 
worth of the overall cost.
This assumes damage was generally consistent over the years. Im satisfied thats a fair 
assumption to make. Theres likely to have been variations to some degree over time. But I 
havent seen any expert opinion to suggest the damage which occurred during the time 
Admiral insured the property was likely to have been more significant than at other times.
I know Mr W feels strongly that Admiral should cover the cost of underpinning. As I said 
above, I accept the opinion of the engineers that underpinning is needed to stabilise the 
house. But the evidence indicates the need for underpinning has come about due to a 
problem thats been on-going for in order of 30-100 years. I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me the need for underpinning didnt exist prior to Mr W owning the property and 
only became necessary afterward.
In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be reasonable to make Admiral pay for 
underpinning. I remain satisfied a reasonable way to settle the claim is for Admiral to 
contribute to the cost of putting things right, based on the amount of damage thats likely to 
have occurred whilst Admiral insured the house. Ive explained above why Im satisfied 
Admiral will do that if it pays £2,000 after deduction of the excesses.
Mr W has mentioned additional costs he will face as the repairs progress, which arent 
included in the surveyors report. I understand hell need to move into alternative 
accommodate and may also need to pay for storage. My view on this is the same as with the 
underpinning  these costs are a result of a problem thats been on-going for decades, not 
as a result of the damage caused whilst Admiral insured the house. For that reason, Im not 
satisfied it would be fair to make Admiral pay for them.
I recognise this claim has been difficult for Mr W for a number of reasons. Hes had to live 
with significant damage at his home for a prolonged period of time. And hes put in a 
substantial amount of time and effort in dealing with the damage himself, including carrying 
out work, tests and engaging various experts. Hes effectively become a project manager for 
a large and complex repair job. Its also been a challenge for him to provide evidence, given 
the unusual circumstances of how the claim arose and the passage of time since then. I 
accept its caused him a significant amount of distress, inconvenience, and financial cost.
I bear in mind this is a result of the long-term subsidence issue, the conversion works, and 
the time its taken to consider these problems  rather than the way Admiral handled the 
claim.
Im satisfied it was unfair for Admiral to decline the claim and, as a result, it should have 
made a settlement offer to Mr W earlier. But given that offer will only amount to a small proportion of the overall cost Mr W faces, I dont think an earlier offer would have made a 
significant difference to him. My award includes the addition of interest from the date the 
claim was made. That will compensate Mr W for being without the money for longer than he 
should have been. Im satisfied thats a fair remedy to Admiral declining the claim.
    
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Pay £2,000 to settle the claim;
pay simple interest* at 8% a year, from the date the claim was made until the date 
the claim is settled.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W 
and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman