DRN-4024583
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In June 2021, Mr A made an application for a BOI current account. Mr As account was 
opened but shortly afterwards BOI became concerned about what it considered to be 
inconsistencies in the information Mr A had provided during his application. In particular, it 
was concerned that Mr A hadnt disclosed all of his previous addresses. As a result of its 
concerns, it closed Mr As account and also recorded a fraud prevention marker against him. 
Mr A complained after learning that BOI had recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. BOI looked at Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. He didnt think that BOI had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that BOI has filed is intended to record that there was application fraud  
relating to Mr A using his real name but providing other false information in an application for 
a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there 
are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think BOI had enough 
evidence to show that Mr A did provide materially false information. Secondly, BOI also 
needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest when doing so 
and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or misunderstanding. Its also 
important to note BOI had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it to have 
acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I do firstly want to start by saying that its disappointing to see 
that BOI failed to obtain Mr As version of events before recording the marker. I accept it 
believed the information it obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that Mr A had 
provided false information. But, on its own, this is only really enough to trigger suspicion or 
concern. And I have to question how BOI could possibly have assessed Mr As knowledge 
and intention before it recorded the fraud marker against him when it looks like it didnt 
speak to him before doing so.
That said, even though it would have been preferrable for BOI to have contacted Mr A before 
recording the fraud marker. I dont think that doing so would have made too much of a 
difference here. I say this because I think there is enough here to suggest that Mr A 
knowingly and dishonestly provided BOI with false information. 
BOI says that Mr A failed to disclose his previous address history. It was concerned by the 
fact that Mr A had said that hed lived at his current address for three years and two months. 
But this wasnt supported by other information showing that hed lived at, was registered on 
the electoral roll at and had made credit applications using one other address during this 
period. 
Furthermore, and perhaps most importantly, the address which ended up being left off       
Mr As application had more than one fraud marker recorded against him. And as this 
information about previous addresses is likely to have impacted BOIs decision on whether 
to provide Mr A with an account, Im satisfied that it was a material falsehood.
Its possible that its merely a coincidence that the address Mr A didnt disclose was one 
where hed previously received a fraud marker. But given the clarity of the question asked 
and the fact that Mr A would have known hed made a number of applications for credit at 
this other address, I think it is more likely than not that this discrepancy was knowing and 
deliberate, rather than an innocent mistake. So Im satisfied that this address discrepancy 
meant that BOI had sufficient evidence to record a fraud marker against Mr A. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that BOI did have sufficient evidence 
to record an application fraud marker against Mr A. As this is the case, I dont think that BOI 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A and Im not upholding his complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A. But I cant ignore the fact that the 
available evidence appears to show that BOI didnt act unfairly here. So I hope Mr A will 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman