DRN-2760979
The complaint
Mr J complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fully settled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr J had booked a package holiday to two countries, which Ill call N and M. He was due to 
take an escorted coach tour through N, before flying onto M. He was scheduled to return to 
the UK on 12 April 2020. He flew to N as planned on 11 March 2020 and started the coach 
trip.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr Js trip was cut short on day 12 and he 
was required to isolate in a hotel room in N. On 21 March 2020, Ns government announced 
the country was going to be placed into lockdown. Mr J had to remain isolated in hotel 
accommodation until he was able to arrange and pay for a flight back to the UK on 16 April 
2020. 
Mr J had incurred additional costs associated with extending his planned trip in N, including 
accommodation, food and prescription costs; together with the costs of buying a new return 
flight and the costs of the trip to M which he wasnt able to take. So he made a claim on his 
travel insurance policy.
As Mr J had paid for optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE) cover, Great Lakes 
assessed his claim under this section of the policy. It agreed to pay Mr M £1000 under the 
Extended Travel Delay and Enforced Stay cover. This paid up to £1000 for irrecoverable 
travel and accommodation costs a policyholder incurred because their public transport was 
delayed by more than 24 hours. And it paid him £1000 under the Additional Overseas 
Accommodation and Repatriation Cover. This paid up to £1000 for irrecoverable transport 
and accommodation costs if an outbreak of infectious disease prevented a policyholder from 
using their booked travel or accommodation. But it told Mr M that his prescription costs 
werent covered and that neither were the remainder of his costs.
Mr J was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Great Lakes had settled Mr Js claim fairly. She thought itd 
been appropriate for it to settle some of the claim under the Extended Travel Delay and 
Additional Overseas Accommodation sections of the policy. And she felt the policy terms 
excluded the costs of medication. But she thought Great Lakes should also consider Mr Js 
claim under the extended curtailment cover provided by the TDE. While she acknowledged 
that Mr Js trip hadnt been cut short, she felt that given hed been confined to his hotel room 
from day 13 of the trip onwards, it would be fair for Great Lakes to treat Mr Js trip as having 
been effectively curtailed from that point on. So she recommended that it should settle Mr Js 
curtailment claim under the TDE cutting short your trip cover. 
Great Lakes disagreed. It said the policy defines what Great Lakes means by curtailment. It 
argued that Mr J didnt cut his trip short  it was extended. This means it wasnt covered by 
the TDE curtailment cover. It said the TDE was there to help with the costs of an extended 
stay  it wouldnt cover the unused portions of a trip, as these wouldnt fall within the 
definitions of cancellation or curtailment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Great Lakes has settled Mr Js claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Js policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether 
Great Lakes handled it fairly.
Ive first considered whether it was reasonable for Great Lakes to assess some of Mr Js 
claim under the Extended Travel Delay and Additional Accommodation Overseas sections of 
the TDE. Having considered the relevant terms, Im satisfied that given the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and that Mr 
J was prevented from using much of his pre-booked accommodation due to an infectious 
disease, it was appropriate for Great Lakes to deal with some of his claim under these 
headings.
Mr J doesnt seem to dispute our investigators finding that the costs of his medication 
werent covered. For completeness though, Ive looked carefully at the medical expenses 
section of the policy. This includes a list of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. One of these 
is: the cost of replacing medication that you were using before your trip. So while I 
appreciate Mr J was left without medication through no fault of his own, I dont think it was 
unfair for Great Lakes to conclude that these costs werent covered.
Ive then turned to think about whether it was fair for Great Lakes to conclude that Mr Js 
curtailment claim wasnt covered. The cancellation and curtailment section of the TDE says:
We will pay you up to a maximum of£5,000 for Comprehensive cover per insured person 
for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay, plus any reasonable additional travel 
expenses incurred if you were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation or the 
trip was cut short before completion as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to;
or
b) recommending evacuation from the country, or specific area or event to which you were 
travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased, renewed or extended 
this insurance or booked the trip.
Great Lakes has included a definition of cutting short a trip. The policy says: the immediate 
direct early return from your trip to your home country, in which case claims will be 
calculated from the day you returned to your home country and based on the number of 
complete days of your trip you have not used.
I acknowledge that Mr Js trip wasnt cut short and it doesnt meet Great Lakes specific definition. Indeed, given Mr J didnt return home until four days later than he planned, its 
clear that his trip in N was significantly extended. So on a strict interpretation of Great Lakes 
policy terms, I agree that Mr Js curtailment claim isnt covered. But I can depart from a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms if I feel they result in an unfair outcome. I think thats the 
case here. 
Mr J was able to make use of the first 12 days of his holiday. His travel providers 
cancellation invoice shows that the trip effectively ended on day 12  and it states that all 
elements of the trip were abandoned on 22 March 2020. Mr Js coach tour ended at this 
point and it seems he was asked to remain in a pre-booked hotel. Shortly afterwards, he was 
moved to another hotel and effectively locked-down as a result of Covid-19. Ive seen a copy 
of the hotel invoice. This states that Mr J was an isolator. Hes told us that his meals were 
brought to him and he was only allowed to leave his room for a walk. Mr J remained in hotel 
isolation up until the point he was able to fly home. The remainder of his trip in N and his 
whole trip to M had to be abandoned.
In my view, at the point Mr J became confined to his room, his holiday was effectively 
curtailed. I dont think this represents a simple loss of enjoyment  I think Mr Js holiday had 
effectively been ended. This was after the date the FCO had advised against all but 
essential travel and Covid-19 had been declared a pandemic. Given these particular 
circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to consider that Mr Js 
holiday was effectively cut short on 22 March 2020, in line with his travel providers 
evidence. In my view, the travel providers evidence is the strongest evidence to show when 
the trip was actually cut short and so I think this the fairest date to use when calculating the 
settlement.
Even though its clear Mr J didnt actually return home early until 16 April 2020, Im satisfied 
his holiday was effectively cut short at the point he was confined to his room between 22 
March and 16 April 2020. In the round, Im persuaded that the fair outcome is for Great 
Lakes to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and treat Mr Js trip as 
having been effectively curtailed on 22 March 2020. And so Im now directing it to settle Mr 
Js curtailment claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Its important I make clear that this doesnt mean that Great Lakes will need to pay Mr Js full 
claim. Im directing it to settle the claim under the extended cutting short your trip cover  
which provides cover for pre-booked unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-
paid charges. This means its entitled to assess which of the outstanding costs it hasnt 
already settled and which of those remaining costs that Mr J has claimed for fall within the 
scope of this cover. If Mr J is unhappy with the settlement hes paid, hell need to raise that 
with Great Lakes separately.
Ive noted that the terms of Mr Js policy allow Great Lakes to recover any expenses it 
considers to be recoverable from elsewhere, using its rights of subrogation. If Great Lakes 
considers that any of the payments it has made to Mr J are recoverable from another source 
its open to use its subrogation rights to try and recover its outlay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle Mr Js curtailment claim from 22 March 2020 up 
until the end of his pre-booked trip, less any costs its already paid and, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must add interest at an annual rate of 8% 
simple to the settlement from the date of claim until the date of payment.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman