DRN-3615980
The complaint
K, a limited company, is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited turned down a claim it made on 
the public liability section of its small business insurance policy. K is represented by one of 
its directors, Mr S. 
What happened
K is a locksmiths. In July 2021 Mr S attended an emergency call out for a customer who was 
locked out of their property. Mr S says a lock on a glass door had failed and the lock needed 
to be drilled out and replaced. While that work was being carried out damage was caused to 
the surrounding glass. Mr S contacted Ageas to make a claim on the public liability section of 
Ks policy. Ageas turned down the claim because it said the policy didnt cover liability for 
Property being worked upon where the Damage is as a direct result of the work undertaken. 
Our investigator accepted the damage had occurred as a result of the work undertaken. But 
he thought the property being worked on was the lock. And the claim related to damage to 
the surrounding glass in the door. So he didnt think the exclusion had been correctly 
applied. He said Ageas should cover the claim and pay K £150 to recognise the 
inconvenience it had been caused. 
Ageas didnt agree. It thought the nature of this door meant the locking mechanism was far 
more integral than would otherwise be the case. Taking that, and comments from the 
customer into account, it thought the work would have involved working on other parts of the 
door rather than just the lock (and that had led to the glass being damaged). It thought the 
exclusion did apply. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Ageas has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And when an insurance claim is 
made its for the insured to show there has been an insured peril  an event thats covered 
under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim or prove that an exclusion 
applies.
Ks policy includes public liability cover for accidental damage to property. I dont think 
theres any dispute the claim K made could be covered by this section of its policy. The issue 
is whether Ageas has shown an exclusion applies. The relevant exclusion says the policy 
doesnt cover liability for Property being worked upon where the Damage is as a direct 
result of the work undertaken. The policy defines Property as Material property. And it 
defines Damage as Loss, destruction or damage. It's agreed the damage to the door 
glass came about as a direct result of the work undertaken. The question is whether that 
was the property being worked on. 
The information Ive seen suggests K was contacted by the customer because he couldnt 
obtain access to his property. K says that was because the door lock had failed (and I 
havent seen anything to suggest there was any other problem with the door which was 
causing the issue). The invoice K submitted to the customer references a call out fee and a 
charge for a replacement lock cylinder. Mr S has also provided a statement from the Master 
Locksmiths Association which says We can confirm you would be working on the lock when 
opening, not the door unless you were adjusting door alignment issues.
So I think its reasonable to say the property being worked on would be the lock. And any 
damage to that would be caught by the exclusion. I understand K accepts that. But I dont 
think work to replace a lock would normally involve working on the rest of the door or the 
door glass. Ageas appear to have accepted that but argue for the door in question the 
locking mechanism is so integral it isnt possible to work on that in isolation. Its provided 
some photographs of the door in support of its position which Ive reviewed. 
These are limited in what they show but in themselves I dont think they do demonstrate that 
the lock couldnt have been worked on in isolation. Its clearly visible in the photographs and 
appears to be accessible without working on the rest of the door. And the testimony from the 
customer is that damage was caused because Mr S thrashed too hard on the lock which 
damaged the surrounding area. That doesnt suggest there was a requirement to work on 
the rest of the door in order to carry out the work to the lock. 
I appreciate damage to the door glass did occur when Mr S was trying to remove the lock 
cylinder. But I dont think Ageas has shown the door (rather than the lock) was the material 
property K was working on. So I dont think it acted correctly in turning down the claim it 
made.  
Putting things right
Ageas cant rely on the exclusion it used to turn down the claim about the damage to the 
door glass. So it will need to cover the claim K made about that subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. I also agree K has been inconvenienced by the incorrect 
decline of the claim and so Ageas will also need to pay it £150 in recognition of that. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman