DRN-2551973
The complaint
Mr Q has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) unfairly cancelled his home insurance policy as if it never existed (avoided) for 
recklessly misrepresenting information when he bought the policy.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr Q bought a home insurance policy with NFU. NFU asked Mr Q if hed 
made a claim in the past three years. Mr Q said he hadnt. But he had made a claim to his 
previous insurer two months before. 
At renewal in 2019, Mr Q told NFU about the claim. NFU avoided Mr Qs policy as it said it 
wouldnt have offered him a policy if it had known about the claim. It said the 
misrepresentation was reckless, and so it kept the premium Mr Q had paid in 2018 and 
2019. 
Mr Q complained to NFU. He said the claim hadnt been accepted by his previous insurer 
when he bought the policy with NFU in September 2018, and so he didnt think he needed to 
disclose it. 
NFU agreed to refund the premium Mr Q had paid for the 2019 policy and paid him £100 
compensation. But it maintained its decision to avoid the policy from 2018 and retain the 
premium paid under this policy.
Mr Q asked us to look at things for him. Our investigator looked at the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as we take this into account for Mr Qs 
complaint and NFUs decision to cancel his policy. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He found that NFU has asked Mr Q a clear 
question about whether hed made any claims in the three years before buying the policy in 
2018. He thought NFUs decision to class the misrepresentation as reckless was fair. 
Mr Q didnt agree. In summary Mr Q wants NFU to remove the avoidance cancellation 
marker against his record. He says the policy in question had been cancelled after it had 
expired. He said he wasnt to know he had to declare the claim as it was some months 
before his previous insurer accepted it. Mr Q says the fact that he declared the claim at 
renewal shows his motive wasnt to deceive NFU. 
So as Mr Q didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
NFU has provided a recording of the call Mr Q made to get a quote to buy a home insurance 
policy. The agent asked Mr Q if he had made any claims in the past three years. Mr Q 
answered no. I think this was a clear question which Mr Q didnt answer correctly as Mr Q 
had made a claim to his previous insurer in July 2018. The agent also asked Mr Q if in the 
past five years Mr Q had a claim made against him, or made a claim or suffered any 
uninsured loss. Mr Q answered no.
Mr Q says that the reason why he didnt disclose the claim was because it wasnt clear at the 
time if his previous insurer intended to accept the claim. But I dont think this makes a 
difference. I think the question NFU asked was if Mr Q had made a claim, which he had. And 
given how recently the claim had been made, and the fact that it was being considered when 
Mr Q applied for this policy, I think it would have been fresh in Mr Qs mind.  Therefore I think 
Mr Q reasonably ought to have known this information was relevant to NFU and so he acted 
recklessly by choosing to withhold the details of this claim from NFU when he applied for the 
policy in September 2018.
NFU sent Mr Q policy documents, which highlighted the importance of checking the 
information provided was correct and to contact it if anything wasnt. NFU provided a 
statement which summarised the key information based on Mr Qs answers when he applied 
for the policy. The key statement reads:
No-one has made any insurance claims, suffered any uninsured losses or had a 
claim made against them in the past five years (other than those due to flood, 
subsidence, heave or landslip).
NFU gave Mr Q a further opportunity to contact it if the information hed given in the call 
wasnt correct, or if he wasnt sure. But Mr Q didnt contact NFU until a year later.
So, I dont think Mr Q took reasonable care in answering the questions when he first took out 
the policy in September 2018. And therefore, I think NFUs decision to class the 
misrepresentation as reckless was reasonable.
I am satisfied if Mr Q had answered yes to the questions about having made a previous 
claim, it would have led to disclosure of the claim still being open with Mr Qs previous 
insurer. NFU has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria to show that because of this it would have declined offering insurance. We cant share an insurers underwriting criteria as 
its commercially sensitive. But we can check in order to be satisfied that the insurer has 
treated a customer fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
Im satisfied from the evidence provided that NFU wouldnt have provided a policy to Mr Q if 
it had known about the claim. And so this means I think NFUs decision to cancel Mr Qs 
policy as if it didnt exist was reached reasonably and in line with CIDRA. The fact that the 
policy had expired by the time the misrepresentation came to light doesnt mean the 
avoidance shouldnt stand. I think NFU has treated Mr Q fairly and as it would any other 
customer in the same circumstances. 
I understand Mr Q is disappointed with NFUs decision. But I think it was entitled to avoid Mr 
Qs policy in line with CIDRA for reckless misrepresentation and keep the premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman