DRN-3964330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V, as trustees of the V L Trust, complain about the way Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited has administered a term assurance policy. They say the information provided 
failed to explain that the policy couldnt be renewed again after it expired in 2022. As Mr and 
Mrs V are the only trustees, Ill refer to them throughout.
What happened
In 1975 a renewable level term assurance policy was taken. The policy had an original 10-
year term but the cover was renewed on several occasions. The last being in September 
2011 where a policy with Mr V as the life assured was taken out for a further 11 years. 
Around the time when the cover under the 2011 policy was due to end in 2022, Mr and Mrs 
V attempted to renew it again but Aviva said this wouldnt be possible, so the policy expired. 
Mr and Mrs V were unhappy about this as it left them without the cover they required. 
Following this they raise a complaint on behalf of the trust.   
Aviva responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
- The new policy was created in 2011 (following the renewal of a previous policy). It 
confirmed what was included when the renewal option was exercised. It issued a 
new acceptance offer to show what is included and not included. At the new expiry 
date Mr V would have been over the maximum limit at which it allows the renewal 
option to be utilised, so it was unable to offer this feature. This is further confirmed on 
the policy documents which do state the renewal option is not available and couldnt 
be used again.
- It is unable to provide a new policy due to underwriting criteria meaning the 
application was declined.
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree with Avivas response. So referred the complaint to this service for 
an independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They didnt find 
that the policy had been mis-sold. In summary they said they were satisfied Aviva had 
provided the relevant information regarding the renewal option, in a clear, fair, and not 
misleading way. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree with the investigators findings. They provided further 
submissions. In summary they said:
- The renewal letter should have included a specific clause notifying them of such an 
important change to the conditions of the policy.
- Without the inclusion of a renewable feature, they would never have taken out the 
policy back in 1975.
- They accept they were told to check the policy carefully to ensure that it met their 
requirements. But since the policy was not new, they had a right to assume that it did 
not contain crucial changes otherwise it should have been pointed out in the cover 
letter - hence they did not read the full document.
- As the policy had radically changed by the 2011 renewal, they never would have 
entered it with knowledge of the removal of the auto-renewal clause. So, Aviva 
should refund the premiums paid for the last 11 years.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Vs strength of feeling about the complaint. I acknowledge 
their upset and frustration at not having the life cover they understood would be in place and 
this has now left them in a position where it is extremely difficult to find alternative cover. But 
in order to uphold the complaint, I must find that failings by Aviva has resulted in the losses 
claimed. 
From the submissions made by Mr and Mrs V, it is clear that when they original took out 
cover in 1975 they valued the renewal option on their original policy. This appears to have 
been a key feature that attracted them to the policy. It also appears that they understood that 
each time they renewed the policy, it was a continuation of the original policy. However, 
Aviva has explained that when the policy was renewed by itself in 2011, it was providing a 
new policy and not a continuation of an existing policy. My understanding of the situation is 
that Avia is correct in this statement. 
As Aviva didnt sell the original policy, I cant hold it responsible for any misunderstanding 
about how the renewal option was originally explained. Aviva say Mr and Mrs V approached 
it directly in 2011 to exercise the option on the current policy to renew. It says no advice was 
given on the suitability of the new policy and it just provided a quote based on the 
information given in the renewal application. As Mr and Mrs V had previously been able to 
renew on more than one occasion, I understand why they assumed that this was a feature 
that was a continuous element of the original policy they took out. But I havent found that a 
failing by Aviva has resulted in misleading Mr and Mrs V about how the renewal feature 
works. 
Ive looked at the information available from the time the 2011 renewal was completed. Due 
to the passage of time, I havent been provided with full information, but there is some 
documentation to explain what was included as part of the new policy. The application form 
that was completed shows Mr V was to be the person covered. There is a question that 
says, Are you the person to be covered by the new policy this is answered yes. This 
followed by a note that says the people covered by the new policy must be the same as the 
current plan. Details were given relating to Mr Vs smoking habits and type of occupation, 
indicating this was to be considered as part of premium and availability of cover 
considerations. All of this further supports this was a new policy, not a continuation of an 
existing one. It also details the renewal option is being exercised and a £500,000 sum 
assured over 11 years is requested. 
Ive also reviewed the copy of the policy schedule that was provided after the policy had 
been accepted. This shows a new policy number was given. It details the premium payable 
for the sum assured and term requested (which is in line with the application). There is a 
section regarding the features included  this says renewable option not included. It also 
gives a warning that the policy should be reviewed carefully to ensure it meets your 
requirements. 
Having considered the available evidence, I havent found that Aviva mis-led Mr and Mrs V 
about the features of the new policy they took out in 2011. It is clear from the schedule that 
the new policy didnt include a renewal option. While Mr and Mrs V assumed it did, Ive 
already explained why I dont think Aviva is at fault here. I understand that Mr and Mrs V believe that Aviva should had done more to alert them to the 
fact the new policy didnt come with the same features as the previous policy. Ive carefully 
considered this point, but Im not persuaded it was required to do this. As Ive explained, this 
was a new policy. Aviva set out the terms on which it was prepared to offer cover and what 
this included. Aviva has given reasons for the renewal option not being offered (due to Mr V 
exceeding the maximum age). It is able to make decisions on the cover it offers when 
agreeing a new policy, so I dont find it has acted incorrectly here. Mr and Mrs V accepted 
the quote and cover terms offered. It is unfortunate that they didnt appreciate the new policy 
wasnt the same as the original and previously renewed policies but I dont think this is 
sufficient to say Aviva is at fault.
I note Mr and Mrs V have requested a refund of premiums for the 2011 policy. They say they 
wouldnt have agreed to the policy had they understood it couldnt be renewed. Aviva were 
on risk for duration of this policy, and although no claim event occurred, cover was still 
provided. For reasons explained, Ive not found Aviva at fault for how it explained the new 
policy, so Im unable to recommend premiums be returned.  
I understand Mr and Mrs V will be disappointed with my findings, but I havent found reasons 
to say Aviva is at fault. It follows that I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V as 
trustees of the V L Trust to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman