DRN-3915225
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled a 
claim they made on their motor insurance policy following a collision.
What happened
Mrs F has led the complaint with this Service so Ill mainly refer to her throughout.
Mrs F has a car insured under a motor insurance policy underwritten by Admiral, on 
which she is a named driver. 
Mrs F says she very lightly nudged a car while she was parking. The third party  
driver (TP) of the other vehicle accused Mrs F of having caused various areas of 
damage to his car some of which Mrs F says were pre-existing.
A claim was made on Mrs Fs policy. She disputed the extent of the damage to the 
TPs car and said that some of the damage to hers was as a result of a prior collision 
with her garage door. 
Admiral arranged an expert inspection of the two cars to check the compatibility of 
the damage with the TPs version of events. When the expert said the damage 
wasnt compatible, Admiral confirmed it would defend the claim. But Mrs F felt it 
should have considered the damage to her property as this would confirm her story 
and provide important evidence in defence of her case.
Mrs F was unhappy with various aspects of Admirals service through the claim and 
complained. Admiral issued a final response and accepted that it hadnt asked its 
vehicle inspector to assess the age of the damage to Mrs F s car in light of her 
explanation about the historic nature of some of it. Admiral also apologised for a 
number of other customer service related issues, including poor communication, and 
it paid Mrs F compensation of £150. 
Mrs F remained unhappy and raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator 
upheld the complaint and said Admiral hadnt responded to her enquiries about the 
inspection of the damage to her house. She said Admiral should obtain a report 
about this as it would be relevant to the case. She said the £150 compensation was 
fair in the circumstances.
Admiral provided a copy of the vehicle inspection report but didnt explain why it 
considered the inspection of the property damage to be unnecessary. So, the 
complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has accepted its communication about progress on the claim should have 
been better and while it did provide updates to Mrs F, this was often only as a result 
of her getting in contact first. It also acknowledged it should have provided details of 
its complaint department and responded to her complaint more quickly. Having 
considered the evidence, I agree with this.
It also acknowledged it hadnt asked the vehicle inspector to comment on the age of 
the damage to Mrs Fs car and the consistency between it and the damage to her 
home. Mrs F considered this to be a strong part of the evidence and was 
disappointed Admiral hadnt followed this line of enquiry.
Our Investigator said Admiral should consider the damage to Mrs Fs property as part 
of its defence of the claim. I acknowledge Admiral provided a copy of the vehicle 
inspection report but this didnt reference the age of the damage or the compatibility 
with the damage to Mrs Fs property. 
While Admiral confirmed it would be defending the claim, I note that our investigator 
asked it why it hadnt looked to get this additional evidence in support of the defence 
but it didnt respond on this point. And without an explanation as to why it didnt, I feel 
it would seem fair to get this now as our Investigator has suggested, as it would 
potentially strengthen the defence of Mrs Fs claim. So, I will be directing it to do this 
as part of my decision. 
Having considered everything carefully, Im satisfied the £150 offered by Admiral is a 
fair and reasonable way for it to recognise the impact on Mrs F of its poor claim 
handling and communication, together with the poor complaint handling it 
acknowledged in its final response.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs F £150 for the distress and inconvenience it caused them, if it hasnt 
done so already.
Obtain evidence and expert opinion on the age and compatibility of the pre-existing 
damage to Mrs Fs car and her property to assist with the defence of the third-party 
claim.      
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman