DRN-2617692
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt record a default against her account when 
her account was in arrears and had entered a debt management plan in 2014.
What happened
Ms M had a credit account with Vanquis. In 2014, Ms M encountered financial difficulties and 
entered a debt management plan. 
Ms M had several other creditors at that time, all of whom recorded a default on her credit 
file at the point that she entered the debt management plan. However, Vanquis didnt do this, 
but instead accepted the payment plan proposed to them and recorded this on Ms Ms credit 
file moving forwards.
More then six years have now elapsed since Ms M entered into the debt management plan, 
and the defaults recorded by her other creditors at that time no longer show on her credit file 
because of this. But because Vanquis accepted the payment plan, which Ms M was only 
able to settle in 2019, details of this payment plan are still visible on her credit file.
Ms M wasnt happy about this and thought that it wasnt fair that details of the repayment of 
her balance with Vanquis should remain visible on her credit file. So, she made a complaint.
Vanquis looked at Ms Ms complaint, but they noted that they were entitled to accept the 
payment plan and that they had made accurate reports to the credit reference agencies 
about this. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Vanquis were entitled 
to accept the payment plan, so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms M would prefer that her account had been defaulted by Vanquis in 
2014 and recorded as such on her credit file. But Im not convinced that, by Vanquis 
accepting the payment plan proposed to them, an unfair outcome has arisen as a result.
I say this because when a customer has borrowed money, either via a set loan amount or by 
a line of credit, its almost always going to be case that this service will consider it fair that 
the customer pays that money back. And I think thats the case here. 
It follows from this that Vanquis were entitled to choose a reasonable course of action which 
they believed offered them the best chance of recovering the outstanding balance that Ms M 
owed to them.
And given that that details of the proposed payment plan meant that the outstanding balance 
would be cleared in a period of approximately four and a half years, and that the proposed 
monthly payment was a significant percentage of the contractual minimum payment, I am 
satisfied that Vanquis were entitled to accept the payment plan that was proposed to them 
as a part of Ms Ms overall debt management plan.
I understand that Ms Ms other creditors took a different course of action to Vanquis and 
applied defaults to her credit file at that time. But it doesnt follow from this that Vanquis 
should have followed the same course of action, and they were entitled to make their own 
assessment of how they wanted to proceed.
What this service would expect is that Vanquis made accurate reports to the credit reference 
agencies regarding this payment plan. And having reviewed Ms Ms credit file, it appears 
that they did that here. And I note that the regular payment amount reported to the credit 
reference agencies was the monthly repayment amount proposed as a part of the debt 
management plan.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Ms M has been treated unfairly or unreasonably here. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Vanquis to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman