DRN-2477481
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way that his home insurance claim for water damage was handled
by U K Insurance Limited and with the settlement offered to him for remedial repairs.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr H became aware that there was a problem with his drains, as he had an
infestation of flies. He was advised that the problem related to the soil pipe under the bath.
He contacted UKI who appointed a drain company to look at the issues. But when they came
out they caused more damage. They attempted to fix the drains with resin but were
unsuccessful. They had to remove the bathroom furniture to gain access. But when the toilet
was refitted the flooring wouldnt go back and there were leaks from the cistern when flushed
and the sink taps started dripping on the flooring. The tiles were chipped when the bath was
removed and poorly sealed and grouted. Also resin was spilt on Mr Hs drive and the
bathroom window was damaged by equipment being brought through it.
Mr H was reluctant to allow the drain company back but he agreed for them to do so.
Eventually the damaged section of pipe was repaired. Mr H was also told he didnt need to
call out pest control but when the problem persisted he had to arrange for a pest control
company to deal with this. UKI reimbursed him. Mr H was without basic facilities for several
weeks. UKI offered to place him in alternative accommodation but he turned this down. It
paid him a £10 a day disturbance allowance which he felt was a paltry amount compared to
the cost of a hotel. It has caused him a great deal of stress and he was hospitalised at one
stage as he had suffered heart palpitations.
UKI offered to send out new contractors to rectify all the issues with the bathroom and the
drive. It also paid Mr H a total of £550 compensation. Mr H didnt want the contractors as
hed checked their reviews online and found them to be unfavourable. He obtained quotes 
for the bathroom but these allowed for the whole bathroom suite to be replaced. UKI said the
bathroom could be repaired. It offered Mr H a cash settlement based on the cost to UKI of its
contractors and for repair, rather than replacement of the bathroom. Mr H insisted that the
whole bathroom needed replacement but he did get quotes from contractors for repair, and
these were considerably more than UKIs cash settlement offer.
UKI declined to increase the settlement pointing out that under the policy terms it will not pay
more than the amount which it would have cost it to repair or rebuild the damaged part using
its own suppliers.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that as the damage had been caused by UKIs 
contractors, the policy terms didnt apply and Mr H was entitled to use his own contractor. I 
proposed that UKI pay a cash settlement equivalent to the lowest of his contractors quotes. I 
said the proposed compensation award was reasonable.
Mr H believed UKI should pay for a new bathroom to be installed, bearing in mind how long 
its been left. He further thought that UKI should in any case offer to pay for a new kitchen by 
way of an apology for the damage its contractors had done.
In respect of the contractors quotes he only has one full quote for the repair (rather than 
replacement) of the bathroom. The other quotes have to be mixed with plumbers quotes and 
the cost of materials. He believes UKI should pay by way of cash settlement the amount of 
the full quote. He has quotes for the driveway and the bathroom window which UKI has 
accepted.
Mr H further believes the compensation award wasnt sufficient. He pointed out that he had 
been hospitalised twice as a result he believes of UKIs actions.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
The first point is that the damage which UKI has quoted for and offered for its contractors to
fix was mostly caused by the drainage company it employed. UKI sent out a loss adjuster
who reported as follows:
The damage occurred when [the drain company] attempted to fix the drains. Originally
attempted resin sleeve but this failed and accessed pipe from under bathroom floor. To do
this the bathroom furniture removed. On return toilet refitted in a different position. [Mr Hs]
flooring won't go back, cistern leaks when flushed, sink taps refitted out of alignment and
these are dripping onto the flooring, [Mr H] has fitted tongue and groove flooring, [drain
company] replaced with chipboard and this does not go up to wall, tiles chipped when
removing bath chips just grouted over, sealant of poor quality, resin split on to drive.
..Bricks appear undamaged but resin has gone around on to tar.
It is correct to say that for damage to the buildings by any of the causes listed in the policy,
UKI is entitled in the event of a cash settlement to pay only what it would cost it to use its
contractors. But as Ive said the damage was caused by the drain company in an attempt to
carry out repairs under the policy. And this wasnt a case of there being a few issues with the
repairs which UKI should rightly have been given an opportunity to repair. So in my view UKI
isnt entitled to rely on the terms of the policy in its offer to repair the damage.
Mr H doesnt want UKIs contractors to repair the damage. And I think hes entitled to use his
own contractors. But I cant say that the whole bathroom suite should be replaced. UKI has
assessed that its repairable, and Mr H has had quotes to repair rather than replace. I think
UKI should pay a cash settlement equivalent to the lowest of those quotes. Ive noted that
his quotes dont deal with cleaning up the driveway. He should get a separate quote for that
and UKI should pay it.
As regards the allowance he was paid of £10 per day when he was without facilities, that is
reasonable and is the industry standard amount. UKI offered for Mr H to stay in alternative
accommodation but he opted to stay in his home.
Mr H was paid £550 compensation. I understand that the matter caused him a lot of stress
and I can see that it was identified as a potential trigger for his heart problems. But I cant
hold UKI responsible for this. The drain problem took about four weeks to resolve. And I can
understand his being annoyed at being wrongly told that the infestation didnt need to be
dealt with. But I do note that UKI paid for this without quibble. And although I appreciate that
the repairs still remain to be done I cant require UKI to pay compensation for the time it hasbeen waiting to be resolved through this service. I think the compensation paid is
reasonable.
In respect of the quotes Mr H has, he does have three quotes for repair to rather than 
replacement of the bathroom. I should point out that Ive made no finding concerning 
whether the contractors UKI proposed using were adequate or not, and I wouldnt rely on 
online reviews. Mr H is entitled to use his own contractors if he wants to, hes not bound by 
the policy term in that respect. But UKI only has to pay a reasonable amount to repair the 
damage its contractors caused. I dont think in that event it would be reasonable to expect it 
to pay for what appears to be Mr Hs most expensive quote. I think it reasonable that UKI 
pay the lowest of Mr Hs quotes, also taking into account the cost of materials and 
installation. If UKI wants to pay more, or pay the cost of a new bathroom, thats a matter for 
it. Ive noted that it has agreed the cost of the bathroom window, at £300 and the driveway at 
£929.50.
As far as compensation is concerned, Mr H has advised that he was hospitalised twice, 
suffering from heart palpitations. Once due to the extreme stress caused by the drainage 
problems. He hadnt suffered heart problems before. The second time was when he realised 
that UKI was proposing to use contractors that had had bad reviews. I stand by my 
provisional views on this, although I recognise that its not easy to say why a particular 
health problem arose. As Ive said I dont think UKI should be criticised for its choice of 
contractor on purely anecdotal evidence. I think the award of compensation is reasonable.
My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr H a cash settlement equivalent to the lowest of his contractors quotes for
repairing the bathroom, including the cost of materials and installation, £929.50 for the cost 
of cleaning/repairing the driveway and £300 for the bathroom window. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to act in accordance
with what Ive said under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman