DRN-3129305
The complaint
Mr O complains about his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA). His complaint relates 
to the rejection of a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property from 
an escape of water and the avoidance of his policy. 
RSA use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to RSA includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr O came home to find a collapsed ceiling and other damage to his 
kitchen, which appeared to be from an escape of water. Mr O contacted RSA to make a 
claim for the damage, who told him to arrange for a plumber to repair the leak. A plumber 
attended and said the cause was a leak from a shower pump in the bathroom above the 
kitchen. RSA appointed a surveyor (S) to visit the property and assess the damage. 
Following a report from S, RSA appointed a second firm (C) to investigate the circumstances 
of the claim and to validate it. 
As part of the claim process, Mr O provided photographs of the damage to RSA. RSA 
examined them and concluded some were taken in 2019, when Mr O had made a claim for 
damage due to a previous escape of water. He received a cash settlement from his insurer 
(also RSA, though the policy was with a different provider) to enable repair work to be 
carried out. RSA concluded Mr O had tried to claim for damage he said occurred in 2021, 
but for which he had previously received a cash settlement.
 
Based on this, RSA didnt think Mr O had presented his 2021 claim in good faith, so was in 
breach of the policy terms and conditions. RSA then avoided Mr Os policy from the date he 
provided the photographs as well as declining his claim. Because they considered Mr O 
hadnt acted in good faith, RSA invoked a fraud exclusion in the policy which meant they 
retained the premiums hed paid in respect of the policy.
Mr O complained to RSA, but they didnt uphold it. In their final response they said theyd 
identified the need to investigate the circumstances of his claim. RSA referred to the 
investigation finding some photographs to support the claim were taken following the 2019 
leak. RSA also said Mr O hadnt provided any evidence to support work carried out to repair 
the damage in 2019. Based on this, RSA confirmed their decision to decline Mr Os claim, 
avoid his policy and not to refund his premiums.
Mr O then complained to this service, unhappy at how his claim had been handled by RSA 
and how theyd treated him. His main points were that he felt RSA unfairly declined his claim 
and hadnt considered reports from contractors supporting his claim. Also, theyd then 
cancelled his policy and retained his premiums. He also thought hed been discriminated 
against because of his race. He wanted RSA to reinstate his policy, pay for the repair of the 
damage to his property and pay compensation for the impact on him and his family.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Mr O had provided incorrect 
information to RSA about his 2021 claim. Mr O also hadnt been able to produce evidence to 
support repair work being carried out after his 2019 claim. The investigator concluded that 
RSA had done enough to support application of the fraud exclusion of Mr Os policy to 
decline his claim and avoid the policy. The investigator also concluded that RSA had acted 
fairly towards Mr O and that there hadnt been unnecessary delays in dealing with the claim 
and his complaint to them.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said the leak in 2021 had damaged the repair work carried out in 2019 and 
that RSA had mis-represented the evidence about his claim. He didnt think RSA had treated 
him fairly and had discriminated against him because of his race. He also felt that RSA 
wouldnt have treated another customer in the same circumstances in the same way had 
they been of a different race.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mr O.
 
There are several aspects to Mr Os complaint. Firstly, that RSA acted unfairly when they 
declined his claim and avoided his policy. Secondly, that they mis-represented the evidence 
to support their actions, including that from contractors. Thirdly, that there were delays in 
dealing with his claim and complaint and RSAs communication with him during the process.
 
In looking at each of these, Ive also considered what Mr O has told us about how RSA had 
treated him. I know Mr O feels that they discriminated against him because of his race. But 
this service cant make a finding on whether an act or omission is discriminatory under the 
provisions of the Equality Act 2010, only a court can do this. However, as the Act is relevant 
to Mr Os complaint, Ive taken it into account when considering whether RSA acted in a fair 
and reasonable way. Ive also considered whether his race played a part in the way in which 
RSA handled the claim made under the policy, and its decision to ultimately decline the 
claim and avoid the policy.
 
Coming back to the specific aspects of the complaint, on the first aspect Ive considered 
RSAs decision to decline his claim and avoid his policy. The reasons given by RSA were, 
firstly, that some photographs provided from Mr O that he maintains showed the damage in 
2021 did, in fact, date back to 2019. And, secondly, that Mr O was unable to provide any 
evidence or demonstrate any work had been completed following his 2019 claim and the 
cash settlement he received. Mr O maintains that the damage for his claim did occur in 2021 
and that it damaged the repair work carried out after his 2019 claim. He also thinks that RSA 
mis-represented the evidence against him in order to decline his claim and that he provided 
some of the photographs in error. Mr O also maintains that he didnt keep copies of invoices 
for the work carried out following his claim in 2019.
 
Ive considered these points carefully. On the first point made by RSA, Ive looked at the 
photographs that Mr O provided as part of his claim in 2021 and in 2019 and which RSA say 
are the same. Ive looked at them and they are the same, indicating the same damage. Ive 
also looked at the reports of the surveyors that inspected Mr Os property after the leak in 
2019 and the report from S in 2021, which are consistent with the photographs.
 
Ive also looked at the scope of the work for which Mr Os 2019 claim was settled. RSAs 
view is that the evidence (from the photographs) shows that the repair work for which the 
settlement was made wasnt carried out (such as replacement of kitchen cabinets and wall 
tiles), Ive looked at the photographs from both 2019 and 2021, together with Mr Os 
statement in the interview with C that he only carried out cosmetic work and redecoration following the 2019 damage. From these Ive concluded that Mr O provided photographs of 
damage he maintains occurred in 2021, but which was from 2019, and that repair work for 
which he received a cash settlement in 2019 wasnt carried out.
 
Mr O maintains that he included the photographs in error. But Ive listened to the recording of 
the interview between Mr O and C and he clearly states that the photographs were all from 
2021 when hes asked directly to confirm it. So, Im not persuaded by Mr Os explanation. In 
any event, given what Ive said about the same damage being present in both 2019 and 
2021, Mr Os explanation doesnt affect my conclusion that the evidence indicates that 
damage sustained in 2019  for which he received a cash settlement  wasnt repaired and 
for which Mr O claimed in 2021.
Nor am I persuaded by Mr Os view that the leak in 2021 damaging the repair work carried 
out in 2019  given that the damage is the same from the photographs and reports, I dont 
think the same damage is likely to have happened twice in what looks to be the same way in 
the same place.
On the second point made by RSA, that Mr O is unable to supply invoices to support repair 
and restoration work carried out following his 2019 claim, I dont think its unreasonable for 
RSA to ask for evidence that work was carried out following the 2019 claim and settlement. 
Particularly as the evidence from the photographs (and reports) indicate the same damage 
in 2019 and 2021. Mr O says that he didnt keep invoices or other evidence of the work 
carried out after the claim in 2019, as it was more than a year ago. However, Im not 
persuaded by this, when considered alongside the point about the same damage appearing 
in both 2019 and 2021.
RSA maintain that their investigation of the circumstances of Mr Os claim showed doubts 
about whether hed made his claim in good faith, given the circumstances of his earlier claim 
and the evidence that he provided. In declining his claim and avoiding his policy, RSA cited a 
fraud condition in the policy. The condition, Fraud, is set out in the Policy Conditions section:
 If your familyuses dishonestly, exaggeration or false documentation to obtain or 
support:
A claims payment under your policy
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be 
entitled to have your premium refunded
Ive concluded that Mr O provided evidence damage in 2019 wasnt repaired and was mis-
represented as occurring in 2021. Given this, on the information and evidence available, Ive 
concluded that RSA acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Os claim, avoiding his policy 
and retaining his premiums in accordance with the above policy condition.
The second element of Mr Os complaint is that RSA mis-represented the evidence to 
support their actions, including that supplied from contractors. Given my conclusion about 
RSAs decision to decline Mr Os claim and avoid his policy, I dont agree. The only reports 
from contractors that Ive seen are those from S about the 2021 leak and from the surveyor 
about the 2019 leak (and a separate report from a restoration company, R, who inspected 
Mr Os property in 2021). Ive looked at each report and they record factually the results of 
the inspections. I dont think RSA have misrepresented the evidence from these reports, as 
the issue isnt about whether there was an escape of water leading to damage both times. 
Its about whether damage from the 2019 incident was repaired and whether Mr O presented 
his 2021 claim in good faith.
 Mr Os third element of complaint is about the delays in considering his claim and his 
complaint, and a lack of communication. Mr O first contacted RSA on 8 February 2021 to tell 
them about the leak. The RSA case notes indicate that Mr O told them that he found the leak 
after being away for two weeks. This being at a time of national lockdown, together with the 
damage appearing extensive and possibly indicative of an ongoing issue, was the basis for 
RSA to appoint C to investigate the circumstances of the claim and validate it. Its common 
practice for insurers to consider the circumstances when a policyholder lodges a claim and 
to investigate where they believe its appropriate. I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
appoint C in the circumstances of Mr Os claim.
RSA appointed S to inspect the property and assess the damage, and their report is dated 
19 February 2021. Theres a separate report from R, detailing the work that would have 
been required to repair the damage, dated the same day. In the circumstances of the 
national lockdown at the time I dont think that's an unreasonable time from the reporting of 
the leak, particularly as a plumber had already attended to identify the source of the leak and 
repair it. Having appointed C to investigate the claim, shortly after the reports, the case notes 
indicate Mr O was interviewed by C on 2 March, with a follow up request for information on 8 
March and then a report from C on 17 March. RSAs decision to decline Mr Os claim and 
avoid his policy was confirmed in the final response of 13 April. Given the need to carry out 
an investigation, including interviewing Mr O and requests for clarification and information, 
this isnt an unreasonable timescale for such activities, particularly in the circumstances of 
the restrictions in place at the time.
 
Complaints handling itself isnt a regulated activity that falls within the remit of this service, 
but in considering Mr Os complaint I have looked at those aspects that relate to the financial 
service provided by RSA (his home insurance policy and his claim under the policy) that is a 
regulated activity. But Ive noted that RSA responded to Mr Os complaints within the eight-
week period that businesses are required to respond.
In considering RSAs decisions to decline Mr Os claim, avoid his policy and retain the 
premiums, as well as how they handled his claim, Ive taken into account the Equality Act 
2010 and thought about whether RSA acted in a fair and reasonable way. As Ive set out, 
Ive concluded that they did. 
Ive also considered whether Mr O was treated any differently than would a policyholder of a 
different race in the same circumstances. Looking at what happened, including the 
correspondence between Mr O and RSA and their agents, Ive not seen anything to indicate 
that they treated Mr O any differently than they wouldve any other policyholder. Ive also 
listened to the recording of the interview between Mr O and C and its courteous and 
professional. The questions are clear and objective, with clarification and confirmation as Id 
expect. Based on this, I dont think that RSA or their agents treated Mr O any differently than 
they would any other policyholder in the same circumstances
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Os complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman