DRN-4079365
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE cancelled their travel insurance 
policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in September 2021, Mr and Mrs B took out a travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy had start and end dates in        
September 2021 and December 2022 respectively. At the time of taking out the policy, 
Mr B disclosed one medical condition, which Great Lakes accepted. 
In August 2022, Mr B received a new diagnosis relating to a significant change in health. 
In October 2022, he contacted Great Lakes and told it about his new health condition. 
Great Lakes asked Mr B some medical screening questions then told him that it couldnt 
cover his new condition, or anything medically related to that condition, or the treatment 
Mr B was undergoing. Great Lakes subsequently said that it couldnt provide any cover 
and cancelled the policy. Great Lakes paid Mr and Mrs B a pro rata refund of £34.99.    
Mr and Mrs B booked and travelled on a trip without insurance cover. 
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes acted unfairly in cancelling the policy. They say 
that they didnt expect Great Lakes to cover Mr Bs new condition but did not expect it to 
cancel the policy. Mr and Mrs B say that Great Lakes actions left them with a difficult 
decision about whether to take a trip. Mr B says that he was dealing with the shock of his 
diagnosis at the time and Great Lakes didnt behave sympathetically. Mr and Mrs B want 
Great Lakes to reinstate their cover for the number of days remaining on the policy when 
it was cancelled. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes 
had shown that it acted fairly in declining all cover for Mr and Mrs B. The investigator 
said that Great Lakes actions caused upset at an already difficult time and that it could 
have handled better the initial notification of Mr Bs change in medical status. She 
recommended that Great Lakes pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of £100.
Mr and Mrs B accepted what the investigator said but Great Lakes didnt respond. As 
there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says 
that a policyholder must inform Great Lakes about certain changes to health after purchasing 
the policy. The terms also say that Great Lakes may charge an additional premium, add 
additional terms, exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or withdraw cover. If the 
latter, the policyholder may claim irrecoverable cancellation costs for trips already booked or 
a pro rata refund of premium. 
did Great Lakes act unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that 
Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably. I say that because:   
Mr and Mrs Bs policy requires them to tell Great Lakes about certain changes in 
health during the term of the policy. That was what Mr B did in October 2022.  
In general terms, insurers can decide what risks they are willing to cover.             
Great Lakes told Mr B that its underwriting decision was that it could no longer offer 
cover under the policy. This service has asked Great Lakes for evidence from 
underwriting about how it came to that conclusion. That was so that we could 
determine whether it had treated Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably. Great Lakes 
said it couldnt provide what this service had asked for. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Great Lakes has shown that it treated  
Mr and Mrs B fairly and reasonably in cancelling the policy. It hasnt shown how it 
came to its decision about Mr Bs medical conditions and theres nothing to indicate 
why it withdrew cover in relation to Mrs B. So, I cant safely conclude that              
Mr and Mrs B were treated the same as any other customer in the same set of 
circumstances. 
I think that there may have been confusion in this case on Great Lakes part.   
Great Lakes told Mr B that it could no longer offer cover under the policy. But in a 
subsequent referral to the underwriters during Mr and Mrs Bs complaint,         
Great Lakes says that the underwriters said that they could not offer cover for 
anything related to Mr Bs pre-existing conditions. Mr and Mrs B would have 
accepted that but thats not what they were offered by Great Lakes. Instead,   
Great Lakes cancelled the policy and issued a pro rata refund of premium. 
In cases like this, where an insurer withdraws cover entirely, we think its fair and 
reasonable for it to offer to cover the cancellation costs of any pre-booked trip or 
the cost of cover with a new provider, up to the value of any cancellation claim that 
could have been made. Thats not applicable here as Mr and Mrs B booked their 
trip after Great Lakes withdrew cover and travelled uninsured. 
Ive considered the recording of the phone call between Mr B and Great Lakes 
when he told it about his new medical condition. I agree with Mr B that the call 
wasnt handled sympathetically and I understand why it upset him. 
In the complaint form, Mr and Mrs B asked that Great Lakes reinstate the cover 
under their policy. Events have moved on since then and I dont think that its 
appropriate to reinstate cover now. Considering everything, I think that Great Lakes decision to cancel Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy and its handling of Mr Bs phone call caused distress and inconvenience.   
Mr and Mrs B were confused by Great Lakes decision and left with a difficult 
decision about whether they took a much needed trip, which added to their stress 
at an already worrying time. I think that fair and reasonable compensation for that 
is £200. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and 
duration of the distress and inconvenience caused by Great Lakes actions.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I now require Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of 
£200 in relation to their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE should now take 
the step Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman