DRN-4053506
The complaint
Mrs A complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED has repeatedly made errors on her credit report. 
And it has added a Notice of Correction (NOC), which she says has impacted her credit 
score.
What happened
Mrs A has experienced issues with Equifax reporting her name incorrectly in relation to the 
electoral role. Mrs A has brought a complaint to this service about this same issue 
previously. However, Mrs A says that again her details were showing incorrectly when she 
checked her credit report at the start of January 2023, and it took for her to raise the matter 
with Equifax before the matter was put right.
Mrs A also says that Equifax added a NOC to her credit file at the time. She says this 
negatively impacted on her credit score. 
To put things right, Mrs A would like compensation. 
Equifax agreed the information being reported about her was wrong  but it explained that it 
had a process in place where it would manually update Mrs As information, which Mrs A 
was aware of  and it has done this. So, it didnt offer to pay Mrs A any further compensation 
relating to the issue. 
An Investigator considered what both parties had said but they didnt uphold Mrs As 
complaint. They explained that the correction to Mrs As name had been done in a timely 
manner. And that they hadnt seen any evidence that the NOC had impacted Mrs As credit 
score  or impacted her financially. 
Mrs A didnt agree with the Investigator. She felt that the previous Investigator who looked at 
her historic complaint had said that if Equifax made this same mistake again, then she 
should receive an increase in compensation. Mrs A also provided evidence from her local 
council to show that it had provided Equifax with her electoral role information in December 
2022  and so she feels that Equifax had taken too long to update her credit file.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying I have noted that Mrs A has referred a number of complaints to this service 
about Equifax. This decision relates to it not updating her electoral role information in 
December 2022. And that she feels the NOC negatively impacted her credit score. 
Mrs A is aware that Equifax needs to make a manual adjustment to her credit report in 
relation to the electoral role information  this has been the subject of previous complaints 
and so I wont comment on that in much detail. This service doesnt have the power to force 
Equifax to change its systems. And while I accept it must be frustrating for Mrs A to see her 
name reported incorrectly each year when the electoral role information updates, Equifax 
has said that it would update Mrs As information manually. Which I think is a fair resolution 
to the problem.
However, Mrs A feels that Equifax took too long to update her information  and it took for 
her to contact Equifax to put the information right. I can see Mrs A contacted Equifax on 2 
January 2023 to ask for her information to be updated. Equifax said that when Mrs A 
contacted it was already in the process of making the amendments and the information was 
amended on 4 January 2023. I dont find this to be an unreasonable period of time for 
Equifax to make the adjustment. 
Mrs A says she received evidence from her local council to suggest it updated Equifax with 
the electoral role data by 5 December 2022. And Mrs A feels that Equifax ought to have 
made the amendments sooner. Even with this in mind, I still dont find the length of time it 
took for Equifax to amend the credit report to be unreasonable. 
I note that Mrs A has also stated that a previous Investigator said that a compensation award 
should be increased if problems with the information Equifax reported about her persists. Im 
not bound by the actions of my colleagues. And in the circumstances of this case, I dont 
think further compensation is warranted. Mrs A was aware that Equifax would need to make 
manual changes to her credit report. It only received the update from her council in 
December 2022. And the change was made on 4 January 2023. I can also see from a 
previous complaint Mrs A made that this same issue arose  where the council made 
Equifax aware of the changes in December 2021, and Equifax made the amendment in 
January 2022. So, I think Mrs A was aware that this is the process Equifax were following 
when making the changes. 
The inconvenience Mrs A has suffered here is from when she contacted Equifax to update 
the information. But she didnt need to contact Equifax, as it had already explained it had a 
system in place where it would do this for her manually. I dont find the inconvenience to be 
so much that it warrants compensation, and as Ive explained, I dont find the length of time it 
took to make the amendment to be too long.
It doesnt automatically follow that Mrs A should get compensation every time Equifax makes 
the manual adjustment  unless that it isnt completed in a reasonable period of time. In this 
case, Equifax made the change at the start of January which I dont find the be 
unreasonable. 
In relation to the NOC, I havent seen any evidence that persuades me Mrs As credit score 
was impacted by this. I accept that Equifaxs website say it could be, but I havent seen 
evidence to suggest it was, or that Mrs A herself was impacted. A credit score is only visible 
to Mrs A or anyone else she decides to share that with. It isnt viewable by lenders. I also 
havent seen any evidence of Mrs A being declined for credit as a result of the NOC, so I 
cant fairly say that Mrs A has been caused a detriment here  or that Equifax needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman