DRN-3012328
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about a mortgage she holds with UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd. 
She believes UCB acted inappropriately when it started to apply its standard variable rate 
(SVR) of interest to her mortgage in 2009, which she has otherwise described as being 
mis-sold the mortgage product. In addition, Mrs M has said she was subsequently treated 
unfairly when she had difficulty making the contractual payments. Mrs M believes the 
underlying reason for UCBs decisions and treatment of her is systemic racism.
What happened
In 2001 Mrs M took out a mortgage with UCB. The mortgage had interest rate products 
linked to it during the earlier years but in 2009, the product taken in 2007 ended. When that 
happened interest was charged at UCBs SVR thereafter. Subsequently, Mrs M had 
difficulties paying the mortgage and the account went into arrears. This situation culminated 
in UCB deciding to repossess Mrs Ms home. A suspended possession order was issued by 
the courts in 2017 and in 2018 UCB asked the courts to enforce that order. The courts 
granted the request. 
Mrs M appealed the court decision. The court didnt uphold her appeal and the possession 
order remained valid. Despite the courts decision to grant the possession warrant, UCB 
didnt enforce it and instead continued to speak to Mrs M about the mortgage. 
In 2018 Mrs M also complained about the mortgage and the changes made in 2009, which 
she believed resulted in her being unable to afford to pay her mortgage. She also 
complained that UCB hadnt treated her fairly when she was in financial difficulties. 
UCB responded to the complaint, but Mrs M wasnt satisfied with its response. She referred 
her complaint to this service. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues looked at whether we could and should consider the 
different aspects of the complaint. The ombudsman concluded that the concerns about the 
mortgage converting to SVR when the 2007 interest rate product ended had been raised too 
late under our rules. It was also decided the complaint about a subject access request would 
more appropriately be dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office. 
Following this decision, the merits of the remainder of Mrs Ms complaint were considered. 
Another of my ombudsman colleagues considered and issued findings on Mrs Ms concerns 
about how she had been dealt with when she was in financial difficulties, how shed been 
spoken to by members of staff at UCB and the fact that UCB moved to make a request to 
the courts for enforcement of the possession order. A final decision was issued detailing his 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them on 1 November 2018.
In October 2018, while the complaint was with this service, Mrs M offered to start making 
payments to the mortgage of the amount the court had said she should when it had issued 
the suspended possession order in 2017. UCB agreed it wouldnt pursue legal action if 
Mrs M made those payments.
Unfortunately, Mrs M didnt maintain the payment arrangement, with some payments being 
made late and others not at all. The payment arrangement was reset several times and by 
early 2020 UCB had concluded it needed to review the situation before agreeing to put a 
payment arrangement back in place. This was because despite payment arrangements 
being in place, the amount of the arrears had increased. 
Shortly thereafter, UCB was required by government legislation to place all legal action on 
hold. As there was still a valid possession order in place, UCB informed Mrs M that was the 
case. However, it warned that legal action might be reinstated in the future. 
In June 2020 Mrs M explained to UCB she was unable to work because of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Options were discussed with her and she was granted a payment holiday for 
June to November inclusive. 
In August 2020 Mrs M complained to UCB again. UCB said that it didnt consider that any of 
its actions were in any way racially motivated or that shed been treated differently from any 
other customer in the same position. It went on to say that it had addressed Mrs Ms 
concerns about the mis-sale and renewal of her mortgage under a previous complaint. As 
that complaint had been referred to this service, it declined to reconsider the issues or add 
anything to its previous comments. 
When referring her complaint to this service Mrs M detailed that she felt she had been 
discriminated against by UCB not following its own processes and legislation in the selling of 
the mortgage to her. She said UCB had shown a lack of duty of care toward her, which 
without any other explanation of why this was, she perceived to be racially motivated. She 
also said that she believed UCBs actions showed a lack of understanding of what 
constitutes systemic racism and the consequences of this to her as a black customer and 
the adverse impact it has had on her life. Mrs M is also unhappy that UCB failed to put in 
place what she considered to be appropriate processes to prevent and/or address systemic 
racism within its organisation. 
One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ms complaint. She explained that we dont 
reconsider complaints that we have previously assessed and either reached conclusions 
about or excluded. As such, she confirmed we wouldnt look at the issues that had been 
raised in Mrs Ms 2018 complaint again. However, the investigator confirmed that we would 
consider whether UCB had treated Mrs M fairly since our final decision in 2018. 
The investigator went on to do so, but she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
considered UCB had demonstrated a considerable degree of patience over the period, even 
after Mrs M failed to comply with the payment arrangements in place. The investigator was 
also satisfied that Mrs M had been dealt with in the same way as other customers would 
have been in similar circumstances. Overall, she thought UCB had treated Mrs M fairly and 
she wasnt persuaded it had discriminated against her.
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. The complaint was then passed to me to 
consider what aspects of Mrs Ms complaint we could and should consider. I issued a 
decision on 29 July 2021. I was satisfied that most of the complaint points Mrs M had asked 
us to consider in 2020 were the same as the complaint shed referred to us, and wed 
decided, in 2018. I concluded that it wasnt appropriate for us to reconsider the complaint 
Mrs M had made in 2018 again. However, I would be considering Mrs Ms concerns about 
how she had been dealt with since my colleagues final decision in 2018. As such, I gave 
Mrs M the opportunity to make any further submissions she wanted to about that aspect of 
her complaint before it was returned to me for consideration of the merits. Mrs M didnt provide any further evidence in relation to the complaint point I will be 
considering in this decision. She did, however, repeat some comments about the other 
aspects of her complaint. As I am not considering those complaint points, I wont repeat the 
evidence here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer is in financial difficulties a mortgage lender is expected to do what it can 
to assist them. This doesnt necessarily mean agreeing to whatever the consumer wants. 
In this case I am only considering the period from November 2018 onwards. At that point a 
payment arrangement had been agreed. Mrs M was to pay the monthly mortgage payment 
plus an amount on top. She made these payments for a few months, but then began to 
make payments late or miss them completely. When a payment is not received on time or is 
missed, a payment arrangement is deemed to be broken. However, despite Mrs M not 
meeting the terms of the agreement, UCB put it back in place several times in 2019. I cant 
find other than UCB treated Mrs M fairly in doing so.
In early 2020 UCB declined to put the payment arrangement back in place before it had 
reviewed the situation. I dont think this was unreasonable given that Mrs M hadnt made the 
payments she should have.  
It was not long after that Mrs M found herself in further financial difficulties. UCB granted her 
six months of payment holidays. Again, I cant find that UCB could have done anything more 
at the time and cant find it at fault. It was during that payment holiday that Mrs M referred 
her complaint to this service.
Mrs M has said that she believes she was discriminated against during this process. Ive 
considered UCBs treatment of Mrs M carefully, but the evidence doesnt indicate shes been 
treated differently from how I would have expected in such circumstances. Indeed, it could 
be argued that UCB has been more tolerant of broken payment arrangements than many 
lenders would have been. I have seen no evidence of discrimination. 
Overall, I consider UCB treated Mrs M fairly during the period from November 2018 to the 
point she referred her complaint to this service. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
8 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman