DRN-4166448
The complaint
Miss D complains HSBC UK Bank Plc has not treated her fairly when she tried to dispute a 
number of payments on her credit card.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 17 May 2023 in which I outlined the 
background leading up to my review of Miss Ds complaint, so I dont propose to narrate 
everything that has happened again. However, in brief summary:
Miss Ds son made purchases using her HSBC credit card from an online 
marketplace (E), on 15 May 2020. The payments were made via a digital wallet 
operator (P).
Miss D believed the purchases had declined or failed, so she says she made them 
again with her credit card with another bank. However, Miss D said she noticed later 
that the original payments had gone through and so shed paid twice for the same 
things. She asked HSBC for help shortly after.
HSBC provided temporary refunds while it considered whether it was able to claim 
back the payments in question. It tried to reach Miss D to obtain more information but 
was unsuccessful. It reversed the temporary refunds, without warning Miss D, in April 
2021. 
This prompted a complaint from Miss D, who said she had heard nothing from the 
bank about needing more information or anything else. HSBC said this was because 
Miss D had failed to tell it that shed moved address, meaning shed not received its 
letters. It maintained that it couldnt help with obtaining refunds for the disputed 
payments but offered £100 compensation for poor customer service. Dissatisfied with 
this response, Miss D brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
an independent assessment.
In my provisional decision I made the following key findings:
In certain circumstances a consumers bank might be able to help them reclaim funds 
paid by credit card, via the process known as a chargeback, or by honouring its 
potential liabilities under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
I was unable to conclude that the two sets of transactions were duplicates of one 
another. The amounts did not match up exactly, with the individual transactions in 
each set being for different amounts and the overall totals being different too. 
Additionally, the transactions were not made with all the same sellers on the E 
marketplace and appeared to have taken place two days apart. This indicated that, 
rather than being the same items being paid for twice, they were two different sets of 
purchases.
We had contacted P to try to find out more, and they had confirmed Miss D had 
declined purchases on her account with them, on 15 and 16 May 2020. These were 
all to the same supplier (ACI), and one of the declined amounts (£854.36) matched 
the total of the transactions Miss D had disputed with HSBC. But there was still a 
problem in that the £854.36 Miss D had disputed was spread across multiple sellers 
on the E marketplace. Ultimately my view was that the discrepancies between the 
amounts and the sellers meant I couldnt say with any confidence that the 
transactions on the HSBC or other banks credit card were the same purchase being 
paid for multiple times.
While chargebacks could potentially have been pursued by HSBC in relation to a 
duplicated series of transactions, persuasive evidence would have been needed to 
support that they were in fact duplicates, in order for the chargebacks to succeed. 
Given the findings I had made about the transactions, I didnt think Miss D would 
have been able to provide this evidence and it therefore wasnt unreasonable of 
HSBC to have not proceeded further with the chargebacks, regardless of whether 
Miss D had responded to their requests for further information. 
Section 75 of the CCA could potentially have applied to the two disputed amounts 
over £100. Section 75 would cover breaches of contract by the suppliers Miss D had 
paid  specifically that she had paid twice for goods but only received them once. 
However, the same evidential issues Id outlined earlier in my provisional decision 
meant that I didnt think Miss D could show that shed paid for goods she hadnt 
received. And so it wasnt wrong of HSBC not to have honoured a potential claim 
under section 75.
Concluding, my view was that HSBC shouldnt have to refund Miss D in respect of the 
disputed transactions to the sellers on the E marketplace, as she was unable to evidence 
that they were simply duplicate payments for goods she had only received once. However, I 
went on to make further findings about the level of service Miss D had received from HSBC, 
which I thought had been very poor in places:
I couldnt fault HSBC for Miss Ds failure to receive its letters. She hadnt updated her 
address with the bank, and it was generally accepted that customers were 
responsible for keeping their bank up to date with changes in address. I didnt think it 
was likely the bank had asked her to pay £25 to change her address, as that would 
have been highly unusual and not something HSBC charges for generally.
Miss D had originally called the bank in late May 2020 about her problem. It had 
attempted to contact her several months later to obtain more information. It hadnt 
been able to get hold of her but it provided temporary refunds in August 2020. It 
didnt reverse the temporary refunds until April 2021 and it gave no warning before 
doing so. 
While HSBC had said Miss D wouldnt have received any warning letter it sent due to 
her not updating her address, I didnt think this excused it from making no attempt at 
all to contact her about reversing the refunds. Eight months had passed since it had 
refunded Miss D, which could have left the impression the refunds were permanent. 
And the refunds added up to a large amount overall, so it was very important that 
HSBC did all it could to alert Miss D to the fact it was going to debit her account. The 
bank had a phone number and an email address for Miss D, but didnt attempt to 
reach her on either. While it might not have been HSBCs usual process to email 
customers, this was an unusual situation and it should have done more.
Concluding in relation to the service HSBC had provided Miss D, I said that its handling of 
the chargeback process had been notable for its delays, not all of which could be excused by operational issues caused by the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. It had failed to 
communicate the important fact that it was going to reverse the refunds it had given Miss D. 
This compounded her shock and disappointment when the refunds were reversed, and gave 
her no time to prepare or make financial arrangements to mitigate the situation. I considered 
HSBC should pay an additional £150 compensation (making a total of £250) to reflect the 
impact of its errors, as well as refunding any fees or charges incurred on Miss Ds account 
as a result of the refunds being reversed, for a period of one month from the reversal of the 
refunds.
I invited both parties to the complaint to respond to my provisional decision. HSBC 
responded to say that it would agree to settle the complaint in line with the provisional 
decision. Miss D has not responded, and so the case has been returned to me to review 
once more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party to the complaint has provided any new evidence, comments or arguments for 
me to consider, so I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision as summarised above.
It follows that I find HSBC acted reasonably in, ultimately, not refunding Miss D for the 
disputed transactions made via E and P. However, I also find the service provided by HSBC 
around the chargeback process was very poor in places, especially when it came to 
communicating the reversal of the temporary refunds, which it had failed to communicate at 
all. To put things right, the bank will need to pay a total of £250 compensation (including 
what it had already offered to pay previously) and refund interest, fees and charges incurred 
on Miss Ds account for a period of one month from the reversal of the refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above (including the summary of my provisional decision 
contained in the What happened section), I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and order 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Miss D £250 compensation (made up of the £100 already offered and £150 
additional compensation).
Refund any fees and charges incurred on Miss Ds credit card account as a result of 
the refunds being reversed, for a period of one month from the reversal of the 
refunds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman