DRN-1661245
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Newcastle Building Society (Newcastle BS) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside their mortgage.
What happened 
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage through Newcastle BS in 1990. Their mortgage was for 
around £61,500. In 1995, a PPI policy was taken out in Mrs Fs name only, to cover their 
mortgage repayments. Mrs F completed a form by post to apply for PPI. The policy cost 
£22.43 per month for £350.48 of mortgage repayment cover. The policy covered Mrs F for 
accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per successful claim.
In 1998, Mr and Mrs F took out a further mortgage advance for £12,000, they didnt take PPI 
with it.
Mr and Mrs F later took out a number of further mortgage advances (see below). They 
amended their PPI policy, including to add cover for Mr F, so that they were covered for their 
increased mortgage repayments. They took PPI on the following further mortgage advances:
Year          Amount borrowed    Extra PPI premium               
2000          £10,700                       £20.48                         
2005          £28,000                       £32.04                         
2006          £12,000                       £7.39                           
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They said Newcastle 
BS came to their home and advised them to take out PPI alongside their borrowing. They 
said they didnt need it because they had savings of around £40,000 from inheritances. 
Mr and Mrs F also complained about the mis-sale of a 2008 policy alongside their mortgage. 
However, Newcastle BS has agreed to settle that complaint, so I dont need to consider that 
matter here.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the sale or amendment of the policies from 1995, 
2000, 2005, and 2006, Mr and Mrs Fs complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.Newcastle BS had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs M had to agree to 
take it.
1995 policy
Mr and Mrs F said that Newcastle BS advised them to take PPI and that they received home 
visits from Newcastle about their mortgages and insurances. Mr and Mrs F have produced a 
letter from Newcastle BS to them dated April 2004, referring to a home visit. So, I think 
Newcastle BS probably visited them at home shortly before that letter was sent. I cant know 
whether it visited them at home at any other time.
Ive looked carefully at the paperwork Mrs F signed to take out PPI in 1995. Newcastle BS 
says Mrs F was sent a leaflet in the post and responded to that and applied for PPI. Mr and 
Mrs F werent taking on any extra borrowing at the time, so it looks to me that this PPI 
application was dealt with separately, by post. I think it wouldve been clear to Mr and Mrs F 
from the paperwork and the fact that they had not taken out PPI with their mortgage in 1990, 
that they didnt have to have PPI.
So, when they agreed to take out PPI in 1995, I think it wouldve been clear that PPI was an 
optional and separate product and they didnt need to have it alongside their mortgage.
2000 policy amendment
Mr and Mrs F took out a further advance in 2000. Mr F was added to the PPI policy,  and the 
cover was split 50/50. Ive seen the paperwork from this sale. This made it clear that they 
didnt have to have PPI to get the additional borrowing. I also think it likely that they wouldve 
understood that there was no requirement for them to have PPI to get a further advance, 
because in 1998 they didnt take PPI with that further advance.
So, I cant see that Newcastle BS misled them into believing they had to have PPI to get the 
additional borrowing.
2005 and 2006 policy amendments
It seems Mr and Mrs F had been visited at home by Newcastle BS by the time they 
amended their policy to cover the additional mortgage payments arising from the 2005 and 
2006 further advances. But, again, looking at the paperwork, and the letter Mr and Mrs F 
were sent by Newcastle BS in 2004, I cant see anything to suggest that Newcastle BS 
misled them into believing that PPI was a necessary requirement. Rather, it seems to me, 
that it was made clear that PPI was optional. 
So, overall, I think it more likely that Newcastle BS made Mr and Mrs F aware that PPI was 
optional and they chose to amend their policy.
Did Newcastle BS advise Mr and Mrs F to take out PPI?
From what Ive seen, I dont think Newcastle BS recommended the 1995 policy to Mr and 
Mrs F. Nor, can I see that Newcastle BS advised Mr and Mrs F to increase their level of 
cover each time they took out a further advance. Ill say why.
1995 policy
Mrs F applied for PPI by post. I cant see that there was any adviser input. They werent 
taking out a further advance. It looks to me like this was all dealt with on the papers. Theres 
nothing amongst the paperwork to suggest they were advised to take PPI.2000, 2005 and 2006 amendments
Having looked carefully at the paperwork from the time of these sales, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr and Mrs F were advised to increase their repayment cover, 
or to add cover for Mr F, when they took out their further advances. And based on what 
theyve told me, I dont have enough to fairly conclude that they were visited by advisers on 
each of these occasions and given advice on top of what was set out in the papers.
So, I think it more likely that these werent advised sales. However, to avoid any doubt, even 
had these been advised sales, I wouldve still reached the same conclusion that these 
policies werent mis-sold. I say this because the PPI appeared suitable for their needs.
As Ive concluded that these werent advised sales, Newcastle BS didnt have to consider 
whether PPI was suitable for their needs. But, it did need to give them clear information 
about the PPI so they could decide whether they wanted to buy it. I cant see that PPI was 
inappropriate for them. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account both their 
circumstances, although initially only Mrs F was covered under the policy. I think the policy 
was appropriate for them because:
Both of them were eligible for the PPI  that is, they qualified to be covered by the 
insurance;
I cant see that they were affected by the main limitations or exclusions in the policy, 
so I dont think having better information about these things wouldve changed their 
decision to take out PPI as they couldve benefited from everything the policy offered;
Both Mr and Mrs F said they wouldve got some sick pay through their work, in both 
cases, six months worth at full pay and six months at half pay. The policy wouldve 
paid out on top of this, and for up to 12 months per successful claim.  The PPI policy 
wouldve allowed them to use their work benefits to meet their other household 
expenses at what mightve been a difficult time for them financially if one or both of 
them wasnt working. The policy would've also covered them if they lost their job 
involuntarily.
Mr and Mrs F said they had a substantial amount of savings (around £40,000) when 
they took out PPI in 1995. However, they wouldve known they had this. And at that 
point they werent taking out any further borrowing, so their decision to take out PPI 
appeared unconnected to any borrowing application. When they later amended the 
policy to add Mr F, and to increase the amount of cover, this was connected to a 
further advance application. But, even if Mr and Mrs F still had these savings, I think 
it likely that they wanted to hold on to them for some reason. I say this because they 
took out the further advances to carry out home improvements, rather than using 
their savings. Its also possible that these savings were no longer available in 2000, 
2005 and 2006. So, I cant see that Mr and Mrs Fs other resources made this policy 
unsuitable for them. 
I cant know exactly what Mr and Mrs F were told about the costs of the policy when 
they took it out or amended it. I can see from the paperwork they were given a 
general indication of the costs and benefits. PPI seemed affordable. Whilst its 
possible that they could have been given clearer information, I think Mr and Mrs F 
were given enough information to make an informed choice that the policy was right 
for them in their circumstances. Also, as this was a monthly paid policy, they couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.  So, I dont think they 
have lost out because of this.
 
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs F have said, but this doesnt change my 
view. I dont think theyve lost out because of any problems with the sale of the policy. so it 
follows that I dont uphold their complaint. 
my final decision
 
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman