DRN-2656614
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) increased the fee on his Premier 
account and reduced the benefits that the account came with. Specifically, Mr S is unhappy 
that the interest free portion of his overdraft facility was reduced. Mr S says he was assured 
during the sales process that these changes would never occur. He therefore thinks that his 
account was mis-sold.
Mr S has also explained that he did not receive the letters that Lloyds issued about the cost 
of his Premier account changing from £25 to £27.
What happened
One of our adjudicators have already investigated Mr Ss complaint and didnt think that 
Lloyds had treated him unfairly. 
They said that they did not find it likely that Mr S was told that the benefits and cost of the 
account would never change and that Lloyds were entitled to change the products it offered.  
And it was up to the account holders to decide if they still wished to keep the Premier 
account, once the changes had been made. They also said that they were satisfied that Mr S 
wouldve been informed of the changes, prior to them occurring.
Given this, the adjudicators didnt recommend that Lloyds should give Mr S any money back. 
Mr S didnt agree with these findings as he says he did not get the letters from Lloyds and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his case. 
So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Ss case.
Ive looked into everything that Mr S and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I note that Mr S says he was told that the overdraft benefit and cost of the account would 
never change. But I find it unlikely that a member of staff would say this, especially when the 
cost of the account and the benefits that it came with had changed frequently in the past. 
That said, if Mr S was told this, I would need to consider what he may have done differently 
had he been given the correct information. 
Mr S says he would not have taken out the account had he known that it was possible the 
overdraft benefit and cost of the account would change. But on balance I dont think that this 
would likely have been the case. After all, he seemed happy with the cost and benefits at the 
time of the sale. So I see little reason why he would not choose to agree to an account, just 
because it may change in the future. I say this especially as there was no tie in period, so he 
could freely choose not to have the account at any point if the benefits changed in a way he 
did not agree with. So overall, I do not think it is likely that Mr S was told that the overdraft 
benefit and cost of the account would remain the same. And even if he was told this, I dont 
think it wouldve altered his decision to take out the account.
As we have previously explained to Mr S, Lloyds is entitled to change the terms of the 
packaged bank accounts that it offers. Lloyds is allowed to make commercial decisions in 
relation to the price and benefits of these accounts, providing that it informs account holders 
prior to these changes occurring.
Mr S says he was aware of the account fee changing to from £27 to £28 and received the 
letter about the overdraft benefit changing. So I dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong in 
relation to these changes. 
Mr S has said that he was not informed about the change in account fee from £25 to £27 
which occurred in 2018. Conversely, Lloyds has provided template copies of the letter that it 
says it sent Mr S. And I am satisfied that this template wouldve been the same as the letter 
he was sent. Lloyds has provided its system records that it says shows that this letter was 
generated. So on balance, I think that it is more likely than not that this letter was issued by 
Lloyds. I say this especially as it seems Mr S did receive similar letters from Lloyds, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that this mailing wouldve been treated any differently compared to 
the other ones. So I think that Lloyds did enough to inform Mr S about the increase in the 
account fee.
Overall, I am unable to tell Lloyds what products it should offer its customers. And I am 
satisfied that Lloyds did enough to make Mr S aware of the changes prior to them occurring. 
Therefore, on balance, I think Lloyds has done what it needs to do in this regard. Given this, 
I am unable to uphold this complaint as I cant see that Lloyds did anything wrong that 
detrimentally affected Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman