DRN-2328630
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) acted irresponsibly when it granted 
him a credit a card account with a credit limit of £500 and again when it increased his credit 
limit to £1,250.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr H applied for a credit card account with Vanquis. In his application, Mr H 
said he was employed with an income of £29,854. 
Vanquis completed a credit search and assessed the information this returned. It approved 
Mr Hs application with a credit limit of £500.
In November 2017 Vanquis wrote to Mr H to say this it was planning to increase his credit 
limit to £1,250 and if he didnt want the increase he could reject it within 30 days.
In December 2018, and having not heard from Mr H, Vanquis increased Mr Hs credit limit to 
£1,250.
In April 2018 Mr H started to incur over limit charges for going over his credit limit of £1,250.
In August 2018 Mr H started to incur late payment charges for failing to make payment to his 
account.
Following the above Vanquis issued Mr H with a default notice in respect of his account and 
registered the same with various credit reference agencies. 
In August 2019 Mr H complained to Vanquis that it had acted irresponsibly in granting him 
the account in March 2017 and in increasing his credit limit in December 2017. He said that 
on both occasions Vanquis didnt do enough to check his financial situation.
In September 2019 Vanquis sold the account debt onto a third party.
Vanquis didnt agree it had acted irresponsibly in either approving Mr Hs application or in 
increasing his credit limit. It said it used the information Mr H had provided before approving 
the account and completed the necessary checks to ensure the credit was affordable before 
approving the account and the credit limit increase.
Unhappy with the response from Vanquis, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. An
investigator looked into the matter. She found that Vanquis had acted responsibly in 
approving the account (with a credit limit of £500) but not in granting the credit limit increase. 
Vanquis agreed with the investigators view but Mr H didnt. Therefore the complaint has 
been passed to me for review and decision.
Prior to Mr Hs complaint being decided by me, Vanquis provided our service with Mr Hs 
account statements. These showed that prior to the increase in Mr Hs credit limit he 
incurred interest of £97.76 and after the increase he incurred interest and charges of 
£479.46. Vanquis also confirmed that it had reacquired Mr Hs debt from the third party it had 
sold it to and that it was prepared to reduce this debt, now it was back with it, by £479.46.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also add that Im only considering in this decision Mr Hs complaint that Vanquis 
acted irresponsibly when it granted him a credit a card account with a credit limit of £500 and 
again when it increased his credit limit to £1,250 and not any other concerns he might, or 
might not, have about the management and administration of his account by Vanquis.
the initial approval of the account with a credit limit of £500
When lenders look at any application to borrow money, they need to make sure there are
proportionate checks in place. The checks should ensure that any credit thats approved is
affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender must
complete and its up to each business to decide how it wants to approach assessing
applications. But I think its fair to expect them to consider the information provided to them 
in the application by the borrower, a review of their credit history and any other information it
may already know about that person. So, what I need to consider is whether I think the 
checks completed by Vanquis were reasonable based on the credit it provided.
Mr H says Vanquis  should have asked for and checked salary slips in support of his 
declared income and sought proof of his employment from his employer. But the fact that it 
didnt doesnt mean it has been irresponsible  in some circumstances it wont be 
unreasonable for a lender to rely on information it has been given on an application when 
deciding if credit should be provided. This is especially in circumstances  such as in this 
case  where the consumer is lent a relatively small amount and it needs to be repaid within 
a reasonable period of time rather than all in one go. It should also be noted that Mr H isnt 
saying that he wasnt, at the material time, earning the £29,854 he declared he was. So Im 
not persuaded that Vanquis has done anything wrong here.
Vanquis completed a credit search on Mr H and it has provided our service with the results 
of this search for me to review. These search results, in summary, show that Mr H had six 
small active credit commitments with no arrears, no county court judgements and no defaults 
younger than 16 months old.Now having reviewed these search results, and given the income Mr H says he was earning 
in March 2017, Im satisfied that the granting of the account (with a relatively low credit limit)
wasnt irresponsible as the information indicates that it wasnt unreasonable to expect Mr H 
to be able to make payments to clear the balance within a reasonable period of time.
The decision on whether to provide credit to an individual is ultimately down to the lender
and the fact that Mr H may have had some historical payment issues doesnt necessarily
mean he shouldnt have been considered for the account, where the information to hand
suggested hed be able to make the necessary payments.
Vanquis has shown that it followed a process to see if Mr H met its lending criteria for the 
credit and Im satisfied that these checks were proportionate, based on the amount of credit 
being granted and that the lending was done responsibly. 
the increase in the credit limit to £1,250
Vanquis, having considered the investigators view, accepts that it possibly didnt act 
responsibly in increasing Mr Hs credit limit by £750 to £1,250 in December 2018. So other 
than saying I agree this increase wasnt responsible, I make no further comment or finding 
on this particular point.
Putting things right
Given what I say above what I now need to decide is what Vanquis should have to do, if 
anything, to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr H.
Had Vanquis not increased Mr Hs credit limit he wouldnt have been able to make the 
purchases that he did following this credit limit increase taking effect. He also wouldnt have 
incurred the interest and charges these purchases attracted.
Now its my understanding, in respect of the credit limit increase, that Mr H would like any 
debt he incurred following the same to be written off. Now I understand why Mr H might hold 
such a view, but equally I cant ignore the fact that he has had the benefit of the purchases 
made. So, taking everything into account, I think the fairest outcome is for Vanquis to write 
off any interest and charges Mr Hs purchases attracted but not the capital cost of those 
purchases, something it has already agreed to do.
I can see that the investigator suggested that Vanquis should pay Mr H interest on the above 
write off and that his credit file record be amended to show a credit limit on the account of 
£500. 
However, Im satisfied that no interest needs to be paid because Mr Hs account will not be 
returned to a credit balance after its reduced by the interest and charges incurred post credit 
limit increase. I also see no benefit to Mr H in directing Vanquis to reduce the credit limit 
recorded with credit reference agencies to £500 from £1,250. Indeed, it could be said that in 
making no reduction returns a benefit to Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited must:
having reacquired Mr Hs debt, reduce it by £479.46 as it has already agreed to do
pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused himUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman