DRN-2666585
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was mis-sold life cover by Standard Life Assurance, referred to 
as the business.
She says she was led to believe the policy was a condition of the mortgage.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 23 February 2021, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss M says, Im unable to safely
say that the recommendation was unsuitable.
But before I explain further why this is the case, think its important for me to note I recognise
Miss Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
A decreasing term assurance policy  that matches the (repayment) mortgage amount and
term  and goes down in line with the mortgage amount is generally considered suitable.
However, sometimes consumers choose to have the same level of cover throughout the
term of the policy for the additional cover and/or because the cost difference is so small that
it makes sense to go for the level term assurance.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) Miss M was
happy with the recommendation to provide the same level of cover for the term of the policy,
(primarily) protecting her mortgage but also providing extra cover in time.
Although its difficult to pinpoint any single piece of evidence from the point of sale that
confirms this, its Miss Ms subsequent behaviour  which Ill consider below  that suggests
that this policy wasnt something that she didnt want or understand.
Its possible that Miss M was advised to take out the policy in 1991  when the premiums
probably wouldve been cheaper  in light of future changes to her circumstances and not
solely because of her mortgage - which was obviously a key reason.
It might be that the adviser advised her to take cover, and did so in strong terms, but that
doesnt mean he told her it was a condition of the mortgage.
I note, that in May 2006  15 years after the policy was take our and 10 years before the
policy was due to end  Miss M asked if she could increase her cover and term, even though
she had paid off her mortgage. And despite the business not being able to do so, Miss M
continued with the policy. Notwithstanding what the investigator says, I dont think she
wouldve decided to keep the policy and asked to extend it, if she didnt want the policy in the
first place or had no choice but to have the policy that she just didnt want.
At no point did Miss M say that she was sold the policy she didnt want in 1991, but now that
her situation is materially different shes minded to keep it. Instead, she simply refers to her
decision to continue with the policy and enquiry if she can extend and increase it.
I note in an email to our service dated October 2020 Miss M said:
I understood that I was covered for my life, by the policy. So, as I said in the attached letter,
7/5/06, I wanted to continue with it.
This is all part of my complaint, with the policy, which I was told I must have. Clearly, I was
hoping to keep it going. It did not occur to me, that I had bought something that would end,
while I was alive. This was not explained to me at all
This would suggest Miss Ms complaint is different to what it initially was. If she didnt need
or want cover  because she had no dependents  its not clear why shed then be unhappy
that she didnt have cover for life.
The policy schedule and documentation made very clear that this policy was for a term of 25
years, and in 2015 she was written to again to say that her policy was about to end but made
no complaint. Im mindful that the business has consented to us considering the merits of
this complaint, but the fact she didnt complain at that time doesnt suggest she was unaware
that the policy was only for a specified term.
I also note that in a subsequent email dated November 2020, Miss M said:
I was under the impression that the policy was for the whole of my life, therefore I could not
cancel it, when I had paid off my mortgage. Nothing was made clear to me when they sold
the policy. I had hoped to be able to leave some money to someone when I died, if nothing
else.
However, if Miss M believed the policy was for life, and thats why she didnt think she could
cancel it after paying her mortgage off in January 2005, it begs the question why she asked
the business if the term could be extended. It seems to me her request to extend the term
makes it clear she was aware the policy wasnt for the whole of her life.
This email, which is from last year, also suggests that even though Miss M had no
dependents shed hoped to leave some money to someone  possibly her parents, family
member(s) or even a friend. This policy wouldve enabled to her to leave her property 
mortgage free  to whomever she chose if she died within the term of the policy. This
doesnt suggest that the policy had no use for her.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that her circumstances in 2006 were significantly different than
in 1991. On balance I think its more likely (than not) Miss M wanted the policy in the longer
term  for her mortgage but also general protection  and probably discussed this with her
adviser at the point of sale.So, in the circumstances, despite what she now says, Im unable to safely say that Miss M
didnt want a level term policy, despite her mortgage going down (and eventually being paid
off) in anticipation of future changes to her circumstances or just wanting to leave her
money/property to someone. Whether or not she did in fact go on to have a partner or a
family is immaterial.
As Ive mentioned, I appreciate theres limited evidence from the point of sale, but
businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so I cant blame the business for
not having more information about a sale that took place over 30 years ago. I still have to
make my decision on the basis of what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
I note that Miss M continued to pay for the policy even after the mortgage was repaid early,
and the business made clear that it wasnt possible to increase the amount of cover or term,
which doesnt suggest that she didnt want the cover, or was led to believe that she had to
have it.
If the latter was correct, Miss M probably shouldve complained when she paid off her
mortgage or at the latest when the policy ended, but she didnt complain at all. Im mindful
this complaint started off life as a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) complaint  a very
different type of insurance  and even though the business has made clear that she didnt
have PPI, shes still pursued the complaint.
I appreciate Miss M says that she didnt know the policy would cost her £3,603 over the term
of 25 years, but I dont think it wouldve been difficult to calculate this amount given that she
had a fixed monthly premium.
Im mindful of Miss Ms comments, but I cant agree that she was only recommended the
policy because the adviser was after the big fees.
Im also mindful that Miss M says she was told she couldnt get the mortgage without the
policy, but despite what she says, Ive seen no evidence that this was the case. The
business has confirmed that the policy wasnt a condition of the mortgage. I also note that
Miss M signed documentation to say that she understood she wasnt under an obligation to
follow the business recommendation and could go elsewhere.
I appreciate Miss M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her
what she wants.
The business responded but had no further points to add.
 
Miss M also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In short, she made the 
following points:
She can only tell the truth about what happened at the point of sale. In other words, 
she was told she had to have the policy in order to get the mortgage. 
Where is the evidence that this wasnt the case? 
Why does her word not count against these large financial businesses? 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Despite Miss Ms response, I dont consider that any new points have been raised and the 
key points remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision 
therefore I still dont think the recommendation was unsuitable for Miss M or that she was 
told she had to have the policy in order to secure her mortgage.    
Im not suggesting that Miss M isnt telling the truth or that her word doesnt count against 
the business. Its just that on a balance of probabilities  in other words, whats more likely 
than not to have happened  Im unable to safely say that she was told the policy was a 
condition of the mortgage. 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, although its difficult to pinpoint any single piece of 
evidence from the point of sale that confirms this, its Miss Ms subsequent behaviour  that 
suggests to me that on balance, this policy wasnt something that she didnt want or 
understand.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman