DRN-3600909
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy Sainsburys Bank Plc sold her a credit card on the basis she could make 
her repayments in cash over bank counters, but nowhere will accept them. 
What happened
Miss C has found that many banks wont accept bank giro credits, or they charge a fee. She 
says she was not told this when she opened her card. So it was mis-sold to her.
Sainsburys Bank explained acceptance is at the discretion of the bank and it cannot control 
this - but it still takes bank giro credits as a method of payment. It had initially told Miss C 
that it no longer accepted bank giro credit but later clarified this was an error. 
It offered Miss C £100 compensation for any inconvenience caused. She wants more saying 
her card statements still show bank giro credits as a way to pay. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Cs complaint. He said that Miss C was given an 
inaccurate response when she initially complained, but that Sainsburys Bank do still accept 
credit card payments by bank giro credit, so it is reasonable to list it as a method of payment. 
He explained that if a bank or building society branch opts not to accept them that is its right, 
and policy, and Sainsburys Bank cant control this. She felt the £100 that Sainsburys had 
credited to Miss Cs account was fair. 
Miss C disagreed with this assessment. She asked Sainsburys Bank to provide a list of 
branches that accept this method of payment. Our investigator explained this would be held 
by the banks, not Sainsburys Bank. He also suggested Miss C could set Sainsburys Bank 
up as a payee from her own bank account and then pay cash into her own branch to 
facilitate the payment using cash. Miss C acknowledged there were other way to pay but still 
believes she was mis-sold the card. She wants the wording amended on the statement to 
say the service will be offered at the discretion of each branch and may change. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Whilst I dont disagree with Miss C that it wasnt ideal she had to discover not all bank 
branches accept bank giro credits in this way, I dont think Sainsburys Bank has made an 
error as it does still accept payment by bank giro credit. And I think the £100 she has 
received is fair recognition of the inconvenience she has suffered. 
She has asked that Sainsburys Bank amend the wording about paying in a bank on its 
statements. Whilst I dont think her suggestion is unreasonable, or without merit, I do not 
have the power to instruct it do this. It is the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct 
Authority) to review an organisations policies, processes and systems. Our role is to review 
individual complaints, to see if the bank has made an error and decide what it should do to 
put things right for that individual customer.
I would add that the payment methods offered do not form part of the terms and conditions 
of Miss Cs account: what the lender offers is a policy decision and it can alter this. As our 
investigator explained if a fee is charged at a bank counter that is not within the control of 
Sainsburys Bank, and not a term of its credit card agreement.
It follows I am not instructing Sainsburys Bank to take any further action.   
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman