DRN-3705564
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
In bringing his complaint to this service, Mr K is represented by solicitors. For ease Ill refer 
to Mr K in my decision. 
What happened
The events that unfolded in this case are well known to the parties, so I dont intend to detail 
them again here in full. Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons for my decision  our rules 
allow me to do so.
After watching a daytime show that talked about cryptocurrency, Mr K says he searched for 
investments online. He told us he came across a trading company. He says he looked at its 
website and thought it was professional. 
Mr K proceeded to set up an account with the trading company and was assigned an 
account manager. Unbeknown to Mr K at the time he was in contact with a fraudster. Mr K 
then set up an account with a cryptocurrency platform (which Ill refer to as B).   
Between 23 November 2020 and 6 January 2021, Mr K sent three payments from his 
Santander account to an account with B which was held in his name. From there Mr K 
converted the funds into cryptocurrency and sent it on to the fraudsters wallet. 
Mr K says he asked to make a withdrawal and successfully withdrew £130. He invested 
further and said he could see he was making substantial profits. So, he asked to make more 
withdrawals. Mr K told us he asked on several occasions but these were declined by the 
company  for example, Mr K told us his withdrawal request in December 2020 was 
cancelled by the fraudster as he was told hed not invested enough money to be able to 
make a withdrawal. 
Mr K then made another withdrawal request in January 2021, at which point he was told hed 
need to pay a tax payment. Mr K explains he became concerned regarding who he was 
asked to make the tax payment to  as this was not the trading company. His account was 
then frozen, and Mr K told us he could no longer access it. It was then he realised hed been 
the victim of a scam. 
Mr K contacted Santander on 1 February 2021, to report the scam. However, Santander 
held Mr K responsible for his loss. 
Mr K complained to Santander in August 2021 and it issued its final response letter on 
1 September 2021. It said it had reviewed Mr Ks claim as part of the Authorised Push 
Payment Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) and, reiterated its position that 
it wasnt liable for Mr Ks loss. Santander contacted the receiving bank (the account that 
received Mr Ks funds) but said unfortunately no funds remained. 
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In summary, she said the 
CRM Code didnt apply to the payments Mr K had made as part of the scam because they 
went to an account in his own name with B. She didnt consider the first two payments Mr K 
made to be remarkable enough that the bank ought to have intervened before processing 
them. And while she noted the third payment was higher in value, she also didnt think this 
payment warranted intervention from the bank. For completeness, I note our Investigator 
made reference to £25 being refunded to Mr K as a gesture of goodwill by the bank. 
However, this was incorrect information. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In his 
appeal he maintained that Santander ought to have asked questions about the payments he 
was asking to make. That the payments were made to a cryptocurrency platform and all 
payments made should have flagged for review. Had the bank asked questions Mr K 
believes the scam wouldve been prevented. 
Having considered the further points raised by Mr K, our Investigators opinion remained 
unchanged. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Santander have 
recognised the payments Mr K made as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done 
so, would it have made a difference to what happened. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Ive first considered whether Mr K is entitled to a refund under the CRM Code. Santander is 
a signatory to the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been 
the victims of Authorised Push Payments (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. But in this particular case, Im afraid the CRM code doesnt apply. I say this 
because, the CRM code refers to APP where the transfer of funds is transferred to another 
person. In this case, Mr K transferred money from his Santander account to another account 
in his name with B. This means Santander isnt required to consider his complaint under the 
CRM Code as Mr K didnt transfer his funds to another person but to another account in his 
name. 
So, Ive gone on to think about whether Santander could have done anything else to prevent 
the scam, bearing in mind good industry practice at the time and considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. But I 
am also mindful that when Mr K made the payments, Santander should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And there are 
circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, I cant safely say it acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made. And Im not persuaded Santander 
should reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss. I say this because, overall, I 
dont think the payments Mr K made were remarkable enough to have caused Santander 
concern.
In thinking about whether the payments Mr K made were out of character and unusual I have 
reviewed the typical pattern of Mr Ks account usage prior to the scam. This is often a finely 
balanced matter, and Santander has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its 
systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than 
usual risk of fraud. Having reviewed Mr Ks account movements from February 2020 up until 
the scam payments, Im not persuaded the payments he made ought to have flagged with 
Santander. Ill explain why. 
On 23 November 2020, Mr K set up a new payee to B and made an initial payment for £25. 
Given the low value of this payment, I dont think this ought to have been suspicious or 
caused Santander concern. Mr K then made a second payment for £1,975 the same day to 
B. While the payment was larger than the first payment of £25, I dont find the second 
payment ought to have triggered the banks security systems. I can see Mr K had previously 
made payments from his account for amounts not too dissimilar to the payment of £1,975. 
And while the previous payment had been made to an existing payee, I dont think 
Santander ought to have considered the setting up of a new payee, in and of itself, to be an 
indication of fraud that required its intervention. I further dont find the value of the payment 
to be so remarkable that it ought to have been concerning to Santander. 
Mr K made a third and final payment to B on 6 January 2021, over a month after the initial 
two payments to B. While I note this payment was higher in amount than the previous two 
payments, at this point, the payment was being made to an existing payee on Mr Ks 
account. Given the time between the previous payments and the payment on 
6 January 2021, I dont think this payment ought to have flagged with Santander. In this 
case, given the time between the payments to B, there wasnt a pattern emerging which 
ought to have been an indicator of fraud. There was an incoming payment into the account 
but after the payment was made, Mr Ks account balance was consistent with what it was 
previously, so I dont think there was anything to indicate that he was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. 
When carefully considering all three payments Mr K made as part of the scam, I cant say 
there was anything here that I think ought to have put Santander on notice that Mr K might 
be at risk of financial harm. I say this because, I dont find there was a pattern emerging. The 
third payment was made over a month after the first and second payments. And at this point, 
the payee would have been an existing payee on Mr Ks account. So even though the value 
of the third payment was higher than previous payments, I dont find it so remarkable in 
amount that, in the absence of any other indicators of fraud, Santander ought to have cause 
for concern to the extent that I would have expected it to have intervened and asked Mr K 
questions before processing it. Mr K says that all the payments should have flagged with Santander because they were 
made to a cryptocurrency platform. I accept that firms like Santander have been aware of the 
risk of cryptocurrency trading for some time and that it should be alive to the risk of scams 
associated with cryptocurrency. But that doesnt mean that it should question its customers 
about every transaction to a cryptocurrency provider. Instead, it should do so where it 
identifies a transaction that is otherwise out of character and unusual for that particular 
customer. And for the reasons Ive said above, I dont think Santander missed an 
opportunity to identify a potential scam risk.
All in all, I dont think there is enough here for me to say Santander should have suspected 
Mr K might be the victim of a potential scam at the time he made the payments. As the funds 
went to Mr Ks own account with B and then on from there, there was little opportunity for 
Santander to recover those funds. 
Im mindful the funds Mr K used to invest originated from a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). The 
purpose of the BBL scheme was to provide businesses with quick access to urgent financial 
support. While I recognise Mr K has told us he didnt intend to use the BBL funds to invest, 
Im afraid this doesnt take away from the fact that he did. So, Mr K is responsible for any 
amount he has to pay back. 
I know this outcome will be disappointing for Mr K, but I hope hell understand my reasons 
for reaching it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman