DRN-3628500
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy in relation to a dispute with a credit card company. 
What happened
Mr T has a legal expenses policy with Aviva. In December 2021 he made a claim relating to 
a dispute with a credit card company. Aviva referred the claim to panel solicitors to see if it 
had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). They advised in mid-
January it didnt and explained why that was. 
Aviva didnt pass that information on to Mr T until late April despite him chasing for updates 
in the subsequent months and advising he had a case management discussion scheduled 
for mid April. At that the case was unsuccessful. Mr T said that was because Aviva hadnt 
provided him with legal advice. 
In response to the complaint Mr T made Aviva accepted it should have provided the 
assessment much earlier and hadnt properly responded to emails Mr T sent. But, as the 
assessment was negative, it wouldnt have provided him with assistance with his legal case. 
However, in recognition of the impact on him of poor customer service it agreed to pay £300. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr T didnt agree. He thought once the documents 
he provided had been reviewed by the panel solicitors he should have been given advice 
about the next steps with his case. And, if that had been done, hed have taken different 
decisions in relation to it. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Ts policy does provide cover for costs and expenses relating to a dispute about an 
agreement for the purchase of goods or services. But cover is subject to the other terms and 
conditions of the policy. That includes a requirement for a claim to have reasonable 
prospects of success. And the definition of that includes it is more likely than not that you 
will recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to. The policy 
also says a claim needs to be proportionate to pursue. 
In this case Aviva referred Mr Ts claim to panel solicitors for a legal assessment of those 
issues which is what Id expect them to do. And their opinion was the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success and wasnt proportionate to pursue. I think that opinion is 
properly written and reasoned and from someone qualified to give it. And after it was 
provided to Mr T he didnt provide a contrary legal opinion in response. So I dont think there 
was any reason why Aviva shouldnt have relied on that legal assessment. 
Where there has been a failing by Aviva is that it didnt tell Mr T about that opinion when it 
was received. Thats despite him sending a number of emails asking for an update on his 
case. I think it should have told him what the outcome of the assessment was soon after it 
had been received.
Mr T says because it didnt he missed out on the opportunity to discuss his case and receive 
advice from the panel solicitors. I dont agree with him on that. The policy does offer the 
services of a legal helpline which can provide general legal advice. But if Mr T wanted help 
to pursue this specific claim it would need to meet the requirements of his policy. Because 
his case was assessed as not having reasonable prospects of success (or being 
proportionate to pursue) that wasnt the case. 
I appreciate if Mr T had been provided with the prospects assessment when he should have 
been hed have known that earlier but it doesnt change the fact Aviva wouldnt have funded 
his claim (including providing advice from the panel firm). And Mr T was never told funding 
had been agreed. So thats something hed have known in the approach to the case 
management discussion and could therefore have sought his own legal advice if he felt that 
was required. 
Nevertheless, I do appreciate it will have been frustrating for Mr T that the prospects 
assessment was only provided to him in April 2022 when it was sent to Aviva in January. 
And I accept there were a number of missed opportunities for Aviva to provide this to him in 
response to the emails he sent to it. However, I think the £300 it has already agreed to pay 
does enough to recognise the impact on him of what it got wrong in this case. 
My final decision
I think the offer of £300 Aviva Insurance Limited has made to recognise the impact on Mr T 
of its customer service failings is fair. So it will need to pay Mr T £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman