DRN-1544510
The complaint
Ms A has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying Advance 
account, which was sold to her on 1 June 2010. Ms A says that the Advance account was 
presented as being the only option available to her and she was not given the option of a 
free account. She says she wasnt made aware of the features of the account and didnt 
need them.
 
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Advance account had 
been mis-sold. 
Ms A disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. This 
decision will only be looking at whether the Advance account had been mis-sold. I note that 
Ms A has mentioned concerns that she has in relation to financial difficulties and overdraft 
charges. If Ms A is still unhappy in relation to this, she would need to direct her concerns to 
HSBC in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
packaged bank account was mis-sold to Ms A. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Ms A, but Id like to assure her that I have considered everything she has provided and said.
I think it would be helpful to explain, that where matters are either unclear or in dispute, as 
they are here, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the 
evidence that is available. This includes the evidence that both parties have provided. 
Ive started by considering whether or not Ms A was given a fair choice in opening her 
account. I can see that Ms A had held a fee free account for a number of years prior to 
taking out the Advance account. So I think that she would have been aware that free 
accounts existed and were an option for her. I also can see that Ms A was given the account 
for free for the first 12 months, so I think that its likely she agreed to the account due to this, 
rather than because she thought that she had no option.
 
In addition to the above, I can see that Ms A proactively called HSBC to take advantage of a 
six-month half-fee option, once the free period ended. If Ms A did not want the account, I 
think that she wouldve instead asked to downgrade the account rather than ask for the six-
month half-fee option. Ms A has also said that she was told she had to upgrade to keep her 
overdraft facility. But she had held an overdraft for a number of years whilst having a fee-free 
account. So I dont think its likely that she would suddenly believe that it was not an option 
for her. So overall I think that Ms A had a fair choice to take out the account and she chose 
to do so.
I think its likely that the account was sold to Ms A on a non-advised basis. This means 
HSBC didnt have to check if the account was right for Ms A. But it was still required to give 
her important information about the account, so that she could decide for herself whether to 
open an Advance account. 
Its not clear what exactly was discussed with Ms A during the sale. But I think its likely that 
HSBC, in trying to make the packaged account seem attractive to Ms A, wouldve at least 
explained what the main benefits of the account were. So, I think HSBC gave Ms A some 
information about the Advance account when it was sold to her. One of the benefits the 
account provided was fee-free cash withdrawals abroad and travel insurance. And there is 
evidence Ms A went for a trip shortly after she opened her account and I can see that she 
claimed on the travel insurance. So I think its possible that Ms A might have agreed to the 
account for the travel benefits it provided, especially as she was offered the account for free 
for the first year of taking it out.
I cant be sure if HSBC gave Ms A all of the important information about the account during 
the sales process. But equally, Ive not seen anything about her circumstances at the time of 
the sale that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she been 
given better information.
 
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Ms A may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money and regrets opening a fee-paying account. But overall Ive 
not seen enough for me to say that she was mis-sold the Advance account. I therefore think 
it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the fees Ms A has paid for the account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman