DRN-4069029
The complaint
Mr U complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (who Ill call BMF) has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMF, but I think this car hasnt been of satisfactory quality and I think 
they need to take some action to put things right for Mr U. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr U acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price, and all the other relevant circumstances. It says that 
when we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory quality, we should also consider if 
it has been durable.
In a case like this, which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr U. The car here was 
over six years old when it was supplied, and it had already completed about 69,000 miles. 
So, I think its likely it was not in a perfect condition, as would perhaps be the case with a 
brand new car. 
Ive reviewed the reports provided by Mr U and the independent comments provided by the 
engineer BMF commissioned. It seems that all agree the engine is damaged because the 
timing belt has failed. The timing belt was changed on this car in April 2020, 20 months 
before Mr U took receipt of the it. Theres no suggestion that the car hasnt been looked after 
properly, and Mr U has provided evidence to demonstrate the vehicle has been serviced in 
line with the manufacturers recommendation.
The manufacturer recommends changing the timing belt every five years and I think that 
suggests the timing belt should last at least that long before needing any attention. As this 
belt has failed way before the recommended maintenance period I think it, and the car, 
hasnt been durable, and that the car has therefore been of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair the car but here I think 
that would be unreasonable. I say that because I can see the car needs a new engine and 
that repair would be very expensive; and because Mr U has been kept waiting for close to a 
year to have the issue resolved, and also because Mr U has been inconvenienced by those 
issues. I think the fairest resolution would be to now allow Mr U to reject the car.
BMF will need to collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr U, end the finance agreement and 
refund any deposit or part exchange thats been paid; adding interest as Mr U has been 
deprived of that money.
Mr U hasnt been able to use the car since July 2022 so its not fair for him to be paying for it 
during that time. BMF should refund any instalments hes paid since then and waive any 
instalments that were due but havent been paid. However, it appears that Mr U had 
reasonable use of the car before July 2022 so its only fair BMF are allowed to keep 
instalments paid before that date.
Mr U has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes explained that he hasnt been able to 
transport his children or grandparents and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances I think BMF should pay 
him £200 in compensation.
There have been costs incurred by Mr U as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory 
quality. Hes had to pay £220 for diagnostic reports and BMF will need to refund those costs, 
with interest as Mr U has been deprived of that money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr U to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr U.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments that Mr U has paid from, and including, July 2022. 
Waive any that were due but havent been paid for that period and add 8% simple 
interest per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of Mr Us diagnostic reports totalling £220 and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr U £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Us credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman