DRN-3633068
The complaint
Miss B and Mr E complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the 
claim they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
Act) in relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the 
supplier.
Miss B and Mr E are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2015, Miss B and Mr E were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Miss B and Mr E decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In February 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss B and Mr Es behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Miss B and Mr E to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Miss B and Mr E or that 
there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss B and Mr E and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the sales documentation provided by P was confusing and misleading, with negative 
figures in small font and positive figures large and highlighted, and with too much 
technical information which the average consumer would find difficult to follow;
in particular, one of the tables implied that Miss B and Mr E would save £34,148.41 
over a period of 20 years;
lots of other consumers have made similar complaints;
none of the CMCs clients had bought solar panels for environmental reasons but 
because they had expected to make a profit.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Miss B and Mr E paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss B and Mr E could claim 
against Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss B 
and Mr E and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss B and Mr E say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Miss B and Mr Es testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Miss B and Mr E, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr E has signed it on page 23.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Miss B and Mr Es version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
I do not agree that the quote is confusing, misleading or unclear; I will elaborate on this 
below.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Miss B and Mr E have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Miss B and Mr Es recollections of 
their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss B and Mr E could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss B and Mr E could expect to receive a 
total FIT income in year one of £505.77, which results in an average monthly income of 
£42.15. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £108.07. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Miss B and Mr E were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss B and Mr E could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are £335.98 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Miss B and Mr E, the combined income and savings 
in year one is shown as £958.42. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss B and Mr E entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £108.07. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £109.85, but the difference  £1.78  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first six years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to 
make enough money to cover the loan payments until year seven. I think this information is 
clear and conspicuous; it is not hidden away where it is likely to be overlooked, or buried 
amidst irrelevant information. It is in a table which is highlighted in orange, the other tables 
being plain.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss B and Mr E could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT 
income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would 
not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my 
finding above that Miss B and Mr E werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the 
loan repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Miss B and Mr Es version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Miss B and Mr E that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.78 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). On balance Im also satisfied that the salesperson 
referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments, making a shortfall for the first six years.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Miss B and Mr E were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in a very large font that it would take nine years for 
the overall benefits that Miss B and Mr E could expect to receive to match the cash price of 
the system. Directly underneath that it says that this timescale relates to the cash price.
I think the nine-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section, next to two other figures which expressly exclude the cost 
of the finance. So I think it would have been clear that the nine-year payback time refers to 
the cash price, not the cost of the finance. Of course, the interest on the loan would extend 
the payback time.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year nine the overall benefits that Miss B and Mr E 
could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £10,114. (To save space 
I have only shown the rows for years 1, 8 and 9.)
The same table also shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£19,773, would be reached by the end of year 15 (although that amount is not shown in the 
quote but only in the loan agreement).
This is the table which the CMC referred to in its response to the adjudicators opinion. At the 
bottom is a row showing the total figures for each column. The column third from the right, 
headed Acc. grand total (short for accumulated grand total), gives the total of £34,148.41 
after 20 years.
I think it is clear that this figure is the gross FIT income and savings; it does not purport to be 
net of the purchase price or of the total amount repayable under the loan. As I have set out 
above, Im satisfied that P told Miss B and Mr E that the system would pay for its cash price 
in 9 years, and for the loan in about 15 years, as supported by the Key Facts graphic and 
by the table above, which were both included in the quote. In the table, this equates to the 
year in which the figure in the Acc. grand total column first exceeds the cash price or (as 
the case may be) the total amount repayable.
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced Miss B 
and Mr E to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, then that could 
amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system 
and whether this is in line with the contract they had with P.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,296 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Miss B and Mr Es FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 3,405 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Miss B and Mr E have not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Miss B and Mr E havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss B and Mr E could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss B and Mr E entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss B and 
Mr E to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman