DRN-1778157
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has declined a 
claim under their commercial insurance policy.
Mr R and Mrs R are represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr R and Mrs 
R.
What happened
When Mr R opened a window in a rental property he and Mrs R owned, the hinge failed and 
the double glazing unit fell to the ground, damaging it. So, Mr R and Mrs R made an 
insurance claim.
Ageas turned down the claim because it said the window fell out due to a failure of the hinge. 
It said that this wasnt covered by the policy, which excluded damage for wear and tear.
When Mr R and Mrs R complained to Ageas, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
So, Mr R and Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said he thought it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down the claim on the basis of wear 
and tear.
As Mr R and Mrs R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr R and Mrs R have said that they think the damage to the window should be accepted as 
accidental damage under the terms of their policy. Ive looked at the policy wording. This 
said:
But we will not indemnify You for  Damage caused by or consisting of 
a. inherent vice latent defect gradual deterioration change in water table level frost wear 
and tear faulty or defective design or materials.
Ageas has said that the damage was caused by wear and tear to the hinge, which was 
excluded under the policy. Mr R and Mrs R have said that although the hinge failed, the 
damage was caused by the window hitting the ground and that the hinge is not an integral 
part of the window, as it can be replaced separately.
Thinking about whether the hinge was an integral part of the window, I think it was. The 
window was one that was designed to open. In order for it to open, it needed a mechanism 
to do so. In this instance, that was a hinge. Mr R tried to open the window and he therefore 
needed the hinge to operate in order for him to be able to do so. So, I dont accept that the 
hinge wasnt an integral part of the window even if, as Mr R and Mrs R have argued, the 
hinge could be replaced separately. The hinge failed, which caused the window to fall to the 
ground.
Ageas has said that it considered damage to a hinge to be wear and tear, which was 
excluded under the policy. I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to reach the 
conclusion that this was the most likely cause of the damage given the circumstances of this 
case. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest that the damage to the hinge was caused 
by anything other than wear and tear. So, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down 
the claim on that basis and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman