DRN-3772001
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr A had a credit card from Nationwide. The limit was £6,000. He drew the balance down 
with a series of balance transfers in June 2020. His income was affected by the pandemic 
and Nationwide agreed to a payment holiday under the  pandemic support scheme until 30 
September 2020. After that, Mr A missed several monthly payments. On 3 March 2021, 
Nationwide sent a Notice of Default asking for payment of £762.86. Mr A paid in £765 which 
was credited to the account on 29 March 2021. Nationwide registered a default. 
Mr A complained that a default was wrongly registered as he paid in the amount needed to 
avoid it. He said after Nationwide agreed to remove the default, it took too long to do that  
up to 6-8 weeks. Mr A said that in view of the nature of his job, the default meant that he 
could be dismissed. He said the compensation should be a minimum of £500.
Nationwide apologised and said the registration of the default was an error. They agreed to 
remove it and gave a letter to Mr A saying it was their fault  for Mr A to use. Nationwide said 
the removal of the default from Mr As credit file would take 6-8 weeks  unfortunately that 
was the time the process takes. They offered compensation of £150 and didnt agree to pay 
£500.
Mr A didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Nationwide had 
dealt with Mr As complaint reasonably. He thought the compensation offered was a fair and 
reasonable sum.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Nationwides records and see that a Notice of Default was issued on 3 March 
2021 and required a payment of £762.86. Mr A paid in £765 on 29 March 2021. I havent 
seen the actual Notice of Default  as its not in dispute that Mr A paid in the amount needed 
by the deadline  which is normally within 30 days.
Nationwide admitted they made an error in registering a default even though Mr A paid in the 
amount needed and by the deadline. So - Mr As complaint comes down to whether 
Nationwide did enough to deal with his complaint.
I can see the evidence that Nationwide removed the default from Mr As credit file. Mr A says 
that the time taken to update his credit file  6-8 weeks - was too long, and he was at risk of 
losing his job. Ive thought about this, but Im afraid thats how long the process takes  as 
files must be uploaded to the credit reference agencies, typically at the end of each month. I 
do know that the process is common to every firm and the timescales are typical for the 
industry  so I cant hold Nationwide responsible for any delay here.
Nationwide also gave Mr A a letter addressed to whom it may concern (dated 13 July 2021) 
admitting their error  for him to show to his employer or any other lender. Ive seen the letter 
 and this was the right thing for Nationwide to do.
Coming on to the impact on Mr A. He says his job was under threat because of what 
happened. I accept that may have been the case, but he hasnt told us that anything 
untoward did happen  he didnt lose his job. 
Ive then considered the amount of compensation. Our service has set out some criteria for 
deciding on awards. This says an award of up to £300 might be suitable where there has 
been a large single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out  and resulting in a mild 
impact across a few days, or weeks. I can see that Mr A called Nationwide in early July 2021 
about what had happened. I cant see he had to make several and repeated calls  - which 
might had led to a higher award  and Nationwide then quickly agreed to put things right. So, 
I do think that the offer of £150 by Nationwide is the right amount to be paid to settle this 
complaint. Mr A should contact Nationwide directly if he now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman