DRN-3439211
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint relates to a Group Self-Invested Personal Pension (the Group SIPP or the 
SIPP), held with Curtis Banks Limited (CBL), in which he had an interest. It also relates to 
the following main allegations: 
Questionable transactions in the SIPPs bank account. [issue 1]
CBL conducting an incorrect fund split in one of the SIPPs investments, leading to 
an under-settlement. [issue 2]
CBL paying an unwarranted refund to the tenant of a commercial property held in the 
SIPP after the propertys sale. [issue 3]
Incorrect deduction of a £480 scheme fee. [issue 4]
CBLs failure to uphold an offer to waive its transfer out fee of £300 because he was 
moving from the Group SIPP to a Curtis Banks SIPP. [issue 5]
What happened
The investigators view and post-view communications, taken together, provides a helpful 
summary of events, of key findings and of key comments from both parties up to the point 
the matter was referred to an ombudsman. I cite these in the summaries that follow below. 
The investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. Her initial view mainly 
said:
CBL concedes issue 2, it explained why it happened, it confirmed its correction 
(including Mr Ts receipt of the value share he was entitled to) and it offered Mr T 
£200 (then increased to £300) as a gesture for the shortfall in its service in this 
respect. It also concedes issue 4, it explained that the deduction was made in error 
and that arrangements had been made to refund it to the relevant members (relevant 
member of the Group) new SIPP. Both issues have therefore been resolved.
CBL disputes issue 5 and it says it has found no evidence of the fee waiver offer that 
Mr T asserts. In any case, it considers that its £300 gesture payment to him could be 
viewed as meeting the alleged £300 fee waiver offer.
An analysis of the transactions relevant to issue 1 [which the investigator set out in 
her view] shows a number of duplicated and incorrect debits from the SIPPs bank 
account, some of which were based on wrongly raised invoices, but evidence also 
shows that each has since been explained and corrected. As such, this issue has 
also been resolved. [The investigator made note of the distress and frustration the 
errors in this issue would have caused Mr T, but said the priority was to ensure he 
had been put back into his rightful position in the issue, and that had happened.]
The refund in issue 3 was not unwarranted. Analysis of the relevant rent payment 
and property sale transactions show that the refund was due following the propertys 
sale. There was a mismatch between the quarterly rent due dates and the quarterly 
rent payments by the tenant. The former were the dates of 25 March, 24 June, 29 
September and 25 December, but the tenant made quarterly rent payments on the 1st 
of each quarter. The tenancy began on 1 December 2015 and a quarters rent was 
£11,100. The first rent invoice was for the period beginning 25 December 2015, so a 
one-off invoice to cover the period between 1 and 24 December was raised, but was 
not paid by the tenant  this remained the case until the property was sold on 20 
September 2019. In addition, insurance invoices to the tenant (for September 2017 to 
September 2018, and September 2018 to June 2019) were only partly paid, leaving 
unpaid balances. On 3 September 2019 the tenant made a rent payment ahead of 
and for the quarter beginning 29 September 2019, but the property was sold on 20 
September 2019, prior to that quarter, so a refund of this payment became due. CBL 
totalled and deducted what was owed to the SIPP in terms of the unpaid rent and 
partly unpaid invoice amounts and deducted that from the £11,100 rent payment, the 
balance due back to the tenant was £7,921.74. The amount that had already been 
deducted, for this, from the property sale completion statement was £7,298.63, so 
the difference of £623.11 is what was refunded to the tenant  and is what Mr T 
disputes. On the above basis, the refund of this difference was correctly made.
Mr T maintained his dispute in issue 3 (including a challenge about the calculation of VAT in 
the insurance related invoices) and all parties  him, CBL and the investigator  engaged in 
clarifying the key facts, figures and calculations in the issue. 
In conclusion, the investigator obtained information (including lease terms and invoice 
related evidence) that confirmed the following  the lease began on 1 December 2015; rent 
was £11,100 (including VAT) per quarter; rent (of £2,919.46, pro rata) was not paid for the 
initial period of 1 to 24 December 2015 because the tenants first rental payment on 25 
December 2015 covered the period from then to 24 March 2016; by the time the property 
was sold on 20 September 2019 the tenant had paid for the quarter ending 28 September 
2019, so a refund of eight days rent was due; in addition, the SIPP received the £11,100 
paid for the quarter beginning 29 September 2019; that had to be refunded, but before doing 
so the three outstanding amounts owed to the SIPP (the unpaid £2,919.46 plus a shortfall of 
£238.80 from the 2017/18 insurance payment invoice, and plus a shortfall of £20 from the 
2018/19 insurance payment invoice) totalled £3,178.26 and this was deducted from the 
£11,100 payment; the remainder was the £7,921.74 rent balance amount which, because of 
the property sale, was owed to the propertys buyer; the conveyancing solicitor, in the 
property transaction, had already deducted £7,298.63 for this in the transactions completion 
statement so the balance of £623.11 (which was ultimately due to the buyer) was refunded 
to the tenant as a net rent overpayment. 
CBL also cited lease terms which confirmed that the insurance invoices were subject to VAT.
Mr T did not accept this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As summarised above, issues 1, 2 and 4 have been conceded, explained and rectified by 
CBL. Available evidence supports this conclusion and, at least following the investigators 
view, they no longer appear to be in dispute. I consider CBLs offer of £300 to Mr T for the 
shortfall in its service is fair and reasonable, given the circumstances of the case  including 
the mitigating effects of the corrections CBL appears to have meaningfully applied to its 
errors. 
With regards to issue 5 I too have not found evidence to confirm, as a fact, that the transfer 
fee waiver was offered to Mr T. This does not mean I doubt his account of the matter. The basis for the asserted waiver appears to have been that Mr T was moving from the Group 
SIPP to another CBL related SIPP so it is possible  in the context of CBL retaining his 
business  that such an offer was made. However, I need more than a possibility to uphold 
this issue because the fee is legitimate, so there is a call to establish reasonably firm 
grounds to conclude on balance that it was not applicable to Mr T, and I have not found such 
grounds.
Issue 3 is quite clearly what remains the main issue in contention. Given what I consider to 
have been a catalogue of errors by CBL  notwithstanding that, as I noted above, it engaged 
meaningfully in repairing them  I can understand why Mr T could be reluctant to accept that 
there has been no further error in this issue. It is my perception that the investigator might 
have shared the same sentiment, and she maintained focus on establishing the accuracy off 
the facts, figures and calculations directly relevant to the disputed refund.
Despite Mr Ts understandable reservations, I consider that due weight must nevertheless 
be given to those facts, figures and calculations and, in my view, they combine to dictate the 
outcome of issue 3  that outcome being that the refund was indeed due (to the tenant 
and/or the new landlord of the commercial property, depending on perspective) and that the 
refund amount did not belong to the SIPP.
As stated above, CBL has referred us to the specific terms in the lease which say the 
insurance payment invoices were to be subjected to VAT  it explained that its provision of 
the insurance, for the tenant, through its brokers amounted to a service provision that is 
VATable and met the terms of the lease confirming the application of VAT to taxable 
supplies made in connection with the lease and to the tenants obligation to make payments 
in connection with the lease by way of a refund or indemnity. CB also addressed, with 
reasons, the submission made by Mr T about record showing the invoices were not subject 
to VAT. I do not consider it necessary to be drawn further into this debate because, on 
balance, I am not satisfied it is as relevant as Mr T might consider.
His arguments, with regards to the VAT treatments, are that  the property transaction was 
VAT exempt, so the £7,298.63 deducted by the solicitor was net; and that the insurance 
payment invoices did not include VAT; so the tenants rent obligation was balanced (it was 
neither in debit nor credit) and the tenant owed nothing in terms of the insurance payment 
invoices, which did not include VAT.
How VAT was treated (or not treated) in the property transaction stands on its own. Issue 3 
is essentially about how CBL treated the last £11,100 rent payment from the tenant which 
covered the period between 29 September 2019 and 25 December 2019. At first, none of 
this payment was due to the SIPP, because the SIPPs ownership of the property ended on 
20 September 2019. However, debts were owed to the SIPP so deductions were first made 
for them and the remainder amounted to money the SIPP was not entitled to  hence the 
need to refund it. That remainder was £7,921.74 but £7,298.63 of this had been deducted 
from the property sale proceeds for the same purpose. As such, only the balance of £623.11 
remained as money the SIPP was not entitled to  hence the refund of this amount.
If Mr Ts argument is that no more than £7,298.63 in the £11,100 payment was money the 
SIPP was not entitled to  so the additional £623.11 belonged to the SIPP and should not 
have been refunded  the implication is that more than £3, 178.26 should have been 
deducted from the £11,100 payment to achieve this. Yet his submissions are to the contrary, 
he says neither of the insurance payment invoice shortfalls were owed by the tenant, so 
neither should have been deducted. If that happened, less than £3,178.26 would have been 
deducted. This argument does not seem to add to his case.
In conclusion, returning to the facts, figures and calculations, and to sum up the above findings, available evidence presents that rent for the initial period of 1 December 2015 to 24 
December 2015, under the lease, remained unpaid until the property was sold.; the pro rata 
calculation of that rent amount is as I mentioned above; it was owed to the SIPP upon the 
propertys sale so its deduction from the last £11,100 rent overpayment (to the SIPP) was 
legitimate; the two partly unpaid invoices were also owed to the SIPP so their deduction from 
the £11,100 payment was also legitimate; the calculation shows that the remainder was 
£7,921.74; I have explained above how this was money that did not belong to the SIPP, how 
this was reconciled with what had been deducted from the property sale proceeds for the 
same purpose, and how that left the £623.11 that was refunded; in strict terms, the new 
owner/landlord owned this payment as it represented a part of the rent due after 20 
September 2019, but the point is that it was refunded to the tenant in this context.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that issue 3 can fairly be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman