DRN-3260001
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund a transaction which he 
says he didnt authorise. 
What happened
In April 2021, Mr S received a call from someone claiming to be from Amazon, offering a 
refund for his Prime subscription. He says this seemed credible as had a Prime subscription 
which hed been trying to cancel. He was sent a link to a form and told to fill it in to get the 
refund. It seems, that in the process, this gave the caller remote access to his phone. 
The caller directed Mr S to check his accounts to get the refund and help rectify the issue 
hed been having with his subscription. He recalls mention of needing to link his accounts. I 
can see open banking was approved on his Starling app, then around one minute later a 
payment of £400 was made  seemingly to account in his name, held with another firm (R). 
Mr S says he didnt authorise this and hes never held an account with R. 
Starling has refused to refund Mr S. It says he breached the terms by giving access to his 
phone and log-in details. But our investigator didnt think the payment wasnt authorised by 
Mr S. Nor did they think hed failed intentionally, or through gross negligence, to keep his 
account safe. So they thought Starling should refund the payment  which they were 
satisfied hadnt been paid into an account actually held by Mr S  with interest, and that it 
should pay £100 for poor service. 
Mr S also thought Starling had blocked his account following the dispute, but the investigator 
found no evidence of this. 
Mr S agreed with the investigators outcome  but Starling didnt. It said the recipient account 
couldnt have been opened without his knowledge, so it has no way of knowing whether he 
benefitted from the payment. And it questions Rs liability if he didnt open the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr S isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise  unless he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security credentials safe. 
Its clear the payment was properly authenticated via online banking. But to be authorised, 
the PSRs also require him to have consented to the payment. They also set out how consent 
is given; this isnt open to interpretation. It must be given in the form, and accordance with 
the procedure, agreed between Mr S and Starling. Essentially that means Mr S would have 
consented to the payment if he, or someone acting on his behalf, completed the agreed 
steps for making a transaction. 
 On balance, considering the PSRs, Im persuaded he didnt authorise this payment. To do 
so, he would have needed to log into his online banking; give consent to Starling to 
participate in open banking; then enter his password to create the destination payee and 
allow the payment to go through. Mr S says he did enter his password to log onto his online 
banking. But its unclear if he gave consent for open banking. And Im satisfied it wasnt him 
who entered the password to allow this particular payment to go through. Hes given a 
consistent and plausible account for how a scammer got unauthorised control of his device, 
allowing them to see the details he entered to log into the app and use those to make the 
payment. The steps he took (such as logging into the app) were done to receive a payment, 
not to allow anyone else to make payments. 
I appreciate Starlings point about the loss, given that the recipient account appeared to be in 
Mr Ss name. But weve seen records from R showing the funds were transferred in and out 
of the account very quickly  fitting a known pattern of fraud. R has told us the account 
doesnt seem to have been opened by Mr S, and could have been opened by an 
unauthorised fraudster using stolen personal data. Starling hasnt provided comparable 
evidence to refute this. Id also point out that Im not considering Rs role here. What I am 
considering is Starlings liability under the PSRs. Overall, Im persuaded neither Mr S, nor 
someone with his permission, completed all the steps required to have consented to the 
payment  meaning it was unauthorised. And this unauthorised payment caused him a loss. 
That means Starling is liable for the payment unless Mr S failed with intent or gross 
negligence. I consider it clear that he didnt intentionally fail to keep his account details 
secure. Its clear he didnt think that the steps he followed (such as using the scammers link 
and opening his online banking to check for the refund) would affect his account security. 
Nor am I persuaded his actions showed such a significant degree of carelessness to 
constitute gross negligence. He reasonably thought he was acting on the instructions of a 
legitimate, established company, with whom he holds a customer relationship, and which 
appeared to have correct information about his subscription. In the circumstances, I can see 
why he therefore trusted their instructions  and didnt foresee the risk. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied Starling should fairly and reasonably refund Mr S for the 
£400 payment. And that it should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount to 
compensate him for the loss of use of those funds.
Our investigator also suggested £100 compensation for Mr Ss distress and inconvenience. 
The loss itself was ultimately caused by the cruel actions of the scammer, as the investigator 
pointed out. But Starling added to his stress and frustration by failing to refund him promptly 
in line with its obligations under the PSRs. So Im satisfied this compensation is fair.  
Although Mr S hasnt disputed this point  for completeness, Ive checked the available 
information and havent found anything to suggest Starling blocked his account. And so I 
dont think it needs to take action to put this right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Starling Bank Limited to refund Mr S £400 for the disputed transaction. It should pay 8% 
simple interest per year on this amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
And it should pay him £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman