DRN-2675236
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Woolwich) mis-sold Mr M a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out a loan in 2000, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy was set up 
to protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will explain why. 
The PPI was taken out about 21 years ago and because of this the actual loan and PPI 
documents are no longer available. So, I cant be completely sure how the policy was 
presented during any discussions. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so many years ago  so it can be hard to know how much I can 
fairly rely on everything they now remember.
But, on balance, I think its likely that Barclays made Mr M aware the PPI was optional and 
that Mr M chose to take it out. I say this because there is some evidence of the type of loan 
document used at the time, which showed the PPI as optional. The loan document, which 
Mr M would have had to sign, is likely to have set out separately the amount of the PPI 
premium; also how much this would cost overall with interest, and how much this added to 
the monthly payments.  I think its likely that Barclays presented the PPI as a choice during 
discussions  and probably advised that PPI would be a good idea for someone in Mr Ms 
circumstances. 
It seems that Barclays advised Mr M to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was an 
unsuitable recommendation, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time. 
The policy offered a benefit if Mr M was made redundant. And, although Mr M would have 
received employer sick pay, the accident and sickness benefit provided by the policy could 
still have been useful. This is because it would pay out on top off any employer sick pay and 
potentially for longer. It would also pay out on top of any redundancy payment. So this would 
have enabled Mr M to put off asking friends and family for help  which is what hes said he 
would have done. Mr M appeared to have been eligible for the policy; and it seems also 
wouldnt have been affected by any significant exclusions within the policy.
Mr M would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the policy had been 
cancelled early. This can be an issue where a customer might pay the loan off early  for 
example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was 
likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it unsuitable for Mr M. 
Judging from other examples Ive seen from the time, the cost of the policy was set out in the 
loan agreement clearly  including the amount of the single premium, the interest payable on 
the premium and the total cost. So I think Mr M would have understood how much the PPI 
would cost. The policy also seems to have been affordable.
Its possible that Barclays didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover  but I cant 
see that Mr M would have been significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Mr M wasnt mis-sold PPI by Barclays.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman