DRN-2619478
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Yorkshire Bank (Yorkshire Bank) 
allowed an account under its control to receive and dispose of fraudulently obtained funds, 
that had been sent from Mr Ms account.
Mr M brings his complaint on behalf of his company, B Limited. 
What happened
On 4 September 2019, Mr M made a payment of £11,950 to a third party from his bank 
account. Mr Ms account was with a third-party bank Ill refer to as H and he entered the 
payees details, having received them by email. The next day, Mr M became aware that the 
email he had received had been intercepted by a fraudster, who had inserted a different sort 
code and account number into the email.
Mr M called H to report the matter and to try to recover the funds. H contacted Yorkshire 
Bank, but unfortunately almost all of the funds had already been taken from the account. 
Yorkshire was only able to return £12.32 to H, which it did.
Mr M complained to Yorkshire Bank. He said the payee listed on his payment was a different 
name to that of the Yorkshire Bank account holder, and that Yorkshire Bank shouldnt have 
accepted the payment to an account in a different name.
Yorkshire Bank issued its final response on 23 January 2020. It said the Faster Payment 
scheme rules stated that it could accept payments with the correct account number and sort 
code, and that the beneficiary name wasnt part of the executing payment instruction. It said 
it had done what it could to recover the funds, but had been unsuccessful, save for the 
£12.32. And that it had acted correctly in accepting the transfer into its account.
Mr M didnt agree, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ms 
complaint. She said the account activity should have alerted Yorkshire Bank that something 
was wrong. And said that it should pay Mr M the balance of the unrecovered funds 
(£11,937.68) plus interest at a rate of 8%.
Yorkshire bank didnt agree. It said H should have flagged the transaction if it thought it was 
suspicious and it questioned whether B Limited had done enough to confirm the bank details 
were genuine. It also said that its unlikely its customer would have admitted to being 
involved in fraud, had it blocked the transaction and contacted the customer.
Because our investigator couldnt reach an agreement, Yorkshire Bank asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept what Yorkshire Bank says about the payees name not being part of the process 
when it accepts a Faster Payment. However, the issue with this case is whether or not the 
activity on the account should have triggered it to take further action.
The Yorkshire Bank account was new and had only been open for around three months. In 
that time, the only activity on the account was deposits or payments of under £15, with the 
exception of one credit of £260 and one payment of £170. The £11,950 from B Limited then 
entered the account and two payments were made very quickly: one for £4,990 to a money 
transfer service and one for £6,950 to a third-party bank account.
Ive thought about what Yorkshire Bank has said about its actions, and Ive looked at the 
evidence its provided. Having done so, Im of the view that Yorkshire Bank should have been 
concerned by the payments on its customers account and should have taken further action.
The account was new, so Yorkshire Bank didnt have a long history of transactions against 
which to measure the transactions connected to Mr Ms case. The payment in was high 
value and significantly higher than any payment that had entered the account previously. All 
of which was unusual and suspicious, particularly given the age of the account.
There then followed two immediate high value payments out, including one for almost 
£5,000 to a money transfer service. I take the view that those transactions were unusual and 
suspicious in the context of this account, particularly given the transfers were made 
immediately on receipt of the credit.
Yorkshire Bank didnt block any of the transactions or seek proof of entitlement to the funds, 
or an explanation from its customer as to the reasons behind the payments. I accept that the 
customer was unlikely to confess to involvement in the fraud if contacted, but Im satisfied 
that the fraud would have been prevented, had Yorkshire Bank taken further action.
H reported the fraud to Yorkshire Bank at around 10:50am the day after the transaction was 
made and I think its more likely than not that Yorkshire Bank wouldnt have completed due 
diligence checks, requested and processed evidence from its customer and released the 
payments within that time.
Our investigator put many of the above points to Yorkshire Bank in her view, but Yorkshire 
Bank didnt provide any further evidence to rebut those arguments, nor did it provide any 
persuasive comments or submissions.
It follows then that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right, Yorkshire Bank must pay B 
Limited the £11,937.68 it has lost out on, plus simple interest at the rate of 8%, from 27 
September 2019, being the date that it returned the available funds (£12.32) to Mr M, until 
the date of settlement.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Yorkshire 
Bank must pay B Limited:
1. £11,937.68; and
2. Simple interest at the rate of 8% from 27 September 2019 until the date of 
settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman