DRN-1744482
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) didnt advise her of all the charges that 
would be made to her bank account in advance of her making two international bank 
payments.
What happened
Ms T has a bank account with HSBC and made two international payments online and was 
subsequently charged for making these payments. Ms T feels that HSBC should have 
detailed these charges at the time she made the international payments, particularly as she 
had not been charged previously. 
HSBC says the charges were applied by the intermediary bank involved in the transaction 
and Ms T had chosen the option to pay all the fees when making the payment online, 
which includes those of the intermediary bank. HSBC say they are unable to advise 
customers of these fees in advance as they are passed on by the  intermediary bank 
involved and they are not within their control. 
Ms T was unhappy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint as Ms T 
had selected to pay all the fees relating to the payments and HSBC couldnt be expected to 
know what the intermediary bank fees might be in advance of the payments being sent. The 
investigator said that this service couldnt investigate the charges made by the intermediary 
bank, as overseas businesses are outside our jurisdiction. 
Ms T was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons and I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can see that it would be frustrating for Ms T to be advised of the international payment 
charges after the payments had been made,  when on previous occasions she had not paid 
charges for similar international payments.
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether HSBC should have made Ms T 
aware of the amount of charges that might be payable by the intermediary bank, before the 
international payments were sent. 
When Ms T made the international payments online, I can see from a guide provided to this 
service, that she was given the options to  pay all the fees , payee to pay all the fees or only 
pay HSBC UK fees. Ms T selected to pay all the fees and at that point the payment screen 
indicates that intermediary fees may be payable. Ms T feels at this point it should have 
shown what the intermediary bank fees would be.  
I am satisfied that it wouldnt be possible for HSBC, or any other bank, to know in advance 
what these fees might be, as these fees can vary depending the currency, amount and the 
charging structure of the intermediary used. What is important here is that the payment 
process does mention that intermediary bank fees may be payable when selecting to pay all 
the fees. 
While Ms T may disagree, at the point of confirming she would pay all the fees she had the 
opportunity to question what the fees might be, by contacting her bank. Ms T says that she 
hadnt  been charged previously and that could be why she didnt look to contact her bank, 
but there is no guarantee that intermediary banks wont change their charging structures. Ms 
T has said that HSBC should be aware of the fees to be charged by the intermediary bank, 
HSBC India, but these are two quite separate businesses and I am satisfied that HSBC 
wouldnt necessarily be aware of how much they may charge. The investigator has 
confirmed to Ms T these charges have only recently been applied by HSBC India, but it is 
normal practice for such intermediaries to charge for their services. 
I am satisfied Ms Ts issue about the level of charges made is a matter between her and 
HSBC India and not something for us to decide upon, as this is an overseas business 
outside of our jurisdiction.  I can see that HSBC have tried to be helpful by explaining to Ms 
T what they believed the charges related to but ultimately these are charges made by HSBC 
India and not them. 
With this in mind, I am satisfied that HSBC acted fairly in charging Ms T the intermediary 
banks fees following the international payments.
I know Ms T will be disappointed with my decision, but it follows I wont be asking anymore 
of HSBC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman