DRN-2916560
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy to cover a mortgage in 1997.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in May 2021 I explained why I didnt think this
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Nationwide had to make Ms M aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before
adding the policy to her mortgage. Due to the time thats passed there is limited information
available from the time the policy was sold. But this isnt unusual considering the sale took
place more than 20 years ago, and businesses arent required to keep this type of
information indefinitely. From the information that is available I dont have enough to say the
policy was not presented as optional, or that Ms M didnt choose to take it out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it was
right for her
.
Its possible the information nationwide gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. Our adjudicator looked at this and didnt think Ms M would have taken her
policy because it would have been more difficult for her to claim under the policy if she lost
her main job.
I have also looked at this, but I dont agree. Although Ms M has told us she also worked part-
time alongside her full-time role, she has also confirmed that its unlikely she was working
more than 16 part-time hours per week.
The policy allowed Ms M to claim for unemployment if she was working less than 16 hours
per week. So the policy would have provided cover for Ms M if she lost her main job which I
think would have been important to her.
Ms M told us she was entitled to statutory sick pay when she took the policy, but the PPI
would have paid out in addition to Ms Ms sick pay and for longer. The PPI would also have
helped protect any other means Ms M may have had so they could be used towards other
essential expenses.
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for Ms M if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
So, I dont think Nationwide should have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
I gave Nationwide and Ms M time to respond to my provisional decision, but nothing further 
was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But as neither side responded with anything further for me to consider I see no reason to 
come to a different decision to that explained above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman