DRN-3538683
The complaint
Miss D complains that ReAssure Limited used an incorrect assumption when it calculated 
the redress due to her following its consideration of the advice she was given to transfer out 
of her Defined Benefit (DB) pension scheme under the Pension Review in 1998. Miss D says 
that ReAssure should re-calculate her redress using the current methodology.  
What happened
In 1991 Miss D was advised by a business now part of ReAssure Limited, to transfer the 
benefits from her occupational DB pension scheme she held to a personal pension 
arrangement.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of Personal Pension Plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine the level of any redress due. The review was intended to be a 
one-off exercise to put right any damage caused by poor advice.
In 1998 ReAssure provided Miss D with the outcome of its review of the advice she was 
given. It determined that she should not have been advised to transfer the benefits from her 
DB scheme and it offered compensation of just over £5,500, which Miss D accepted. 
Because the trustees of Miss Ds DB scheme would not allow her to be re-instated in the 
scheme as she was no longer an active member, redress was paid into Miss Ds personal 
pension.
Miss D complained to ReAssure, via her representative, in June 2020. In summary she said 
that the advice she received to transfer her benefits from her DB pension scheme to a 
personal pension was unsuitable.
ReAssure responded to the complaint on 24 July 2020. It said it didnt uphold the complaint 
because Miss Ds pension plan had been reviewed as part of the industry wide Pension 
Review in 1998 and it was satisfied this was carried out in the line with the guidelines at the 
time.
Miss D referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
investigators considered the complaint - but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary they 
said Miss Ds pension has been reviewed as part of the Pension Review and she accepted 
ReAssures offer of compensation. 
They said there was nothing to suggest that ReAssure hadnt carried out the review unfairly 
or out of line with the regulatory guidelines at the time. 
Miss Ds representative disagreed. They maintained that ReAssure had made an incorrect 
policy fee assumption of zero when it calculated Miss Ds redress and so they said redress 
should be calculated again using the regulators up to date redress methodology.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what I can see, the crux of Miss Ds complaint is that she believes ReAssure used an 
incorrect assumption when it calculated her redress in 1998 as part of the Pension Review  
it assumed the policy fee was zero  and so this renders the offer and acceptance of the 
redress invalid and Reassure should carry out a revised calculation. ReAssure says the 
calculation is correct.
ReAssure has provided us with a copy of the calculations it used in 1998 to assess Miss Ds 
compensation under the Pension Review. And looking at these I can see a policy fee of zero 
was used. ReAssure has said this was correct and its also provided what appears to be a 
short extract from a policy document in support of what it says. Neither Miss D nor her 
representative have provided any evidence to support their assertion  theyve simply said 
that a policy fee of zero was incorrect.
Im also considered that, more generally businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to 
internal and external quality checks by the regulator, so I think its unlikely the calculations 
were incorrect. 
So taking everything into account, on balance I think ReAssures assumptions used in its 
calculation of Miss Ds Pension Review redress were correct and that the review was likely 
carried out correctly.
Im mindful that the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off process, which was based 
on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable 
assumptions for future growth rates. Some of those assumption, in particular relating to 
expected growth rates, havent come to realisation. But this isnt a reason to undertake the 
Pension Review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a 
business like ReAssure was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling. And also so 
that it knew it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future. This was important 
for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial services more generally. 
But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Miss D.
Overall and based on the evidence presented in this case, I think ReAssure likely carried out 
the review of Miss Ds pension correctly and as it was required to do by the regulator at the 
time  Ive not seen anything to persuade me otherwise. So I dont think there are fair and 
reasonable grounds to look at this matter again.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman