DRN-3338743
The complaint
Mr Q is complaining about the way esure Insurance Limited has handled a claim he made on 
his car insurance policy for the theft of his car.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr Qs car was stolen from his house so he contacted esure to claim for the 
damage on his car insurance policy. esure thought his car was a total loss and said it would 
settle the claim by paying him the cars market value less his excess of £300. It valued the 
car at £5,780. Mr Q chose to retain the car, so esure deducted £2,000 from the settlement 
as the cars salvage value. Mr Q is unhappy with whats happened in the claim journey. In 
summary hes unhappy about the following:
Hes unhappy esure sent the car to a salvage agent  who I shall refer to as C.
He disagreed his car was a total loss, so he said he wanted to inspect the car himself. 
He arranged with esure and C to inspect it, but when he got there, C wouldnt allow him 
to do so.
C lost the key to the car. It said it would arrange to get a replacement key, but Mr Q says 
it didnt do so in a reasonable timeframe, so he paid around £409 to replace it himself.
He says C damaged the alternator by putting jump leads on the battery the wrong way 
around.
He eventually was able to visit his car but C didnt have a ramp so his engineer wasnt 
able to inspect the underside of the car  the main area of damage. esure agreed to 
transport the car to Mr Qs chosen garage. But Mr Q says his car was damaged further 
when the driver of the transporter offloaded the car as the front bumper was pulled off 
and the car fell back into a wall damaging the rear bumper.
esure agreed to refund the cost of the replacement key (£409) and pay to replace the 
alternator (£210) and £64 for a lost number plate  £683 in total. However, it said C had 
given a different version of events to Mr Q about who was responsible for the damage to the 
bumper as Cs driver had disputed causing any damage. But, it offered him £400 towards 
the repair of the bumpers. Mr Q says this was for both bumpers. It also offered him £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused.
Mr Q didnt accept esures offer. He said he only agreed to take the car back on the basis 
esure said it would pay for all the damage C had caused. And he said it would cost a lot 
more than £400 to repair the bumpers.
I issued a provisional decision saying I thought esures offer was fair and I said the following:
I can see a lot of things have gone wrong in the handling of this claim  thats not disputed. 
But I think esure has resolved the majority of issues so Im not going to comment on them 
further. I think the primary issues that remain outstanding are the outstanding damage to the 
bumpers and the level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr Q has 
suffered. I shall deal with each point separately.
Damage to the bumpers
esure has offered £400 as a cash settlement for bumper damage. It says it explained this 
was only for the damage to the rear bumper. Mr Q maintains esure offered to repair both 
bumpers and he says he only accepted the car back on the basis it said it would repair both 
bumpers.
Ive reviewed the email correspondence between Mr Q and esure as well as internal 
correspondence and Im satisfied that, on balance, this cash settlement offer was only for the 
rear bumper. I appreciate Mr Q says he only agreed to have the car back as he says esure 
assured him it would pay for everything. But I havent seen anything to support this. And 
esure's final response letter to Mr Q makes this clear to. esure has also provided me with 
sufficient evidence to show that the rear bumper could be repaired or replaced for this 
amount. So I think £400 is a fair offer to repair the rear bumper.
Ive now thought about whether it was fair for esure to say its not liable for the damage to 
the front bumper. Ive thought about Mr Qs testimony regarding how the damage occurred 
and I do find it persuasive. So I think its likely the front bumper did become further dislodged 
when the car came off the ramp. But it also needs to be remembered that esure had chosen 
to settle the claim for theft related damage by paying Mr Q the cars market value, less its 
salvage value. esure is, therefore, only liable for additional costs Mr Q would have to repair 
the car due to any negligent act by esure or one of its agents. 
esure has provided a number of photos of Mr Qs car after it was recovered from the theft. 
Im satisfied that this shows the bumper was already damaged in the accident and had been 
partially dislodged during the theft. I think this is likely to have contributed towards the front 
bumper becoming further dislodged when the car arrived at Mr Qs chosen repairing garage. 
esure maintains that Mr Q was always going to have to pay to either replace the bumper or, 
at least, repair the damage to enable the bumper to be reattached. From looking at the 
photos esure has provided, Im persuaded by this. Firstly, Im not persuaded that the bumper 
became further detached because of any negligent act by esures agent. But, even if it was, I 
dont think this has increased the costs Mr Q would have already incurred in repairing the 
theft related damage.
Taking everything into consideration, I think esure has already offered to fairly compensate 
Mr Q for any additional losses he would have to incur to repair the car following its theft. 
Distress and inconvenience
Its inevitable that there will always be some distress and inconvenience from having to 
make a claim. But, as I said above, theres no dispute a lot has gone wrong in the handling 
of this claim. In particular I note the following: 
Mr Q visited C to inspect his car, but he wasnt allowed to see it. I understand Mr Q had 
spoken with esure and C before he went to see the car. So I think this inconvenience 
could and should have been avoided.
Mr Qs car suffered further damage while in the possession of C or due to Cs actions. As 
I said above, I think C was acting on behalf of esure in storing Mr Qs car. So I think 
esure is liable for Cs actions.
There was a significant delay in Mr Q being able to inspect the car because C misplaced 
the replacement key. Mr Q had to ultimately pay to replace the key himself due to the 
time it took C to replace it. While, I recognise esure refunded this cost, this matter would 
have caused Mr Q some distress and inconvenience.
However, esure has already offered Mr Q £200 in compensation. This is in line with what I would have awarded, so I think its fair compensation for the avoidable distress and 
inconvenience Mr Q has suffered. 
Mr Q didnt accept my provisional decision and he raised the following points:
esure didnt inspect the car before declaring it a total loss. He didnt think this was fair.
He said he only agreed to accept the car back on the proviso esure would recover the 
damage back from C.
The claim took an unreasonable period of time to resolve due to C losing the cars key 
and the time it took to get a replacement key. He didnt think £200 was sufficient 
compensation for this delay.
He disputed he was ever able to inspect the car  merely view it when it was finally 
returned to him.
He says images from the accident show no damage to the bumper. So he disputes 
damage to the front bumper was caused by the accident as opposed to by the recovery 
agent.
He said the damage at the rear wasnt limited to the bumper as he said the rear tailgate 
and light fitting was also damaged.
He provided evidence of how much the manufacturer dealership said it would cost to fix 
the damage.
Hes happy esure agreed to refund the cost to the damage to the alternator and 
replacement key and number plate. But he says no consideration has been given to the 
time its taken him to arrange the resolution of this.
esure didnt provide anything further in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Qs additional comments, but Ive still come to the same conclusion as I 
did in my provisional decision. I appreciate Mr Q doesnt agree with what Ive said, but I think 
my provisional decision largely explains why Ive come to the decision I did. So I dont intend 
to comment any further on anything I set out in my provision decision.  However, Mr Q has 
raised some further comments that I didnt comment on previously. So I shall now explain 
why these havent changed my decision.
Mr Q says he only accepted the car back on the proviso that esure would recover the 
damage back from C. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I havent seen anything to 
show that esure said it would pay for the damage to the front bumper. So I remain of the 
opinion that it acted fairly in regards to this. 
However, Mr Q has highlighted that there was also damage to the rear tailgate and has 
provided photos to support this. I cant see that he ever raised this with esure. However, 
looking at the damage, it is in the same area as the damage to the rear bumper. So I think 
its likely to have occurred in the same incident. esure doesnt believe it needs to pay 
anything further for this. It said the £400 it offered was a gesture of goodwill and it 
maintained there wasnt evidence to support Mr Qs assertion that the car was damaged by 
a negligent act on behalf of Cs agent. Nevertheless, it maintained that £400 was fair 
compensation to fix the damage to the rear of the car.
Ive reviewed the photos Mr Q has provided of the additional damage to the tailgate and light 
fitting but I think the damage is minor. esure has set out how it calculated the cost of repair to the rear damage and Im satisfied £400 is fair compensation for the damage caused to the 
rear of the car and Ive not seen enough to say its not fair compensation.
I note Mr Q disputes that the front bumper was damaged in the theft, but as I said in my 
provisional decision, Ive seen sufficient evidence to support the fact it was. So I dont intend 
to comment on this any further
I note Mr Q has provided a repair estimate from a manufacturer dealership to fix the damage 
to the car, but I think this is to fix all the damage, including the theft related damage. esure 
has settled the claim for the damage arising from the theft by paying him the cars market 
value, less the estimated salvage value. So I think it has fairly settled this aspect of the 
claim. Im further conscious that the total repair estimate is £3,842.24. But esure has already 
paid £3,780 (less the applicable excess) plus a further £400 for the damage to the rear. So, 
taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded it needs to offer anything further.
Finally, I note Mr Q says he hasnt been compensated for the time and effort hes had to put 
in to resolve this matter. But esure has offered him £200 in compensation and I still think this 
is fair for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think esure Insurance Limited 
has already offered fair compensation to put things right. So it should pay the following, if it 
hasnt already done so, to put things right:
1. £683 for the costs incurred in respect to the cost of the replacement key and to replace 
the alternator and lost number plate;
2. £400 to resolve the damage to the rear of the car; and
3. £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had unfairly caused.
I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman