DRN-1692807
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as CashPlus) didnt notify 
him when an annual fee on the account was due. He said if hed been notified, he would 
have closed the account, saving both the annual and monthly fees.  
What happened
In 2017, Mr C opened a CashPlus account, adding an I Draft (a chargeable overdraft facility) 
a few months later, with an annual charge of £20. Further fees are then chargeable when the 
I Draft was used. 
In December 2019 Mr C complained as he was unhappy, he hadnt been notified about the 
annual fee on the account October that year. He said, had hed been notified in good time, 
hed have closed the account before the fee was due. Mr C said hed been notified of the 
charge in previous years. 
Mr C said CashPlus had refunded £6.20 to his account, and told him that hed waived his 
rights to refer his concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service as the payments had been 
in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Mr C closed the account in January 2020. And as he no longer had access to the account, 
he asked CashPlus to provide him with copies of statements. But, as CashPlus were going 
to charge Mr C to make a subject access request (SAR) - Mr C brought his complaint to our 
Service.
Mr C wants CashPlus to refund the charges on the account from October 2019, and pay 
£60, to compensate him for the time hed spent sorting the issue out, and any costs incurred.
In their response, CashPlus said the annual fee, had been charged in the same way as the 
previous two years. This was in line with the terms and conditions of the I Draft product, 
which had been agreed and signed by Mr C when he opened the account. 
CashPlus said they didnt provide customers with alerts, and if they were to send a 
notification, it was done as a matter of courtesy, and customers should monitor their 
statements via the online service area. CashPlus, said Mr C had continued to make 
payments into the account until 23 December, when he contacted them. They didnt feel they 
should refund any of the charges. 
Our investigator was of the same view as CashPlus, in as much as they didnt need to notify 
Mr C about fees on the account. The information relating to the fees was available to Mr C 
when he accessed his online statements, and he would have been made aware of the fees 
when hed signed up to the I Draft. The investigator did however think CashPlus were wrong 
to have told Mr C he would have to pay for a SAR, and felt they should compensate Mr C 
with £75, for giving him incorrect information. 
CashPlus didnt agree with our investigator, saying they had no record of Mr C being told 
hed have to pay for the SAR. CashPlus said, regardless of this, the investigators recommendation of £75 was too high for a single piece of misinformation being given during 
a call. 
As CashPlus didnt agree with the investigators view, Mr Cs complaint was given to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
CashPlus fees 
I can see from the Cashplus website, and the pre contract information, its clear there are 
fees associated with the accounts additional products, such as the annual fee for the I Draft. 
Mr C would also have received statements every month to the online inbox for the account, 
showing the total amount borrowed, the minimum payment, and the total amount of fees. 
From statements provided by CashPlus, I can also see that Mr C continued to use the 
account, including the I Draft facility, so its reasonable to believe, Mr C knew there were 
charges applied for this service, that he was contractually obliged to pay them. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied CashPlus did enough to make Mr C aware there 
were charges for the account, and for the I Draft facility. And were not obliged to notify him 
each year. Because of this, it wouldnt be fair to ask CashPlus to do anymore, or ask them to 
refund the fees. 
Subject access request. (SAR)
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says, in most circumstances, an organisation 
should provide a copy of the consumers personal information free of charge. But they can 
charge a reasonable fee, if the request is manifestly unfounded or excessive. The SAR can 
be made verbally although the ICO recommends the request is made in writing.
Our investigator asked CashPlus about their process for SARs, and, although this was 
included in Mr Cs original complaint, I havent seen any response from CashPlus regarding 
this. The business have provided a screen shot of the information sent to Mr C, but as Ive 
not been able to listen to Mr Cs call to CashPlus,  as its not been provided. Based on what 
Ive seen, and what Mr C has told us, and without having anything to dispute this, I have no 
reason to doubt Mr C was told there would be a charge for the SAR.
Theres no evidence to suggest Mr Cs request was excessive, or unfounded. So based on 
what the ICO says, when Mr C made the request, it shouldve been actioned, without 
charge.
Referral rights 
Mr C has told us CashPlus had said hed waived his right to bring his complaint to our 
service, by accepting the payment of £6.20 as a full and final settlement to his complaint. 
Again, as Ive not been able to listen to Mr Cs call to the business, and without having 
anything to dispute this, I have no reason to doubt Mr Cs recollection of what was said. If 
CashPlus did say this, then it wasnt quite correct; the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  section DISP 1.5.4 sets out what a firms required to explain when it believes its 
resolved a complaint.
That said, I accept this doesnt appear to have deterred Mr C from bringing his complaint to 
our service, and I can see CashPlus have then referred to Mr Cs referral rights in their final 
response letter. So, Im satisfied this hasnt impacted Mr C negatively. 
For the reasons I have given Im going to partially uphold Mr Cs complaint, and direct 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as CashPlus) to compensate Mr C £75, for 
the time and trouble to which it put him by apparently providing the incorrect information 
regarding the SAR and his right to be referred to our service. 
Putting things right
Im partially upholding Mr C complaint, and direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as CashPlus), to compensate Mr C with £75, for the time and trouble taken 
addressing the issues surrounding the SAR. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr C complaint, and direct Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as CashPlus), to compensate Mr C with £75, for the time and trouble taken 
addressing the issues surrounding the SAR. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman