DRN-4379845
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his account without notice or explanation. 
He would like an apology and compensation.
What happened
Mr R had accounts with HSBC. In March 2022 he found that he could no longer use his 
accounts. He was told they were under review, and he wouldnt be able to access the funds 
in them. He attempted to switch out the account, but this was blocked by HSBC.
In June 2022 HSBC then wrote to Mr R to say they were closing his account with immediate 
effect. They sent him a cheque for the remaining balance. 
Mr R raised a complaint with HSBC, but the bank responded to say they didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. They said the account had been inhibited in line with their statutory 
requirements, which meant they also couldnt carry out the switch. They pointed to the terms 
of their account, and said they were not obliged to provide a reason for the closure. 
Unhappy with this answer Mr R referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened but didnt think HSBC had done anything unfair or 
unreasonable. Mr R asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint and the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the file, I felt that the block and closure were reasonable, but it seemed 
HSBC probably could have released Mr Rs funds sooner than they did. I suggested to 
HSBC that it would be fairest to pay 8% on these funds for this delay. They agreed to do 
this. I put this to Mr R and explained this was a fair outcome but did not receive a response. 
As such Im now proceeding to my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right to say HSBC, like all banks and regulated financial businesses in the UK, have legal 
and regulatory requirements to meet when providing accounts to their customers. This can 
mean that on occasion they need to review account activity, to better understand how their 
customer are using their accounts. This can also mean they need to prevent any further 
transactions while they do. There is provision for that in the terms of Mr Rs account. 
HSBC are under no obligation to discuss the reasons for the review with Mr R and have 
declined to do so here. That isnt unreasonable in itself. But they have given this information 
to our service. Our rules allow us to treat evidence such as this in confidence, so it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to detail it here. But Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HSBC to 
review Mr Rs accounts, and to block any further transactions while they do so. This was in 
line with their legal and regulatory obligations.
Similarly, HSBC dont have to explain their reason for deciding to close an account, so long 
as they do so in line with the terms. Ive reviewed what the terms say about when HSBC can 
close an account without further notice, and Im satisfied that they apply here. Ive no doubt 
Mr R was disappointed to suddenly find that he couldnt access his funds, and later to have 
his account closed. But I havent seen anything to suggest HSBC were unreasonable in 
doing so. As such, Im not asking them to do anything further in this regard.
Ive also considered whether HSBC should have allowed Mr R to switch his account out. But 
Im satisfied that as the account was blocked in line with their obligations, it wouldnt have 
been appropriate to allow the switch to go through. As such, I dont see that HSBC have 
been unreasonable in denying this, and I wouldnt look to compensate Mr R for it not going 
through.
That said, from what Ive seen HSBCs review was completed by 22 April 2022. But it wasnt 
until 10 June 2022 that they issued a cheque for the balances Mr R held. Any review should 
be done within a reasonable timescale, and HSBC should allow the consumer access to 
their funds as quickly as possible after any review is completed. HSBC havent been able to 
explain why there was such a delay, so Im satisfied it wasnt reasonable to be holding Mr 
Rs funds during this time.
As Mr R didnt have use of these funds during this time, I consider it fair for HSBC to pay 8% 
simple interest per annum on this amount during the period of this delay. This is the 
represent the lost opportunities from being deprived of these funds and is also in line with 
the debt judgements a court would typically award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay Mr R 8% simple interest per annum on 
the total value of his funds between 22 April 2022 and 10 June 2022. If HSBC consider that 
HMRC require tax be deducted from this interest amount, they should provide Mr R with a 
certificate showing how much was deducted, should he ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman