DRN-2620805
The complaint
Mr I complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has settled a claim he made on his 
contents insurance policy for his wifes lost jewellery.
Mr I has been represented in bringing this complaint by Mrs I. But as Mr I is the policyholder, 
Ive treated all actions and comments as being those of Mr I.  
What happened
Mr I made a claim to Aviva for lost items of jewellery; two rings and a bracelet, that belonged 
to his wife, Mrs I. Aviva accepted the claim and said it could replace the items, so it offered 
£1,770 in vouchers to be used at high street jewellers, or alternatively a cash settlement of 
around £840. 
Mr I complained to Aviva about the amounts offered, he didnt think it was enough to reflect 
the value of the items. He also wasnt satisfied with the vouchers, he said he wasnt aware 
this was a way for Aviva to settle the claim. Aviva didnt agree to change its mind so Mr I 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva needed to anything more to settle the claim. He thought 
Avivas valuation of the jewellery was fair based on the limited information it had. But he 
didnt think Aviva had been clear with about how the claim would be settled. He thought this 
had caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience, so recommended Aviva pay £100 
compensation for this.
Aviva accepted what our investigator said, but Mr I didnt. He said hed previously had the 
items valued for higher amounts so the settlement figure was too low. And he thought the 
shops where Mrs I could use the vouchers were too far from her home. 
As Mr I didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything differently. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr I; Ive explained why below.
Mrs Is policy says Aviva can choose to settle claims by
 replacing;
 reinstating;
 repairing;
 payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent
available in the current market. If we are able to replace property, but we agree to
make a cash settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the
item as if it were new.
Having reviewed Mr Is claim, Aviva thought the items could be replaced. Providing vouchers 
for high street stores enables Mrs I to choose a suitable replacement. I accept that vouchers 
arent specifically mentioned in the policy, but it is common for insurers to offer these where 
items can be replaced. And its not unreasonable for it to do so provided the jewellery can be 
replaced for the value of the voucher. 
Mr I can choose a cash settlement for the items if he wants to. But according to the policy 
terms, for items that can be replaced, Aviva is only required to pay cash based on the cost to 
them, as an insurer, of replacing those items. The cash settlement offer is lower than the 
voucher amount because Aviva receives a discount with high street jewellers for the 
vouchers. So what Aviva offers as a cash settlement is what it would pay for the vouchers. 
Whilst Mr I is able to choose a cash settlement instead, it doesnt mean Aviva has to pay the 
full value of the vouchers in cash. 
Mr I has said the vouchers can only be redeemed at stores that are a long journey away 
from his home. But Mr I would have the option to return any unsatisfactory items if he bought 
them online. So Im not persuaded that Aviva has acted unfairly in its proposal to settle the 
claim.
Mr I has said the items were previously valued at much higher amounts and the bracelet 
alone was worth £2,000. Aviva valued it at £1,100 based on it being a 9ct bracelet with four 
charms. I havent seen anything to suggest this offer isnt fair based on the information 
provided. Mr I says the bracelet is around 50 years old, so I understand its difficult to 
provide any information relating to the purchase. But Aviva has given the option of providing 
photographs or any valuations that may have been carried out over the years, and no further 
information has been provided to show Avivas offer being too low.
Mr I has said that Mrs I had previously sent the valuation documents to Aviva many years 
ago, but based on what Ive seen I dont think thats likely. Aviva has explained it didnt ask 
for proof of valuation of items when the policy was taken out, it would only do this in the 
event of a claim. So I dont think Aviva has had any other information to use other than the 
description given by Mrs I. 
Ive also looked at the valuations for the two rings that were claimed for, and I havent seen 
anything which suggests the amounts offered by Aviva were too low. One of the rings was 
bought more recently, around ten years ago. Mr I says this was bought for about £40, Aviva 
has valued it at £120. I havent seen anything which suggests this is unfair.
I sympathise with Mr I as items can hold such sentimental value that cant be replaced. But 
having looked at the policy terms and Avivas assessment Im satisfied its made a 
reasonable offer based on the information it had.Aviva accepts it could have explained things better during the claim. And its agreed to pay 
£100 compensation to reflect any unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
thats reasonable for any misinformation, but I dont agree Avivas offer is unfair so it doesnt 
need to pay anything other than the £100.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr I £100 compensation for 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman