DRN-2977437
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) declined a claim under their home insurance policy, which they say was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to NFU when a contractor caused a heating oil leak at their 
property. Prior to this they had informed NFU of improvement works they were undertaking. 
This resulted in amendments being made to their policy for the period of works.  
Initially Mr and Mrs M understood the contractor was taking responsibility for the damage 
and associated costs. However, after waiting four weeks and with no sign of a resolution 
they contacted NFU. 
NFU declined the claim. It says it explained the exclusions that applied when Mr and Mrs M 
informed it of the building work they were undertaking. It says the exclusions were 
communicated over the telephone and in its amended policy documentation. NFU says the 
exclusions meant any damage caused by the contractors wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs M say they were shocked that having taken advice from NFU their claim wasnt 
covered.
One of our investigators looked into this and decided not to uphold the complaint. He 
concluded that NFU had relied on valid exclusions set out in the amended policy. He said Mr 
and Mrs M were made aware of the changes and the policy had been agreed on a non-
advised basis. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as 
a disappointment for Mr and Mrs M, but I will explain why I think this is fair.
Prior to renovations work being carried out at Mr and Mrs Ms property, they contacted NFU 
to let it know what was happening. This follows the terms of their policy, which say, You 
must tell us before: Any building extensions or refurbishments are carried out (other than 
normal redecoration). 
The company decided to make several endorsements to the policy as a result of the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs M. NFU then sent a new policy schedule in June 2020 
setting out these changes to the policy. It says: 
Use of Heat: WE do not cover DAMAGE or liability caused by fire unless the contractor is in 
agreement to comply with the following conditions: Before commencement of the work:
1. The contractor should appoint an employee who is responsible for fire safety and to 
ensure that any necessary precautions are taken before granting permission for the work to 
commence.
2. All the contractor's employees should be made aware of the location of any fire alarms 
and any fire fighting equipment.
3. The contractor or appointed employee should examine all property close to and including 
the location of the works to ensure no combustible material is in danger of ignition either 
directly or indirectly by the action of heat.
4. The immediate area should be cleared of any movable and/or combustible materials to a 
distance of at least 2 metres from the point of heat application. Any combustible material 
which cannot be removed must be covered and fully protected by screens constructed of 
non-combustible material.
During the work:
1. The lighting of any heat equipment must be undertaken in accordance with the 
manufacturer's instructions and no lighted equipment should be left unattended.
2. The contractor should arrange for an employee to work alongside the operative(s) using 
the equipment, to reduce the likelihood of an outbreak of fire. In the event of a fire the 
appointed employee should have access to a fire extinguisher.
3. Any gas cylinders not required for immediate use should be kept outside the building 
where the work is taking place and located at least 5 metres from the point of the application 
of heat.
Completion of the work
1. An examination of the immediate area should be carried out one hour after the work has 
finished.
Mr and Mrs M queried why the amended terms (above) go into so much detail about what 
the contractors must do when using heat. They say this doesnt make sense if the intention 
was to exclude all cover for any damage caused by the contractors. This is shown in the 
term below:
WE do not cover DAMAGE or liability arising directly or indirectly out of the activities of the 
contractors
The damage occurred when Mr and Mrs Ms contractor spilt a large quantity of heating oil. 
The cause of the damage isnt something that is in dispute between the parties. And this 
term clearly says the policy doesnt cover damage caused by the activities of contractors, 
which is the basis on which NFU declined the claim. 
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ms concerns NFU says the hot works warranty is a standard 
risk management wording that it applies to all works cases. It says it doesnt believe this is 
contradictory to the contractors exclusion.
I have thought carefully about the what the policy terms say, and whether it was fair for NFU 
to decline the claim based on this exclusion.
Mr and Mrs M were proactive in letting NFU know about the upcoming works. It was 
appropriate for them to do this, as its a requirement of their policy. They completed a 
questionnaire and answered questions about the renovation work over the phone. They 
were then told, both over the phone and in the revised policy schedule, that endorsements had been applied to their policy by NFUs underwriters. The changes were to apply for the 
period of the renovations. 
I understand the point Mr and Mrs M are making. They cant understand why NFU set out 
conditions if no cover was in place for any damage their contractors were responsible for.  
But regardless of the conditions relating to heat works, the policy terms are clear that any 
damage arising from the activities of the contractors is excluded. Based on the information I 
have seen this exclusion was made clear to Mr and Mrs M in the policy information supplied. 
It was also made clear during the telephone conversations between Mr M and NFU. I think 
NFU acted fairly in communicating this point.     
Mis-advice
Mr and Mrs M say that NFU mis-advised them when they made contact about the renovation 
works. They contacted the company to ensure their building insurance policy would cover 
any issues that occurred during their renovation work. But based on the advice given by 
NFU, they ended up with inadequate cover.   
I have listened to the call recordings between Mr M and NFU. They discuss the renovation 
work and the underwriters requirements. NFU explained its underwriters need to update the 
policy, because of the work being done, and the changes are read out over the phone to Mr 
M. This includes the conditions regarding any heat works and the exclusion clause for any 
damage arising from the contractors activities. 
Mr M comments that with all the clauses being applied he felt like he didnt have insurance. 
He also queried the need for the conditions to be applied. From this I think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mr M was aware of the conditions being applied to the policy, as he 
challenged the need for this. He subsequently agreed to the new terms having been made 
aware of the contractor exclusion.  
I have looked at the policy documents Mr and Mrs M received when they initially agreed their 
home insurance with NFU in August 2019. This says:
Your new insurance documents are enclosed. As this is a non-advised policy, we haven't 
provided you with a recommendation, so please read the documents carefully to make sure 
the details are right and the cover meets your needs.    
From the above, no advice was given to Mr and Mrs M when the policy was taken out. 
Meaning information was provided by NFU about the policy, but it was for them to decide 
whether this was suitable for their needs. 
I have looked at whether advice was given later. Although Mr and Mrs M believe they were 
given advice when telling NFU about the renovations, I havent seen evidence that this was 
the case. The terms of their policy require NFU to be informed of any works. Mr and Mrs M 
did this and the underwriters made amendments to the policy to acknowledge the risk posed. 
I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs M find themselves in. But its clear the damage 
was caused by their contractor. They agreed an amendment to the policy to exclude this as 
an insured event. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs M have asked for any added premiums to be refunded. I understand 
they believe additional premiums were charged because of the renovations works, and they 
are unhappy to have paid this when their claim wasnt covered. NFU has supplied a record of the premiums paid from 2019 to date. I cannot see that the 
premium was increased in relation to the renovation works. It does show the loss of a no 
claims discount in September 2020, relating to the claim that was made. But the records 
show the discount was reapplied four months later. 
Having considered all of this, I think NFU has shown it communicated the policy exclusions 
clearly and acted fairly in relying on the policy terms when declining the claim for damage 
caused by the contractor. I dont think it has been shown that advice was given or that 
premiums were increased. So, I cant reasonably ask the company to do more to resolve the 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman