DRN-3237978
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr S complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to his account. He 
said hed been experiencing financial difficulties and the charges had made things worse. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr S was dissatisfied, he referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that he thought 
Santander ought to have realised that Mr S was experiencing difficulties by 1 January 2015 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt agree, but it did offer to refund charges applied between January 2020 and 
April 2020. Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders offer, so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators findings that 
Santander acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees 
after 1 January 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr S was at significant 
risk of financial difficulties and so might struggle to repay his overdraft. 
I say this because by this point, Mr S was hardcore borrowing. In other words he hadnt seen 
or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Santanders own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. So I think that Mr Ss overdraft usage should have prompted Santander to have 
realised that Mr S wasnt using his overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As Santander didnt react to Mr Ss overdraft usage and 
instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ss account from 1 January 2015.
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after 1 January 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mr Ss credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 
2015. Santander can also reduce Mr Ss overdraft limit by the amount of the 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
Mr S over his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Ss overdraft limit by the amount of the refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman