DRN-3749014
The complaint
Mr V says hes lost out as a result of Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
taking on his defined benefit (DB) pension from the Trustees of his former scheme. Amongst 
other matters, he says it couldnt confirm his benefits had been subject to proper 
equalisation. He says the plan now in place was mis-sold to him.
What happened
Mr V was a member of a DB scheme and accrued nearly two and a half years of benefits 
while in service with his employer. These comprised two elements; a Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP) because the business he worked for had opted out of the State Earning 
Related Pension Scheme; and an amount based on the length of his pensionable service 
and final pensionable earnings.
A decision was taken to close the DB scheme Mr V was a member of, presumably by his 
employer and the Trustees. As winding-up of the scheme approached the Trustees wrote to 
him in August 1998 in the following terms:
Payments to the above pension scheme have been discontinued and the scheme is in the 
course of being wound-up. In accordance with the schemes trust deed the trustees have 
made arrangements for you to be provided with an annuity payable by Legal & General 
Assurance Society limited. This annuity replaces your previous entitlement to benefits from 
the pension scheme and fully reflects the provisions of the scheme in accordance with the 
rules.
The appendix to the letter set out the guaranteed benefits Mr V would receive from June 
2025 when he reached 65, which had been his former schemes normal retirement date 
(NRD). This indicated he was entitled to receive £3,237 per year, payable in monthly 
instalments. The appendix confirmed annual increases in retirement for the GMP element of 
his pension. It also provided for death benefits.
Mr V has raised several concerns about what happened to his deferred DB pension. This 
includes against the regulated firm which was contracted by the Trustees of the former 
scheme to support the winding-up process. Hes also complained to L&G about its 
involvement. L&G refuted the points he raised.
Mr V approached this Service in November 2021. He set out his concerns in the following 
terms:
Following the recent high court judgment on Guaranteed Minimum Pensions in 2018 and 
the final judgement (Lloyds Bank Group Trustees and Lloyds Bank PLC)I requested Legal 
& General to confirm if my defined benefits scheme had been properly equalised. The lender 
stated in a letter dated 21/5/2021 that my DB pension was a bulk transfer and it was the 
responsibility of the Trustees to equalise my pension prior to entering into the agreement 
with Legal & General.
Following further investigations, I found out that only part of my pension had been equalised 
and the excess GMP did not have any equalisation or even a Retail Prices increase over the 
years since 1993.I believed that I had been given an annuity that had been properly 
equalised and I feel that my pension had been mis-sold when it was transferred over to the 
Legal & General Scheme.
I tried claiming against the trustees broker (Professional Insurance Services) for mis-selling 
but was told by the FSCS that I should ask questions about the Legal & Generals 
involvement in setting up what I thought was an annuity but what I am now being told is a 
bulk buyout. The value of the pension makes it worthless and I believe that I am owed 
compensation particularly in respect of the excess GMP which should have had annual RPI 
increases as part of the GMP equalisation.
I am being told by the Legal & General that I will only receive a pension that is less than the 
original documentation provided to me at the time of the Bulk buyout. I also had a heart 
attack in 2014 and am not sure if I am eligible for an enhanced pension because of this. I 
believe that I have been misled by the Legal & General on the true value of my pension and 
feel that I have not been able to make an informed decision before entering into this Legal & 
General Scheme.
During his journey with this Service, Mr V extended his complaint to include matters such as 
L&Gs refusal for him to be able to make contributions to his pension. He pointed to policy 
booklets which said hed be able to do so. He raised a concern about changes to the transfer 
value of his benefits quoted by L&G at different times. He was also confused about whether 
he had an annuity with L&G or something different. As he was fast approaching retirement 
he needed clarity on these matters and what his options were.
L&G disagreed with Mr Vs position. It summarised its response in the following terms:
The entitlement Mr V holds under [his policy] is an occupational defined benefit pension that 
was secured with Legal & General as part of a bulk purchase agreement. It was secured by 
the former Trustees of [his DB scheme] and relates to his service within the Scheme 
between 06 April 1991 and 01 September 1993. Members would not have been provided 
with any advice about this buyout and no sales process was undertaken. Policy documents 
would have been issued when the entitlement was secured with us but, due to the time that 
has passed, we dont hold a copy of this.
Due to the nature of the entitlement it is not possible that any commission could have been 
paid to an advisor as it was not sold to Mr V, it was secured on his behalf by the former 
Trustees.
Mr V hasnt raised any complaints with us about a pension transfer. He also doesnt 
appear to have contacted us about the entitlement since November 2021. The entitlement is 
held on a closed basis, as the original Scheme was closed before it was wound up, and so 
we do not permit members to transfer in. We have provided Mr V with four transfer 
quotations in recent yearsThese transfer values were actuarially calculated and were 
guaranteed for a period of three months due to their variability. Our transfer quotation letters 
confirm that the values will change if recalculated and can go up or down. The figures 
quoted were correct at the point they were calculated and issued
An Investigator considered Mr Vs complaint. He didnt uphold it because he considered it 
had been the responsibility of the Trustees of his former DB scheme to ensure the benefits 
he was entitled to under his former scheme were purchased from L&G in the arrangement it 
made. More broadly he didnt find L&G had done anything wrong.
Mr V disagreed with the Investigator. He considered his reference to the Lloyds Bank court 
case had been misinterpreted. He thought the conclusion the Trustees of his former scheme 
were responsible for ensuring the GMP equalisation was taken into account was at odds 
with the position of the Financial Service Compensation Scheme (FSCS) on the matter. Hed 
made a claim to it about the firm which had provided support to the Trustees in the transfer process. In its response to his claim it had noted L&G had a question to answer about 
whether it checked if his pension benefits had been equalised before agreeing to the bulk 
purchase.
Mr V also concluded the Investigator should have considered the FCA checklist for 
consumers about suitability of advice received in relation to the transfer of DB pensions and 
guidance to firms about redress for such. He noted the role in 1998 of the Trustees of his 
former DB scheme, the business contracted to support the transfer process and L&G. He 
asserted none of these organisations provided him with the information he required to make 
an informed decision about whether or not to enter into the new pension arrangement. Mr V 
also made reference regulatory provisions we must operate within.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Vs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to issue a decision. This is the final 
stage of our dispute resolution process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The 
FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known 
as DISP or the DISP rules). I agree with the Investigator when he concluded we cant look 
into those aspects of Mr Vs complaint which relate to the administration of his former DB 
scheme. DISP 1.1.9(2) says:
The scope of this sourcebook does not include:
(2) a complaint about the administration of an occupational pension scheme, because this is 
not a regulated activity (firms should refer complainants to the Pensions Ombudsman rather 
than to the Financial Ombudsman Service.'
Ill now turn to the complaint points Mr V has raised about L&G.
The matter of equalisation
Equalisation stems from the European law principle of equal pay for equal work, which has 
also been adopted into UK legislation. Because GMPs are paid by occupational pension schemes, they are a reward for work and therefore there is a duty to pay them on an equal 
basis between men and women. This duty only arises in respect of GMPs accrued since 17 
May 1990. This is the date from which European law requires employment-based pension 
benefits to accrue on an equal basis for men and women.
In responding to the Investigators view and referring to an extract from his communication 
with the FSCS about his claim against the firm which worked with the Trustees of his former 
DB scheme he said:
The FSCS statement clearly puts your decision at odds with the conclusion that the Legal & 
General did not have some responsibility to check and ensure that the Bulk Transfer benefits 
were properly equalized before the bulk transfer was made. They had a clear responsibility 
to check that the GMP benefits were properly equalized from the transferring schemeto 
the receiving scheme (L&G Bulk Transfer scheme). If it was not, as the Legal & General and 
the FOS seem to be accepting, then the Legal & General are negligent for their acts and 
omissions and therefore I should be entitled to a top up as defined by the Lloyds Bank 
legislation. I do not see that you have provided any evidence to confirm that the Legal & 
General undertook due diligence of the bulk transfer that would not be detrimental to the 
member before entering into the bulk transfer. The FOS have therefore clearly not 
investigated this particular act and omission by the Legal & General thoroughly.
Of course this matter isnt straight-froward. A quarter of a century has passed since Mr Vs 
DB entitlements were bought-out. There are several parties involved. And the legislative 
backdrop on pensions has been dynamic. There are gaps in the evidence.
There are a number of elements to Mr Vs argument on GMP equalisation. And he seems to 
have faced both ways on the matter. When he brought his complaint to this Service he said:
Following further investigations, I found out that only part of my pension had been 
equalised and the excess GMP did not have any equalisation or even a Retail Prices 
increase over the years since 1993
This implies he had discovered that the GMP element of his pension had been equalised. 
His focus was on the second element of his pension. But his response to the Investigator 
some months later indicated doubt about the approach taken on his GMP element also.
I note that L&Gs responses to Mr V on this matter havent provided certainty. For example, 
in its letter to him from 21 May 2021 it told him:
Prior to securing benefits with us the former Trustees of the Scheme should have 
undertaken to ensure benefits were equalised between men and women in accordance with 
the guidelines in place at that time. We have reviewed the benefits which were secured for 
you under the [bulk purchase annuity agreement] and can confirm changes to payments as 
a result of GMP equalisation is not something that the Trustees insured with us under any 
policy.
Mr V took this to mean a GMP equalisation exercise hadnt taken place. But that wasnt what 
L&G had meant, as it confirmed in its final response to his complaint of 11 November 2021:
I disagree with your interpretation of my letter of 21 May 2021. I believe the former Trustees 
of the Scheme ensured that the benefits available within the Scheme were equalised in 
accordance with the guidelines in place at the time of the Scheme buy-out
Mr Vs question about whether his pension benefits have been properly assessed according 
to regulatory requirements, specifically around the GMP is not unreasonable. Indeed, it is 
deeply unsatisfactory that none of the parties involved, their representatives or associates 
can provide definitive evidence on this point, at this time.The role of trustees of occupational pension schemes is rightly heavily regulated. Many of 
their duties arise from trust law. Their powers derive from the trust deed and rules of a given 
scheme. The main fiduciary duties of trustees include:
-Acting in line with the trust deed and rules
-Acting in the best interests of the scheme beneficiaries
-Acting impartially
-Acting prudently, responsibly and honestly
Individual trustees of a pension scheme are selected according to their ability to meet these 
exacting requirements. I dont need to make a finding about how the Trustees of Mr Vs 
scheme acted, this complaint isnt against them, indeed it would be outside my ambit. 
Nevertheless, its useful to reflect on how likely or not it was that Mr Vs Trustees and its 
advisers wouldnt have taken into account such an important matter of regulation like 
equalisation when preparing to wind-up the scheme. 
Some schemes may have been putting off equalising GMPs prior to the Lloyds Banking 
Group Pensions Trustees Limited v Lloyds Bank plc and others [2019] EWHC 2839 (ch) (28 
October 2018) (Lloyds) case, due to uncertainty around methodology and the practical 
difficulties of calculation and administration. But theres an argument an event like winding-
up a scheme shouldve crystalised matters like this. It shouldve been dealt with as part of 
the process.
What the Lloyds decision makes clear is that the trustees of pension schemes with GMPs 
have been under a legal duty for many years to adjust benefits to address the inherent 
inequalities between men and women. And given this responsibility and the regulatory 
requirements on trustees to carry out their fiduciary responsibilities, it seems more likely than 
not the Trustees of Mr Vs scheme wouldve done so.
We have a position where Mr V started his journey with this Service indicating he thought the 
GMP element of his pension had been equalised. He now appears to consider the matter an 
open question. On the other hand L&G assert that the former Trustees wouldve provided for 
such in the arrangement it made. Unfortunately neither party is able to provide telling 
evidence either way. But its clear the onus was on the Trustees of Mr Vs DB scheme to 
have sorted this matter out prior to its winding-up.
On balance, given the information available to me at this time, I dont think I could conclude 
equalisation of his GMP hasnt taken place. Further, even if this hadnt been the case, Ive 
thought about where responsibility rested for ensuring this matter had been properly catered 
for. And Ive concluded the onus was on the Trustees of his DB scheme to ensure it entered 
into a contract with L&G which met the undertaking they had given members to pay benefits 
under the new arrangement which wouldve been due under the former scheme.
As an aside, I note Mr Vs view that the response he received from the FSCS to his claim 
against the firm which he believes provided advice services and which supported the 
Trustees of his former DB scheme as it moved towards winding-up, places this Services 
position at odds with the FSCS. He says this provides the basis for a Judicial Review if this 
Service fails to reconsider its position.
In its letter to Mr V of 25 October 2021 rejecting his request for the re-opening of his claim, in 
one paragraph of its response the FSCS said:Regarding the Trustee responsibility for GMP Equalisation, Legal & General confirmed in its 
letter of 21 May 2021 that it was the Trustees responsibility to ensure benefits were 
equalised. This would not have been the responsibility of the Firm. I believe there is a 
question to be asked of Legal & General which is  should it have checked the benefits had 
been equalised before agreeing the bulk purchase annuity. I believe this is a question that 
could be raised directly with Legal & General
So, I disagree with Mr Vs reading of FSCSs communication. It didnt arrive at a conclusion 
about L&Gs role, responsibilities and what it should or shouldnt have done. It suggested Mr 
V pose a question to L&G, which he did and to which it responded.
Turning next to the element of Mr Vs DB pension that related to his reckonable service and 
earnings, which was his main cause for concern when he approached this Service.
When a member of a final salary pension scheme leaves having completed at least two 
years of service, they become entitled to a preserved pension in respect of the benefits 
accrued during their membership of the scheme. The preserved benefit remains in the 
scheme until the member retires, dies or decides to transfer the benefit elsewhere.
In order to prevent the value of a preserved benefit diminishing over time through the effect 
of inflation, revaluation was introduced to preserved benefits. The benefits earned and the 
revaluation applied is dependent on the rules of the pension scheme and the legislation in 
place at the time.
The Social Security Act 1985 introduced revaluation of preserved benefits in excess of GMP 
earned after 1 January 1985. At the time there was a requirement for five years reckonable 
service to qualify, but this was reduced to two years with effect from April 1988. The Social 
Security Act 1990 extended revaluation to cover the whole of a members pension, in excess 
of the GMP. The annual increase applicable was the retail price index (RPI), capped at 5%.
As we know, Mr V only accrued 2 full years of reckonable service in the DB scheme between 
1991 and 1993. So, it seems he didnt qualify for increases to this element of his pension 
through statutory provision. Ive also reviewed the available terms and conditions of his DB 
pension policy. These dont go into the detail Id like, but Ive not seen anything which makes 
me think he enjoyed entitlements that went beyond those required in law.
Mr V received information from the Trustees of his former DB scheme in November 1997, 
December 1997 and November 1998 about the benefits he would receive after the DB 
scheme was wound-up and replaced with his new pension arrangement.
Taken together, this wouldve made him aware the total value of what was called his annuity 
with L&G would be about £3,237 when he reached his NRD. He would also have seen 
£1,108 of this related to his GMP. And that the value of this element reflected it had received 
a 7% compound annual increase until he reached 65. And would attract a 3% compound 
annual increase in retirement. 
There was scant information concerning the balancing figure of £2,129  what this related to, 
nor why it wouldnt enjoy any revaluations in deferment or after retirement. Based on the 
evidence available to me, this is a weakness in the information he received from the 
Trustees, the adviser firm they used and L&G. And prime responsibility for this rests with the 
Trustees.
In 1998 Mr V was informed he would receive annual pension benefits in retirement in 2025 
of around £3,237. More recently L&G has confirmed he will receive about £3,205. On 11 
February 2020 it explained to him why there was a small discrepancy between the figures:I have looked into the documentation enclosed with your previous email and it appears the 
benet quoted is incorrect. The statement issued in 1998 incorrectly overstates your GMP 
entitlement. This element was secured within the Group Policy as £132.08 per year set to 
revalue at a xed rate of 7.0% per full tax year. This will result in a GMP at your NRD of 
£1,075.80 per year. Your remaining pension is made up of a non-increasing, non-revaluing, 
element of £2,128.69 per year. I have checked the historic records we hold and these 
conrm the gures I have given above are correct. I am sorry for any disappointment this 
may cause.
I can appreciate Mr Vs frustration that the figures provided by L&G were lower than he had 
been led to expect over the previous two decades. As the difference was £32 a year, I cant 
conclude hes suffered material impact as a result of this adjustment. Hes only entitled to 
what the Trustees of his former DB scheme contracted to with L&G to provide former 
members under the new arrangements.
In responding to the Investigators view, Mr V supplied a copy of an FCA checklist designed 
to help consumers understand if the advice theyd received to transfer their pensions 
benefits from a DB scheme was suitable. Hes also provided a copy of the FCA guidance to 
regulated firms about redress where they receive a complaint about advice they gave to 
transfer all or part of the cash value of accrued benefits under a DB pension scheme into a 
personal pension scheme.
Unfortunately for Mr V, I dont find these documents relevant to his case. Thats because the 
events that led to his DB benefits being provided by L&G dont appear to have been the 
result of an advised transfer. His scheme was being wound-up, so the Trustees approached 
L&G to provide a product which would provide equivalent benefits that members had 
accrued in the occupation pension scheme. In any event, whether Mr V received advice from 
the Trustees or any firm it employed to support members, Ive seen no evidence L&G 
provided such.
As Ive already set out, the Trustees of Mr Vs DB scheme were responsible for securing the 
benefits of scheme members, which he says hasnt been done properly. As this complaint is 
brought against L&G thats not a matter I would consider here. Nor indeed would it be within 
my ambit to do so, thats a matter outside of this Services jurisdiction.
Mr V was given the option of retaining the benefits hed accrued, through the new pension 
arrangement with L&G, or to take a cash equivalent transfer value and move to another 
pension provider. He opted for the former but he says he wasnt in a position to have made 
an informed decision. Again, I find that it was the responsibility of the Trustees and any firm 
it chose to put in place to support members through the process, to properly inform people 
about their choices.
Mr V raised the matter of not being able to make further contributions to his pension, as 
provided for in the terms and conditions of his DB scheme. He also says he wasnt informed 
at the time that it wouldn't be possible. 
I agree with the Investigator when he concluded the onus was on the Trustees of Mr Vs DB 
scheme to communicate with members about the implications and impacts of its being 
wound-up and the replacement arrangement. 
In my experience, its usual in such circumstances that the contract agreed with the insuring 
firm (in this case L&G) wouldnt provide for the ability to make further contributions. The 
former scheme was closed and the agreement made to provide equivalent accrued benefits 
only. And the documentation Mr V relies on related to the closed scheme.When Mr V approached this Service he noted certain medical history from 2014 which he 
thinks might make him eligible for an enhanced pension. It seems Mr V is referring to an 
enhanced annuity where someone may be entitled to increased pension benefits because a 
medical condition or lifestyle factor has affected their life expectancy. I think this is in part a 
confusion arising from the fact that the L&G pension has been referred to as an annuity.
Mr Vs pension with L&G is meant to provide for an equivalence of benefits he wouldve 
received from his DB scheme. Its not a personal pension and its not what most people 
would refer to as an annuity. In reviewing the policy documentation provided in relation to Mr 
Vs DB scheme, while provision for early retirement is set out (and replicated in the 
replacement arrangement), there doesnt seem to be any information about ill-health 
retirement.
I understand Mr V has yet to decide on how to take his benefits. His L&G policy provides 
certain guarantees and protections. It also enables him to retire before his NRD in 2025, 
although with an actuarially reduced pension. He has received information from L&G which 
details the early and ill-health arrangements attached to his pension. For example on 9 
September 2022, included with information about a transfer valuation quote on page 7 it 
says:
Early retirement: The member may commence their annuity at a reduced rate once they 
have attained the age of 55. Early retirement is based upon actuarial assumptions at the 
date of calculation and will only be made available providing GMP is covered.
Ill Health Early Retirement: The Member may commence their annuity at a reduced rate 
earlier than age 55 provided they satisfy the criteria stated in the Scheme Rules. Full details 
available on request. The basis for this option is as detailed in the Early Retirement section 
above.
Mr V could also transfer to another provider which could offer some flexibility in how he 
draws on his pension provision. Thats a matter for him to take financial advice on of course. 
But one option if he was thinking about moving might be to explore whether hed be able to 
purchase an enhanced annuity given his circumstances.
Finally, I turn to the matter of the transfer values which L&G has provided to Mr V over the 
past few years as he considers his retirement options. Hes concerned about the significant 
fluctuations in the quotes hes received, and in particular most recently on 9 September 2022 
where there was a significant decrease in the quote.
L&G has provided Mr V with at least five transfer values in recent years: £61,888 in February 
2020; £61,273 in May 2020; £69,219 in January 2021; £66,299 in November 2021; £44,008 
in September 2022.
Its clear the economy is currently experiencing particular pressures, including rising interest 
rates and high inflation. These factors inevitably feed into judgements actuaries make in 
arriving at what need to be fair transfer values. Thats why L&Gs quotes are guaranteed for 
a period of three months, after which theres a need for recalculation. The valuation 
statements Mr V has been provided explain this. I dont think its done anything wrong.
While I can appreciate the volatility in the transfer values quoted makes it difficult for Mr V to 
plan what he wants to do, he still has a couple of years to decide how he wants to proceed. 
He also has the assurance that irrespective of what happens in the economy, if he retains 
his pension with L&G his benefits enjoy guarantees and protections which are in place for 
life.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman