DRN-1501526
 
The complaint
Mr R says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Mr R took out a mortgage in 2000. In 2001 Mr R took out further lending and was sold a 
regular premium PPI policy to cover his mortgage repayments if he became unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he thought PPI was presented  
as optional and thought it wouldve provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr R disagrees he says he was told he had to take PPI to get the mortgage and he didnt 
need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The sale took place a number of years ago over the phone so unsurprisingly there is very 
little information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of 
what information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr R he had a choice in taking the policy and that it wasnt 
a condition of the mortgage. Mr R says he was told he couldnt get the mortgage at all 
unless I took this cover and put down a big deposit. It has been almost 20 years since the 
sale took place so its understandable that Mr R might not remember the exact details of the 
conversations had. But Mr R already had a mortgage in place for a number of months when 
he was sold the policy and this mortgage didnt have PPI cover. So I think it is likely he 
understood he didnt need cover to get an advance on the mortgage.
I also think it is noteworthy that Mr R only had cover for unemployment when often PPI 
covered you for accident and sickness as well. I think this suggests some sort of discussion 
about Mr Rs circumstances and needs and that as a result Mr R chose to take 
unemployment cover only, rather than the full package on offer.  
I can also see that the welcome pack sent out (including schedule of cover and payment 
information) refers to Mr R choosing to take out PPI.
So I think on balance - although Mr R might not remember this - PPI was discussed and 
recommended and Mr R chose to take it because he wanted the cover. If this wasnt the 
case I think Mr R wouldve questioned why he was sent out a welcome pack and paying for 
something he hadnt agreed to. 
Santander advised Mr R to take the policy. What this means is that Santander not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr R could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr Rs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr R for the following reasons:
Mr R was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr R says he had savings he could use and his partner was in receipt of two 
pensions which would help with his repayments if he became unemployed. But there 
is no guarantee that his partners pensions would be available to him and the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of his savings and covered him for up to 12 months if he lost 
his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr R in his circumstances 
especially considering he was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think he 
wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr R at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it. 
I also need to consider whether Santander gave Mr R information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Santander did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same 
reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr R has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given 
all the proper information.
Which means I dont think Santander has to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr R.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman