DRN-2884251
The complaint
Mr B complains about two separate credit card accounts he took out with NewDay Ltd. He 
says that both accounts were unaffordable, and NewDay irresponsibly lent to him.
  
What happened
Mr B has both an Aqua credit card and a Marbles credit card with NewDay. He complains 
about NewDays lending decision on both of these accounts. 
Aqua
Mr B applied for the Aqua credit card in April 2017. At the time of application, Mr B told 
NewDay that he was a contractor working part-time earning around £15,000 a year. He was 
given an initial credit limit of £250. NewDay then increased his credit limit on the following 
occasions:
September 2017 from £250 to £800.
September 2018 from £800 to £1550.
January 2019 from £1550 to £2550.
August 2019 from £2550 to £3000.
April 2020 from £3000 to £3900.
Mr B says when he first took out this credit card, he was undergoing a personal and financial 
crisis as a result of a gambling addiction. He says that if NewDay had checked his bank 
statements at the time, it would have been able to see this. 
Mr B has said that he was in extreme financial difficulties at the time  and his credit report 
reflected this. He says he had defaults on his credit report, as well as a number of payday 
loans. Mr B has said that the increases in his credit limit over time only added to his financial 
problems and when NewDay allowed some of the increases, he wasnt working and so 
couldnt afford to repay the balances.
NewDay looked into things for Mr B. It said that when it agreed to lend to him initially, it had 
checked information from the credit reference agencies, and while there was a defaulted 
account, this had happened over two years prior, and so it didnt think that based on the 
other information it had seen about Mr Bs credit history, that a limit of £250 was 
unaffordable to him. It went on to say that it checked how he had managed his account 
before agreeing to increase his limit. And he accepted the increase each time. But it said 
that it shouldnt have increased his limit when it did in January 2019 and so it refunded him 
£69.38, which it said was the interest he was due back. 
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr B, and they upheld Mr Bs complaint. The 
investigator didnt think that NewDays decision to increase Mr Bs limit from £800 to £1550 
in September 2018 was fair. They said that Mr B hadnt been able to show that he had been 
managing his account effectively up until this date, and he had been over the limit and made 
late payments on a number of occasions. They also found that Mr B had applied for another 
account with NewDay in this time, Mr Bs total debt had increased, and he had some payday 
loans. Because of this, they said NewDay should refund Mr B all interest charged above 
£800, from September 2018 to account closure, as well as refunding all over limit fees, late 
fees and cash advance charges. And it should pay Mr B 8% on any over payments he would 
have made  if there were any. 
Marbles
Mr B applied for this credit card account in April 2018 (one year after opening his Aqua credit 
card). At the time, he said he was employed and earning £12,00 a year, with an additional 
household income of £1,200. NewDay agreed to give Mr B a limit of £450. NewDay then 
increased his credit limit on the following occasions:
January 2019 from £450 to £1100.
May 2019 from £1100 to £1850.
January 2020 from £1850 to £2500.
March 2020 from £2500 to £3500.
Mr B says he had just started receiving benefits at the time he took out this card, and so 
NewDay should never have allowed him to have it. He said at this point, he was recovering 
from a gambling addiction and unable to manage his money effectively. He says he had a 
poor credit history and wasnt manging his Aqua account well at the time. 
NewDay looked into things for Mr B. It said that when it agreed to lend to him initially, it had 
checked information from the credit reference agencies, and while there was a defaulted 
account, this had happened more than two years prior to the application, and so it didnt 
think that based on the other information it had seen about Mr Bs credit history, that a limit 
of £450 was unaffordable to him. It went on to say that it checked how he had managed his 
account before agreeing to increase his limit. And he accepted the increase each time. But it 
said that it shouldnt have increased his limit when it did in January 2019 and so it refunded 
him £185.32 in what it said was the interest charges.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. They said that at point of application, Mr B was 
already using payday loans, his external debt was increasing, and his income had 
decreased from the year before. Given NewDay already had an awareness that his account 
conduct with Aqua was poor, its reasonable to suggest that they shouldve made further 
enquiries before approving his application. They said that had NewDay done extra checks, 
they would have seen that from March 2018, Mr B was no longer working and so his income 
had dropped. Based on everything, they thought that NewDays decision to lend to Mr B 
wasnt responsible. And so, they asked NewDay to remove all the interest and charges 
applied from April 2018, so that a new starting balance consisting of only the amount lent is 
left. The investigator also said NewDay should deduct any payments Mr B had already 
made. If this resulted in Mr B having paid too much, then any overpayments should be 
refunded, adding 8% simple interest. 
NewDay didnt agree to the findings of our investigator and insisted that the checks it had 
carried out had been appropriate and inline with what it needed to do. Our investigator 
continued to explain their rationale to NewDay, but NewDay requested a decision on the 
matter. And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, it is my decision to uphold Mr Bs complaint, and Ill explain my reasons for 
doing this below.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive considered this while deciding Mr Bs complaint. Having carefully considered 
everything provided, I think that there are three overarching questions that I need to consider 
in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.  
These questions are: 
Did NewDay carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay what he borrowed in a sustainable way at the time of each 
lending decision (in other words - when initially providing the card, then each time it 
increased the credit limit)? 
- If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have 
shown? 
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each additional advance in credit, 
was there a point where NewDay ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing 
Mr Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further credit? 
Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in some other way? 
I have considered these questions when coming to my decision on Mr Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations throughout NewDays lending relationship with Mr B required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay 
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
These checks needed to be borrower focussed and so NewDay needed to consider not 
only the likelihood of it getting its money back, but also whether repaying the credit would 
cause undue difficulties for Mr B.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the lending. 
Generally, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit involved.
For the initial lending decision on the credit cards, NewDay says that Mr B passed its 
affordability checks which were based on external credit bureau data and in line with 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines. It hasnt really provided the detail in relation 
to what these searches showed but it says Mr B had one account which had defaulted a 
number of years prior, and there was no other adverse information on his credit file, which 
meant that he fell within its lending criteria. 
For the limit increases, NewDay says it reviewed how Mr B was using his card, along with 
how he was managing his credit commitments and made risk-based assessments to ensure 
it was lending appropriately. In its view, these reviews suggested Mr B could afford the 
additional credit offered, until it increased it on both accounts January 2019. It hasnt 
provided me with any information to explain why it thought these limits were inappropriate, or 
what checks it carried out to determine this. Aqua
Mr B was given a credit facility where there was an expectation that hed repay what he 
borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable period of time. The relevant rules, 
regulations and guidance in the period NewDay lent to Mr B dont set out what a reasonable 
period of time is. So, I think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always 
be dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. 
That said, Mr Bs declared income at the time together with there not being anything too 
concerning on his credit file leads me to think that it was reasonable and proportionate for 
NewDay to conclude Mr B would be able to repay £250 within a reasonable period of time. 
So I dont think that NewDay did anything wrong when it decided to provide Mr B with a 
credit card that had an initial limit of £250.
NewDay then increased Mr Bs limit to £800 in September 2017. It said that it had looked at 
how he had managed his account in order to determine what an appropriate limit would be 
for him. In my view, this is a significant increase as it is more than three times the initial limit 
it gave him  and given that this was increased only five months after he took out the card, 
there wasnt really much account management data for it to go off to satisfy itself that Mr B 
could manage a higher limit. 
Even if I go by NewDays own admissions as to how it assesses affordability (prior 
management of the account), then it is still questionable whether this limit should have been 
granted  given that Mr B had made a late payment only two months before it increased his 
limit. NewDay only had three months worth of payment history to go by  so Im not sure 
how the management of his account up until that point indicated that Mr B could afford to 
repay, in a sustainable way, a limit of three times more than it had initially granted. However, 
Mr B still appeared to be earning at this point and I havent seen anything else to suggest 
that this increase was unaffordable to him.
In September 2018, NewDay increased Mr Bs limit again to £1550. It again stated that it 
checked how Mr B had managed his account prior to this, and it also looked at information 
provided by the credit reference agencies. Based on this, it thought Mr B could afford the 
new limit. Prior to the increase, Mr B was over his agreed credit limit for a number of months 
 and he had made late payments. NewDay said it thought about this, but as these things 
hadnt happened in the three months prior to increasing the limit, its lending criteria allowed it 
to increase the limit. 
NewDays internal data also shows an increase in overall lending, and that Mr B had started 
using payday lenders too. While I appreciate NewDays comments in that using payday 
loans wasnt in itself an indication he couldnt afford additional credit  it is something it 
would need to think about when considering Mr Bs overall financial position. 
Given the extra increase in borrowing, I think NewDay needed to carry out additional checks 
to ensure he could afford to repay what it intended to lend to him in a sustainable way. 
NewDay hadnt asked Mr B any questions about his income at all before agreeing to lend 
more to him. So, it isnt clear to me how it could be satisfied that he could afford this extra 
borrowing without even knowing what his income was. At this point in time, Mr B wasnt 
working, and so his income had significantly dropped. He also had his other credit card with 
NewDay by this point too, so it should have been aware of a drop income (but I will go onto 
this later).
In January 2019, NewDay increased Mr Bs limit again, this time to £2,550. The checks it 
says it carried out were similar to the previous credit limit increases. But NewDay has already said that this increase shouldnt have happened, and so I havent gone into this in 
too much detail, as I think all parties agree on this point. There were additional increases 
that happened after this point too but given that NewDay have already agreed that the 
increase in January 2019 wasnt appropriate, it follows that the increases after this time were 
also inappropriate.
In any event, it is the increase that happened in September 2018 that concerns me. NewDay 
had only really looked into how Mr B had managed his account up until this point and got 
some information from the credit reference agencies about his other lending. And given the 
level of increase in lending, Id have expected it to do more to check that Mr B could afford 
the new limit. 
Based on what Ive seen, I cant agree that Mr B has been managing his credit card account 
well. There are months where Mr B was over the limit, and months where he was late 
paying. Hed started using payday lenders, and his overall debt was increasing. I appreciate 
NewDay think that there wasnt anything wrong in increasing his limit on this occasion, and 
that it increased his limit within its lending criteria. But this doesnt mean it was fair to do so.
As Ive said, Mr B wasnt working when he NewDay increased his limit to £1150, so his 
income had decreased. I cant see how he could have been expected to repay the level of 
borrowing he had been given in a sustainable way. And I think this would have been 
apparent to NewDay had it carried out the appropriate checks. 
Marbles 
In April 2018, Mr B applied for another credit card with NewDay. NewDay allowed him a limit 
of £450. However, I dont think it was appropriate for NewDay to have lent on this occasion. 
While Mr B did declare that he was earning £12,000 a year, I have seen information to show 
that he was likely receiving less than this. Proportionate checks to determine his income at 
the time would likely have revealed this.
I appreciate that on the face of things, a £450 limit might seem manageable. But the income 
Mr B had declared on his application had decreased (from when he applied to the Aqua 
card). The management of his Aqua account at the time was poor  there were late 
payments and over the limit charges. In addition to this, NewDay were aware that Mr B had 
started using payday lenders which can be an indication of financial difficulties, and his 
overall debt had increased.
Taking into account all of the above, I would have expected Aqua to carry out additional 
checks to ensure Mr B could afford the debt. Had it done this, it would have become clear 
that he was struggling financially, and unable to manage the debt he already had.
NewDay said that Mr B paid around £265 off his Aqua card in March 2018, just before he 
applied for the Marbles card, and so this should show that he could afford the additional 
lending. But I dont agree with this comment. I have seen from Mr Bs bank statements and 
his testimony, that he paid the extra off his Aqua card with a backdated payment he received 
for benefits. This is a one-off payment, and money that he was due from his benefits. And so 
I dont think this indicates that Mr B could have afforded the Marbles card. If NewDay had 
carried out further checks, it would likely have recognised this.
I have noted NewDays comments that it is up to a financial business to decide what its 
appetite for risk is. And because Mr Bs application met its lending criteria, it opened an 
account for him. While I agree that it is up to a business to decide who it lends to, and how 
much, it needs to ensure that any lending it provides it affordable to a consumer. So just because NewDays lending criteria allowed Mr B the account, and NewDay were prepared to 
accept that risk, it doesnt mean that the lending was affordable, or that it carried out 
sufficient checks prior to lending to him.
  
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen, I think NewDay needs to put things right for Mr B. I can see 
that NewDay has already refunded some of the interest it said it applied to the credit cards. 
However, for clarity, NewDay needs to put things right by doing the below:
Aqua
rework the account to ensure that from September 2018 interest is only charged on 
the first £800 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees (that were applied 
after September 2018) should also be removed; and
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Bs account once all adjustments have been 
made NewDay should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
No interest should be charged on any outstanding balance over £800, until it is 
repaid.
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr B 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file that happened after 
September 2018.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must give Mr B a certificate
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Marbles
rework the account to ensure that no interest is charged on the capital balance of the 
account to reflect the fact that the account shouldnt have been given to Mr B. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Bs account once all adjustments have been 
made NewDay should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
No interest should be charged on any outstanding balance, until it is repaid.
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr B 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to this account.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. NewDay Ltd should put things 
right for by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman