DRN-3719926
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Tradex Insurance Company Limiteds decision to record a 
category B marker (categorising the extent of the damage) against his car when he made a 
claim under his motor trade policy. 
All reference to the insurer Tradex in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Rs car was set fire to and he made a claim to the insurer Tradex under his motor trade 
policy. 
An engineer on behalf of Tradex inspected Mr Rs car and said it would cost more than the 
value of the car to repair it. Photos show the car suffered rear end fire damage which Mr R 
said was caused by petrol being thrown over it. 
To validate the total loss claim, Tradex asked Mr R to provide verification documents. Mr R 
didnt provide the requested documents. He told Tradex that his father was seriously ill and 
for this reason he decided to withdraw his claim. 
Mr R said he went on to have his car repaired at his own cost. He complained to Tradex as 
he wanted the category B marker to be removed. He said the damage was cosmetic.
Tradex didnt uphold the complaint. It said the categorisation was correct due to the 
engineers opinion as to the extent of the damage caused. Tradex said it wouldnt remove 
the marker as it had acted correctly. 
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. He said he is driving the car and it is taxed, insured 
with Tradex and has a valid MOT. 
The Investigator asked Mr R to provide evidence to show what hed told us. But Mr R hasnt 
provide any. 
The Investigator didnt recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He thought Tradex 
had acted reasonably and in line with industry practice in correctly categorising the car. The 
Investigator explained that he hadnt seen anything to show why Tradex should remove the 
marker. 
Mr R didnt agree. He hasnt provided any evidence to support his reasons why. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tradex has provided a copy of the engineers report and photos of Mr Rs car. Photos show 
the car suffered significant fire damage to the rear. The engineer commented:
The vehicle is undrivable due to wiring harness fire damage
This vehicle salvage category is a B.
When an insurer assesses the damage to a vehicle and decides it is a total loss, the vehicle 
will be given a category  according to the severity of the damage  under a voluntary code 
agreed between the Association of British Insurers (ABI) and salvage dealers (ABI Code of 
Practice for the Categorisation of Motor Vehicle Salvage).
In this case, the engineer who inspected Mr Rs car categorised the damage as B. This is 
defined by the ABI as:
Break (not suitable for repair but usable parts can be recycled)
I understand Mr R believes the damage was cosmetic - but I havent seen anything to show 
me the recording of the car damage by Tradex was unreasonable. I think it acted in line with 
industry practice and it was fair for it to rely on the expert opinion of a qualified engineer who 
inspected Mr Rs car. 
So Im not asking Tradex to remove the category B marker. I appreciate my decision will 
disappoint Mr R. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman