DRN-4148409
The complaint
Mr K complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to his 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In March 2016 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £1,000 for Mr K, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £108 per month over a term of 24 months. It would seem that 
£300 of the loan was intended to consolidate other debts, and £700 for unspecified use.
When assessing the applications, Everyday Loans took steps to verify Mr Ks financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
It would seem that Mr K settled the loan via further borrowing from Everyday Loans.
When Mr K complained to it, Everyday Loans didnt accept it had done anything wrong. So 
he brought his case to this service. The adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have given Mr K this loan, but Everyday Loans hasnt responded to that view. So, whilst it 
may in fact not disagree with the adjudicators recommendations, the case has been passed 
to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint broadly for the same reasons as those of 
the adjudicator.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr K would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Mr K about his income and expenditure; reviewed copies of bank 
statements; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan application. Like the 
adjudicator, Im satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Mr K, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for him, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
The adjudicator thought that the remaining amount of disposable income Mr K had, once 
all his financial commitments had been taken into account, was concerningly small, and 
that he needed to spend such a significant proportion of his income on servicing his debts 
that Everyday Loans should not therefore have lent to him.
As mentioned, Everyday Loans has not responded to the adjudicators view. I share her 
concerns about disposable income and the proportion of income needed to service debt. In 
addition, I have identified some other reasons why I think Everyday Loans ought to have 
concluded that this borrowing was not sustainable for Mr K, and that he probably had some 
fairly entrenched financial problems:
Two recorded CCJs on his credit file.
Repeated use of high-cost short term lenders.
Repeated use of an unauthorised overdraft on his current account, with charges 
being levied as a result.
Two credit card accounts nearing their balance limit, and one over its limit.
It therefore follows that the evidence in this case leads me to uphold the complaint on the 
basis that Everyday Loans assessments did not demonstrate that the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr K.
Putting things right
It appears that Mr K has settled this loan. In order to put things right for his, Everyday Loans 
must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the principal on the loan. 
B) If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Whilst I dont believe there is, should there still be an outstanding balance following the 
actions set out in A, then Everyday Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr 
K.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman