DRN-1813486
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with BoS in 1991. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if 
Mr P couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. 
Mr and Mrs P says that it shouldnt have been applied because theyd taken out separate 
insurance to cover their mortgage.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied. 
I cant know with any certainty what took place during the sale. Nearly 29 years have passed 
since the sale, so its understandable  although unfortunate  that neither party has been 
able to supply any of the documents used at the time. 
However, my understanding of BoS sales processes from around the time of the sale is that 
PPI was optional and was presented as such to the customer. Although I appreciate that Mr 
and Mrs P believe that this didnt happen in their case I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
suggest that on this occasion its more likely that BoS didnt present the policy as optional.
So, on the limited information I have, I cant safely conclude that Mr and Mrs P were misled 
into thinking they didnt have a choice about it. I think its most likely Mr and Mrs P bought 
the policy understanding they had a choice about it.
Bos say it would have advised Mr and Mrs P to take the PPI. This means it had to check it 
was suitable for them, especially for Mr P whom the policy covered. I dont know if BoS took 
all the steps it should have done to check this, but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs P. I say this because:
 Mr P was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions. Mr P was self-employed, but the policy didnt 
make it more difficult for him to claim for unemployment than it did for an employed 
person;
As Mr P was self-employed he didnt have any entitlement to enhanced sick pay or 
redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs P didnt have any savings to cover their expenses if Mr 
P wasnt working. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr 
P couldnt work so it offered a useful benefit;
Mr and Mrs P say they had alternative insurance to cover their mortgage if Mr P 
couldnt work. But they havent been able to provide enough information about it for 
me to take this into account. And I dont have any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs P 
told BoS about this cover so BoS could take it into account when making a 
recommendation;
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P;
Mr and Mrs P could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out if they no 
longer wanted or needed it. They did this about nine months later.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions 
in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it 
out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs P wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this because Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P in the way Ive described.
So, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs P this 
PPI policy.
 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman