DRN-4508519
The complaint
F is unhappy that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) has
turned down its claim under its Agricultural Vehicle Insurance Policy for its Telehandler after
it suffered damage whilst in use.
F is represented by Mr H, Mr H and Mrs H.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 November 2023 and set out what Id 
provisionally decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided it should be upheld for the following reasons:
Fs policy covers damage to their Telehandler and it is damaged. This means it is for
NFU to show that an exclusion applies which defeats Fs claim. And I dont consider
NFU has done that.
Its engineer said the damage was due to wear and tear. And a Consultant Forensic
Engineering Metallurgist, who Ill refer to as Mr G, said it was due to what he
describes as mechanical failure. By this he means it failed as a result of fatigue
fractures which eventually led to it breaking under what would be considered normal
loading.
However, he mentioned in his report that hed have expected fatigue cracks to be
picked up in a properly carried out LOLER examination. One of these took place 9 to
10 months before the Telehandler failed and didnt identify any cracking. In fact, it
was given what might be best described as a clean bill of health. At the time he did
his report Mr G was not aware this examination had taken place.
When our investigator asked NFU to obtain Mr Gs specific comments on this he
suggested that the examination did not detect potentially disastrous structural
defects. From what hes said it seems he is suggesting that the examiner missed the
fatigue cracking that would have been present. However, bearing in mind the LOLER
examination was a legal requirement and the examiner was suitably qualified to carry
it out, I think this is highly unlikely. I think the report shows it is more likely that there
were no fatigue cracks at this time.
This view is supported by the comments of the examiner, who said hed have taken
photographs if there was any cause for concern.
This suggests to me that the most likely cause of the damage to the Telehandler was
the fact it was overloaded by accident at the point it broke and it was this unusual
overload that caused the boom arm headstock to crack and break off.
Of course, I can see from the photographs provided that there was some wear and
rust to the Telehandler. But I do not consider  in light of the evidence  NFU has
shown this was the dominant and effective cause of the damage. This means I agree
with our investigator that the damage to Fs Telehandler is covered by their policy
and that NFU should settle their claim under it in accordance with the settlement
terms in the policy.
I also consider NFU should pay interest on the amount due to F at 8% per annum
simple from the date it paid the repair invoice to the date of actual payment. This is to
compensate F for being without funds it should have had.
F has also mentioned it had to hire a Telehandler up to the point it finally had its own one
repaired. Ive considered whether I should make NFU pay something for hire costs, as F
raised this as part of its complaint.
I think NFUs engineer should have realised it needed to check whether Fs Telehandler
had had a safety inspection at the outset. This is a standard requirement for this sort of
machinery and NFUs engineer should have known that and checked when the last
inspection had taken place. And I think if he had done this and obtained a copy of the
LOLER report from F, NFU should then have accepted the claim as opposed to rejecting
it. Instead, it rejected the claim on 19 December 2022 and this led to F challenging the
decision, providing its own reports and Mr G being commissioned to provide a report.
This meant F didnt know the final outcome on its claim and complaint until 2 May 2023,
when NFU issued its final response. And it was really only at this point I would have
expected F to mitigate and pay for its Telehandler to be repaired. I say this because up
to this point it would have been hoping NFU would change its mind and it would not have
to pay out such a large amount in one go to have its Telehandler repaired.
As I see it, NFU should have got the LOLER report and accepted the claim by the
beginning of January 2023. This means F ended up hiring a replacement Telehandler
from early January 2023 until 2 May 2023, i.e. 17 full weeks, purely as a result of NFUs
error in not obtaining the LOLER report and accepting the claim once it had reviewed it.
So, I think NFU should also cover the cost to F of hiring a replacement Telehandler for
this period.
Ive seen an invoice for hire at £450 per week, which I have no reason to consider
unreasonable as a cost for hiring a Telehandler. This means I think NFU should pay F
£7,650 to cover hire costs. It should also pay interest on this amount at 8% per annum
simple from the date F paid the hire invoice to the date of actual payment. This is to
compensate F for being without funds it should have had.
I gave both parties until 11 December 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
F responded to say that it thinks if NFU had dealt with the claim as it should have done, it 
would have been settled before Christmas. So, it thinks it should get more towards hiring a 
replacement Telehandler. 
NFU has responded. It has reiterated the comments of Mr G, which it believes shows that 
the hairline cracks that were present in Fs Telehandler were present when the LOLER 
inspection took place and werent picked up. It remains of the view that the evidence from Mr 
G shows that the Telehandler failed due to wear and tear. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it remains my view that it should be upheld for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
I have noted what NFU has said. But, despite what Mr G said, I do not consider it likely that 
the LOLER examiner missed something as fundamental as fatigue cracks when he carried 
out his inspection. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the inspection was a legal 
requirement and it would have been a very serious oversight if he had missed something as 
significant as fatigue cracks. Therefore, I think it is more likely than not that they were not 
present when he carried out his inspection. And this means I do not think that NFU has 
shown that it was wear and tear that was the dominant and effective cause of the damage to 
Fs Telehandler. 
Ive also noted what F has said about hire charges. But, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, even allowing for delays due to the absence of its engineer due to illness for a 
short period, NFU needed sometime to investigate the claim. And it remains my view that it 
should have investigated it and agreed to settle it by the beginning of January 2023; but no 
earlier than this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to make The 
National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited settle Fs claim for the damage to 
its Telehandler in accordance with the claim settlement terms in Fs policy. Ive also decided 
to make NFU pay interest on the amount due to F at 8% per annum simple from the date it 
paid the repair invoice to the date of payment.
I have also decided to make NFU pay F £7,650 to cover the cost of it hiring a
Telehandler for a period of 17 weeks, plus interest on this amount at 8% per annum simple
from the date F paid the hire invoice to the date of actual payment1.
My final decision
I uphold Fs complaint and order The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited trading as NFU Mutual to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right 
section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 NFU must tell F if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much its 
taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate F if asked to do so. This will allow F 
to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.