DRN-1318012
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way he has been treated by Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) in 
relation to his debt management plan. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr P was signed off work. As this meant he was unable to make payments to 
Barclays and other creditors, he entered into a debt management plan with business B - who 
were responsible for providing Barclays and other creditors with payment, along with key 
information such as Mr Ps income and expenditure. 
However, in late July 2019 Barclays told Mr P that they hadnt received his income and 
expenditure information from business B. Mr P was adamant that he had provided it, as 
business B had already begun making payments to other creditors for him. He contacted 
business B himself and they reassured him they had sent the relevant information over to 
Barclays. 
Barclays explained that the error may have been caused if some of Mr Ps personal details 
were incorrect, but Mr P said that no mistakes had been made. 
Due to the inconvenience caused, Barclays offered Mr P £30 which he accepted. However, 
Mr P got back in touch with Barclays in early August and said that due to the impact the 
situation had on him, he felt more was warranted. Mr P explained that when he spoke to the 
manager at Barclays he became dismissive and rude. Mr P also explained that the situation 
had a great impact on his health. 
Because of this, Barclays increased their offer to £80. Mr P didnt accept that amount. He 
wanted Barclays to write off some or all of his debt, and for the individual involved to be 
dismissed from his job. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps concerns, and while he understood the impact the 
situation had had on Mr P, he felt the offer of £80 was fair. 
Mr P disagreed. He felt the length of time taken for Barclays to register the information on 
their system was too long. Because he didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having read through everything, I can understand why this situation would have caused        
Mr P a great deal of distress. He had done everything correctly. He contacted Barclays and 
business B, and provided all of the information he was supposed to. So I can imagine it was 
very distressing to hear that Barclays hadnt heard from business B, when in fact, they had. I dont know why Mr Ps income and expenditure wasnt showing on Barclays system when 
Mr P contacted them in July, it may have been the case that it was still being processed. In 
any event, it did result in Mr P having to contact business B and Barclays multiple times, 
causing him a great deal of distress and inconvenience. 
I can see that Bs proposal was recorded onto Barclays system on 25 July, two days after 
Mr P first called. And when he called again on 2 August it was under consideration. Barclays 
accepted Bs proposal on 8 August. Im sure this was a very worrying time for Mr P and I 
dont doubt he wanted to be reassured that his offer had been accepted as soon as possible.
I have also taken into consideration the information that Mr P has given us about his mental 
health, and so I can appreciate that this situation was likely to have been even more difficult 
for him to deal with. 
But even though I appreciate all of this, I do think the offer of £80 is fair. I know Mr P wanted 
his debt to be written off, but this isnt something I would ask Barclays to do. Theres no 
doubt he borrowed the money  and while Barclays should treat him fairly in financial 
difficulty (as I think they did) I dont think its fair to expect the debt to be written off, 
especially as I dont think theyve done anything wrong. It took some time for Mr Ps 
information to show on their system, but overall I think the time taken to consider and agree 
with business Bs proposals was reasonable. 
I have also listened to the conversations had between Mr P and Barclays, and I cant agree 
that anyone was either dismissive or rude at any time. During the calls I listened to, Mr P 
seemed content with the customer service being provided. 
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P. I understand he was very upset 
and worried about his situation. But I think a lot of that was because of the financial situation 
he was in, rather than because of anything Barclays did. Thats why, having considered the 
impact this situation must have had on him, I feel the offer of £80 is fair.
Because of this, I wont be asking Barclays to offer anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman