DRN-2837522
The complaint
Mr W complains that the Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited incorrectly advised 
him to transfer his defined benefit pension to a section 32 pension plan, and that 
correspondence about his pension was sent to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr W had a defined benefit pension from an employment where he worked between 1987 
and 1990. In 1992 he transferred his pension benefits to a section 32 buy-out policy (a type 
of personal pension plan). The transfer value of his pension at the time was £2,042.61 and 
included a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) payable when he reached state pension 
age.
In 2020 Mr W complained about the advice he had received to transfer his pension. He said 
he wasnt told about the risks involved and should not have been advised to transfer. He 
also said he had never received letters sent to him in 1999 about a review of his pension.
Royal London accepted that letters had been sent to the wrong address, so it was unlikely 
he had received them. It consented to our service looking into the advice given to Mr W at 
the time of the transfer, but didnt accept that the advice given to Mr W was wrong.
Royal London provided documents from the point of sale but there was very limited 
information and it didnt include details about the discussions Mr W had with the adviser or 
his circumstances at the time. 
After asking Mr W about his circumstances, our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He said that based on Mr Ws circumstances and the projected investment 
growth rates at the time, the advice to transfer would have seemed reasonable. He thought 
Mr W would have had the capacity to take some risk in order to get a better return.
Mr W disagrees with the investigator and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says 
there was no mention at the time of any risk being involved and he was told the new pension 
be better  the impression given to him was that the transfer would guarantee a better 
return.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A process was carried out for certain pension business carried out between April 1988 and 
June 1994, generally known as the "Pensions Review", where consumers were invited to 
have a review of their pension. Letters were sent to Mr W about this but they were sent to 
the wrong address and he says he didnt receive them. As the pension review wasnt carried 
out, we have assessed the advice given to Mr W.
Mr W had a workplace pension where the benefits were defined by his salary and length of 
service. The issue for me to decide is whether it was suitable for Royal London to 
recommend that Mr W transfer his defined benefit pension to the Section 32 buy-out policy, 
where the pension he receives will depend on the performance of the funds invested. Its not 
a matter of whether he will in fact be better off in retirement, but whether the advice was 
reasonable based on the information available at the time. 
The adviser would have needed to consider Mr Ws circumstances and whether he had the 
capacity to risk transferring his pension, in order to seek a better performance from a private 
pension. We have very limited information about the discussions that took place in 1992. But 
Mr W was young and had a long way to go before retirement. He had only been in the 
pension scheme for a short period and the transfer value was small. He had joined his new 
employers pension scheme, so had another workplace pension. And the section 32 plan 
included some guarantees. Bearing in mind how many years there were until retirement, the 
adviser would reasonably have thought the investment would grow, Mr W would be able to 
take some risk, and was likely to be better off by transferring. 
The rates of return turned out to be less than the rates that were anticipated in 1992. But I 
have to consider what was known at the time, without the benefit of hindsight. What the 
adviser had to consider was whether there was a reasonable chance that by the time Mr W 
retired, the new pension could outperform his workplace pension. Looking at the projected 
investment growth rates, and taking into account Mr Ws circumstances and the amount of 
time until his retirement, I think it was reasonable for the adviser to believe that Mr W could 
be better off by transferring. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman