DRN-3945605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim they made under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had travel insurance, with AWP, through their packaged bank account. The 
policy provided cover to them, for various pre-departure and post-departure risks. 
Mr and Mrs S were due to go on a cruise on 26 May 2022. But theyve explained they had to 
cancel their trip. This being because Mr S had tested positive for Covid-19 on 16 May 2022, 
and shortly after, on 23 May 2023, Mrs S tested positive for the virus. Mr and Mrs S said the 
positive tests in the 14 days preceding their trip meant they were unwell. And, if the cruise 
provider wouldnt allow them to travel.
Mr and Mrs S said they tried to gain a refund for their trip from the cruise provider. But this 
was unsuccessful. Theyve said the cruise companys terms and conditions didnt provide for 
a refund in the case of Covid-19 diagnosis. The cruise carrier offered for them to use the 
funds towards another cruise. But Mr and Mrs S said the cruises offered were around 30% 
more expensive than their original one. So, it wasnt possible for them to take this option. 
Because of this, Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their travel insurance policy. They were 
claiming the cost of the cruise  which was £5,590  less the applicable excess on their 
policy.
AWP considered Mr and Mrs S claim and declined it. AWP said the policy did provide cover 
for cancellation where Mr and Mrs S were ill. But said in order for the claim to be paid Mr and 
Mrs S needed to provide a medical certificate from a doctor to confirm they werent fit to 
travel. And, as they hadnt provided a medical certificate, it wasnt able to settle the claim.
In addition to this, AWP said the policy did also provide cover for cancellation due to the 
need to quarantine, where ordered or required by a government or public authority. But AWP 
said the UK had lifted its quarantine requirements in February 2022, and so this didnt apply 
to Mr and Mrs S claim. And so, it couldnt settle the loss under this event either.
Mr and Mrs S didnt consider AWPs position to be fair. They didnt think it was fair to be told 
a lateral flow test and confirmation email from the NHS wasnt enough for settlement of the 
claim. They didnt think it was fair for AWP to ask for a PCR test, when this wasnt mentioned 
in the policy, or a doctors note when there was no mention of this on the insurers website 
FAQs.
AWP maintained its position on the matter. As Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They didnt 
consider it fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs S claim to be declined on the basis that they 
didnt have a doctors note saying they were unfit for travel. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators findings. AWP didnt reply.
As AWP didnt reply, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, and require AWP to reassess Mr and 
Mrs S claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Ive explained why 
below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AWP 
acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr and Mrs S claim.
Ive also reviewed Mr and Mrs S policy documentation, to see what cover their policy 
provides. On doing so, I can see the policy does provide cover for cancellation of a trip, in 
certain circumstances. One of those circumstances is the illness of the policyholder, and this 
includes diagnosis of Covid-19. Other circumstances include the policyholder needing to 
quarantine by order of the government. Or being refused boarding on booked public 
transport by the carrier where the policyholder or travelling companion is displaying 
symptoms of a contagious disease  including Covid-19.
Mr and Mrs S couldnt go on holiday because on 26 May 2022, because they had tested 
positive for Covid-19.  Ive seen the NHS track and trace documents for both parties, 
confirming that they had the virus, and that these results went through to Mr S GP. So, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs S were ill, and this meant they were unable to travel.
Im aware there was no requirement by the government to quarantine  rather there was 
advice to try and stay at home and avoid contact with people. But Ive seen information from 
the cruise company that shows Mr and Mrs S would have been denied boarding of the ship. 
This is included in the cruise carriers terms and conditions document. And the frequently 
asked questions document from the carrier notes a diagnosis of Covid-19 within 14 days of 
the cruise would mean Mr and Mrs S were unable to travel. 
Given this, Im satisfied there were insured events that applied to Mr and Mrs S cancellation 
claim. These being Mr and Mrs S illness. And, whilst Mr and Mrs S werent denied boarding 
because they didnt actually travel to the ship, I think its fair to say they would have been 
turned away. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S have shown insured events have occurred. 
AWP has however said that whilst Mr and Mrs S has shown an insured event occurred (their 
illness) there is a condition in the policy which Mr and Mrs S havent met, and which means 
the claim isnt payable. The condition AWP are referring to one which says:
In addition to the General claims information required shown under the Making a claim 
section on page 19, where appropriate, you must also provide us with:
()
C. a medical certificate from a doctor to confirm that you or your travelling companion are 
not fit to travelAWP has said Mr and Mrs S havent provided a medical certificate. And I accept this was 
case. So, Ive thought about whether AWP has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on this 
condition to decline the claim. And I dont think it has.
The above condition doesnt specify that a medical certificate should be given in all cases. 
Just where appropriate. Where appropriate isnt explained. So, I think the policy provides an 
element of flexibility in terms of when the provisional of a medical certificate will be needed 
to progress a claim.
I think this case is one in which an element of flexibility is fair and reasonable. I say this 
because Mr and Mrs S have provided other, persuasive evidence of them testing positive for 
Covid-19, and therefore meeting the policy terms. Mr and Mrs S have shown positive lateral 
flow tests for the virus. The policy doesnt say a lateral flow test is insufficient to show a 
positive result. So, I take this to be a valid testing method to show their diagnosis.
And both Mr and Mrs S registered their positive tests results with the NHS, evidence of 
which has been provided. Ive also seen Mr S GP records, which he has accessed online. 
And these show positive test results registered with the GP, with dates those tests were 
taken  which were in the 14 days preceding the planned trip. I dont think a medical 
certificate would show anything different or additional to the above. And so, I think AWP 
acted unfairly in not accepting Mr and Mrs S claim for cancellation due to illness, on the 
basis of the information supplied. 
As an aside, Ive mentioned that another peril seems likely to apply in this case too. This 
being the one around being denied boarding where Mr and Mrs S had symptoms of a 
contagious disease such as Covid-19. I cant see that the medical certificate would add 
anything additional in showing that Mr and Mrs S would have been denied boarding of the 
ship. I dont think it would have been fair and reasonable to expect them to travel to the ship, 
only to be denied boarding, which they already knew would happen. Mr and Mrs S followed 
NHS advice  which didnt require them to self-isolate but did advise them to limit contact as 
much as possible. So, I think they have acted fairly in showing this peril applies too.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to 
reassess Mr and Mrs S claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman