DRN-3022168
The complaint
Mr D complained that Creation Financial Services Limited treated him unfairly when they 
blocked online access to his account and didnt send statements to him.
What happened
Mr D has held a credit card account with Creation since 2015. The initial credit limit of 
£6,000 was increased to £7,000 by Creation in 2016. Mr D admits that he made some late 
payments to his account in mid-2017 although always ensured that payments were made. 
He also says that his account was within the credit limit provided.
Mr D says that Creation blocked his access to their on-line services in 2018. This meant that 
he could no longer access his statements or manage his account. So, he telephoned 
Creation to complain and asked them to send written statements. He says he received these 
on a couple of occasions. Mr D says that hes never received any notification that his 
account has been suspended or cancelled.
In June 2019, Mr D engaged a third party to complain to Creation on his behalf. They told 
Creation that Mr D had no access to his account and didnt receive statements, even though 
these had been requested. They said that Mr D hadnt exceeded his limit, but that Creation 
had frozen his account without any written warning. They told Creation they were penalising 
Mr D for not managing his account and making payments when it was their actions that 
prevented this. They said that Creation had treated Mr D badly and were unhelpful.
Creation responded to Mr Ds complaint. They said Mr Ds payments hadnt reached his 
account by the expected due date each month. They also said that Mr D had exceeded his 
credit limit on a number of occasions. They said hed breached the terms and conditions of 
the account. Creation didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Creations response. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint. She didnt think that Creation 
needed to take any action here. She agreed that Mr D had breached Creations terms and 
conditions and Creation were entitled to take the actions they did.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said hed provided evidence that he 
was well within his credit limit and was making regular payments. He thought that Creations 
actions were unacceptable. So, he asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ds account statements for the period January 2017 to June 2018. Mr D 
had exceeded the limit agreed on nine occasions. Eight of these occasions were between 
October 2017 and June 2018.  I also found that Mr D had been late with his payments on 
five occasions  three of these since November 2017. Creation charged Mr D a fee of £12 
for each excess and late payment. 
Ive considered Creations terms and conditions relating to his account with them. 
Section 4.1 says The Credit Limitmay not at any time be exceeded.
Section 12 says If you fail to make prompt payment of the monthly payment or if youbreak 
any other term of this agreementwe shall be entitled:
a) without notice, to end, restrict or suspend your rightto use the Card, PIN or Card 
number
c) subject to serving on you any notice required by law, to end this agreement (and, for 
the avoidance of doubt, each part of this agreement).
Creation have provided details of all letters and correspondence sent to Mr D. They show 
they wrote to Mr D about his account on 15 occasions between July 2017 and August 2018. 
The letters highlighted the occasions when Mr D either exceeded his credit limit or hadnt 
made a payment on time. The letters also clearly explained any consequences to Mr D. 
Creation included details of where Mr D could get confidential and free debt advice. This is 
what I would expect Creation to do here. Creations notes and letters also suggest there 
were occasions when Mr D had promised to make payments which didnt then materialise, 
as agreed. 
Mr D says that his account balance wasnt in excess of the agreed limit. He has provided this 
service with a copy of his statement from August 2018 showing that his balance was within 
the limit. I agree thats the case. But it appears that there had been many occasions when it 
wasnt. So, on balance, Im unable to agree with Mr D here. Its also apparent payments had 
either been missed or were late on occasions.
Creation have explained that where the terms of the account are regularly breached, they 
will remove on-line access. They also stop sending statements. I believe Creation are 
entitled to do that. Creation further explain that this policy is used to ensure that Mr D 
regularly contacts them in order to ascertain his outstanding balance and any payment due. 
Creation say that their policy means they can provide regular support to Mr D, where 
appropriate, and ensure he is fully aware of the position on his account. It also enables them 
to regularly check affordability and explain any consequences of non-payment. I think this is 
reasonable in these circumstances.
It isnt the role of this service to question Creations policies here. It also isnt our role to 
question Creations terms and conditions. Its our role to consider whether these have been 
applied in a way that is fair and reasonable to Mr Ds circumstances. 
Having considered all of the circumstances, I think Creation have acted fairly here. I think 
that Mr D had broken Creations terms and conditions on multiple occasions, so they were 
entitled to act as they did. They wrote to Mr D on multiple occasions in an attempt to resolve 
the situation and explain what Mr D needed to do.
I realise that Mr D will be disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that Creation have done 
anything wrong or acted unfairly here so I wont be upholding his complaint. Going forward, I 
would encourage Mr D to maintain regular contact with Creation to keep them aware of his 
circumstances. This will enable Creation to consider any additional support that may be 
appropriate to avoid further action.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman