DRN-2763974
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about a loan facilitated by Retail Money Market Ltd trading as 
RateSetter in 2016. Mrs P says that RateSetter shouldnt have accepted her for credit as she 
couldnt afford the repayments and had to borrow again from elsewhere to meet her living 
expenses.
What happened
Mrs P acquired a loan of £23,500 through RateSetters electronic system in April 2016. The 
loan total of £29,870, including interest and charges, was to be repaid over 60 monthly 
instalments of £498. (Ive rounded all figures to the nearest pound.) 
The account history shows that Mrs P made her payments on time until mid-2019. She had 
failed/returned payments in May and June 2019, and then sustained failed payments from 
September. Mrs Ps made token monthly payments of £1 since January 2020. The 
outstanding balance to be paid is just under £9,000, which I understand means Mrs P has 
paid almost £20,900 to date. 
Mrs P says that RateSetter didnt carry out a proper affordability check before lending to her. 
She says she didnt earn enough to afford the loan and at the time was on maternity leave, 
and in receipt of statutory maternity pay. 
RateSetter says that Mrs P met its minimum lending requirements based on her application 
and information from her credit file. It says her credit history was satisfactory, that it verified 
her income and that the loan was affordable for the household. 
One of our investigators has already looked into Mrs Ps complaint and recommended that it 
be upheld. They found that RateSetter should have carried out more comprehensive 
affordability checks before agreeing a loan for Mrs P and, had it done so, was likely to have 
found that she wouldnt have been able to meet her loan repayments sustainably over the 
loan term. 
RateSetter did not agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed again. So it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
Having considered everything carefully, Im  upholding Mrs Ps complaint for broadly the 
same reasons as our investigator did. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for 
RateSetter and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this 
conclusion.
As it operated the operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mrs P 
being provided with a loan, RateSetter needed to check that Mrs P could afford to meet 
her repayments sustainably before bringing about this agreement for her. In other words, 
it needed to check she could repay the credit out of her usual means without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and 
Mrs Ps circumstances, and RateSetter needed to take proper account of the information 
it gathered. The overarching requirement for RateSetter is that it needed to pay due 
regard to Mrs Ps interests and treat her fairly.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did RateSetter complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ps application to satisfy itself that she would be 
able to make her repayments in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
RateSetter asked Mrs P for information about her income. It says it verified this and gathered 
information about Mrs Ps credit commitments through a report from a credit reference 
agency (CRA). It estimated the household outgoings from statistical data from the Office of 
National Statistics. 
Mrs P gave her salary as £24,000 and the household annual income as £41,200. I 
understand RateSetter estimated a monthly income for Mrs P of £1,617, assuming no 
deductions from this. Similarly, it assumed a net monthly income of £1,270 for her husband 
and estimated a household net monthly income of around £2,890. It used this figure in its 
affordability analysis. 
RateSetter said With regards to  using partners income, we also use partners debt 
commitments when assessing household affordability, this is our policy and it is not 
uncommon for lenders to do so, given how a lot of households pool and resources and split 
expenses
The relevant regulations (CONC 5.3.1G-4) state that a lender should take account of actual 
current income or expenditure and reasonably expected future income or expenditure (to the 
extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from 
actual current income or expenditure over the anticipated repayment period of the 
agreement. It also states that it is not generally sufficient for a lender to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Let me start by saying that this approach might constitute a proportionate check in some 
circumstances. In this case, Im afraid I dont consider it did. It doesnt seem to me that 
RateSetter took steps to verify Mrs Ps husbands income although it relied on household 
income in its affordability assessment. RateSetter says its CRA check provided it with 
sufficient confidence about Mrs Ps declared income level and provided a snapshot of a 
report showing a confidence rating. I dont know how this was produced or if RateSetter then 
verified that Mrs P was, in fact, in receipt of this money from her employer each month. And I 
cant see what this said about the household income, or whether any of Mrs Ps husbands 
income was actually available to make the payments to this loan.  
I note that RateSetter considered that Mrs P would be £100 better off each month after 
consolidating her debts as she would be paying an amount of £497, as opposed to almost 
£600. However, agreeing this loan would leave Mrs P solely liable for a payment of over 
30% a month of her estimated net monthly income for five years. The regulations are clear 
that on making the required assessment RateSetter needed to take into account more than assessing Mrs Ps ability to repay the credit. In other words, RateSetter needed to consider 
whether or not this significant payment would be sustainable for Mrs P over the term. I dont 
think relying on statistical data, which may not have been representative of someone with 
Mrs Ps level of existing debt, was proportionate here. I think a reasonable response would 
have been to enquire further into Mrs Ps living costs before enabling a loan for her. 
Altogether, in the circumstances of this case, I dont consider that RateSetter carried out a 
proportionate check on Mrs Ps ability to meet her repayments sustainably before lending to 
her. 
Mrs P has provided her bank statements for the period in question. To be clear, I am not 
suggesting that RateSetter ought to have looked at these but it gives me some insight into 
what Mrs Ps income and expenditure was generally around that time. Mrs P says that she 
was on maternity leave when the loan was agreed and was receiving statutory maternity pay 
of about £640 a month. I can see from the bank statements that was the case, and also that 
her statutory payments ended in April 2016 and she had no income in the following months. 
Clearly, Mrs P didnt have enough sole income to meet the loan repayments at that time. 
As mentioned, RateSetter took into consideration household income and expenses in its 
assessment of the affordability of this loan for Mrs P. Mrs P told RateSetter that her 
husbands annual income was £17,200 from which it estimated a net monthly income of 
about £1,270. Mrs P says that her husband was self-employed and didnt have a regular 
income. I dont know any details of her husbands means or his contributions to the 
household income. Mrs Ps husband might have earned more than shed declared to 
RateSetter, though I think this is unlikely. On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs Ps income and 
therefore the household income, was likely to be about £1,000 less than the figure 
RateSetter relied on. 
RateSetter used an estimate of £1,530 for the household expenses including Mrs Ps 
mortgage payment. This isnt an unreasonable minimum, based on what I can see from the 
bank statements, though Mrs P had other debts for example she was repaying a student 
loan and making large payments to a credit card other than the one shed said she wanted to 
consolidate. Based on RateSetters expense estimate, a loan repayment of almost £500 was 
not likely to be affordable for Mrs P. I have noted child benefit and child tax credit payments 
on her bank statements from May 2016, however at that point her maternity pay had ended 
and I dont think these benefits meant her income had increased. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think further checks on Mrs Ps income and 
expenditure would have shown that she wasnt likely to be able to meet her repayments 
sustainably over the term of the loan, and so I consider that RateSetter was irresponsible to 
have facilitated it.
I have considered that Mrs P met her repayments for three years, however I dont think its 
likely that she did so without borrowing from elsewhere. RateSetter has provided a copy of 
Mrs Ps credit file from 2019 which shows that while she used its loan to repay her hire 
purchase and unsecured loan, she retained a credit card and within a year had taken on two 
more. By the end of 2018, Mrs P was over £30,000 in debt.   
Putting things right
Ive found that RateSetter was irresponsible to have brought about this loan for Mrs P and so 
I dont think she should have to pay any interest or charges associated with it. I do think she 
should repay the capital amount, as shes had the use of these funds. RateSetter should:
a) Cap the amount that Mrs P needs to repay under the agreement at the capital 
borrowed of £23,500; and
b) Consider all payments made by Mrs P as payments towards the original capital 
amount of £23,500;
I understand that this will leave a capital amount outstanding.  I would remind RateSetter of 
its obligation to treat Mrs P sympathetically and fairly, should it choose to pursue her for the 
remainder of the capital bearing in mind her current financial difficulties and that she has 
been making token payments for over 18 months.
c) Remove any negative information from Mrs Ps credit file in relation to this loan once 
settled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Mrs Ps complaint against Retail Money 
Market Ltd trading as RateSetter and require it to put things right for her as Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman