DRN-1112081
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the level of service he received from The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) when he made use of the roadside assistance part 
of his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Cs car had a breakdown and he contacted NFU for assistance. Its roadside assistance 
provider sent a contractor who was unable to diagnose the repair as the necessary 
diagnostic device had been removed from his van. The providers patrol attended the 
following day but he was unable to complete the repair at the roadside. NFUs provider 
apologised and offered Mr C £100 compensation for the poor service from the contractor. 
 But Mr C remained unhappy that he hadnt received the service hed paid for, an hours 
attempted fix. He said hed been without his car for two days and had to arrange a repair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
service provided wasnt to the standard expected. He didnt think it unreasonable that the 
provider had sent an agent to try to make the repair. And he thought NFUs offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable for the level of inconvenience caused.
Mr C remained unhappy that a contractor had attended and hadnt had the correct 
equipment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Cs policy includes the following term and condition:
Emergency Roadside Assistance and Transportation 
A repairer to attend the scene including up to one hours labour to try and restore the 
VEHICLEs mobility. If WE feel repairs are not practicable at the scene, WE will arrange and 
pay for the VEHICLE to be taken to the nearest garage or place of safe storage up to a total 
recovery distance of 20 miles.
We is defined as:
The assistance service, which is operated on behalf of NFU MUTUAL and any authorised 
employees or agents operating on their behalf.So I think Mr C was entitled to assistance at the scene. But I think its clear that this would be 
provided by the assistance service or its agents, such as the contractor who attended in the 
evening. So I cant say it was unreasonable for NFUs provider to send its agent to attend Mr 
Cs breakdown. But NFU agreed that the service received by Mr C was unacceptable as he 
didnt have the correct equipment. 
When a business makes a mistake, as NFU agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position as far as its possible to do so. And we consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer.
Mr Cs breakdown call was made from his home in the evening. The contractor who 
attended didnt have the required equipment to carry out a diagnosis of the cars fault. I can 
understand that this must have been frustrating for Mr C whod waited for his arrival.
But NFUs providers patrol who attended the following morning with the correct equipment 
was unable to make a roadside repair. So I think that if the contractor had had the correct 
equipment, the outcome would have been the same for Mr C. He would still have had to take 
his car to a garage the following morning.  
Mr C said he expected an hours attempts to fix his car. I think the policy says up to an 
hour. I havent seen any evidence that the car could have been fixed at the roadside. So I 
can say that Mr C didnt receive the service hed paid for. 
I think Mr C was caused some inconvenience and upset, but I cant see that this was 
significant. NFU offered him £100 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. So I dont require 
NFU to increase this offer. 
From what I can see, Mr C declined NFUs offer. If he decides to accept it Id expect NFU to 
still honour this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman