DRN-2820674
The complaint
Mr I complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) cancelled his charge 
card account.
What happened
Mr I took out a Preferred Rewards Gold charge card with Amex. In February 2020, Mr I failed 
to make the minimum payment of just over £500.
Along with other communications, Amex issued a statement in February 2020. This told Mr I 
his account was overdue - in breach of his credit agreement - and could result in action, 
costs and negatively affect his credit file. It also wrote to him on 23 February, 1 and 11 
March saying itd been trying to get in touch and that immediate payment was required to 
prevent negative credit reporting. It then sent him a statement on 19 March with the same 
warnings as the February statement. This was followed by a letter on 21 March 2020, 
reiterating the same messages, saying hed need to make an immediate payment of the 
amount outstanding - just over £1,000 by that point - to avoid cancellation of his charge card.
On 23 and 24 March, Mr I called Amex. He says he explained he recently lost his job but 
was in final interviews and expected to be employed again by the start of April so just 
needed a little extra time. He says wires must have been crossed as he thought it was 
agreed he could pay half of what was outstanding (just over £500) by 19 May and the 
remaining half the month after.
Mr I was offered a new role on 26 March and says when he did try to make a payment in 
early May, the account had already been closed and the full amount was due. Mr I says the 
recruitment process was longer than usual due to the pandemic and he wouldnt have 
agreed to make a payment before he was due to receive his first pay cheque. 
Mr I says he was told he could join Amexs Regain program instead of the case being 
passed to an external debt collection agency (DCA). He says he was told itd likely count as 
a default on his credit report but also hed need to give them access to his bank account. He 
felt this would be a gross violation of his privacy and the information he found out about the 
Regain programme online wasnt appealing to him.
Mr I complained to Amex. Amex reviewed matters but didnt think the account was closed
incorrectly. It explained that payment hadnt been received for over 90 days, which is why
the account was closed. Having listened to the calls Mr I had with it on 23 and 24 March, the 
complaint handlers notes record that Mr I was told what hed need to do to avoid the account 
being cancelled. So, if he made the oldest minimum payment hed missed before 19 April - 
of just over £500 that was due in February - this would give him another 30 days to pay back 
the next oldest minimum payment hed missed. This is because 19 April would be when the 
first missed minimum payment from February wouldve been outstanding for 90 days  and 
this is the point at which the account would be cancelled. Amex says there was no 
discussion of extending this date and no further contact from Mr I. So, when the February 
payment was 90 days overdue, the account was cancelled.
Mr I remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. To put things right, hed 
like Amex to clear the outstanding balance completely and remove any negative markers 
against his credit score. He also wants to be refunded the amounts he paid to the DCA so 
far plus an additional amount as compensation for this experience.
An investigator looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
He thought the information given in various letters sent to Mr I was clear and Mr I shouldve 
contacted Amex sooner than he did to explain his financial situation and made the payment 
by the agreed date. 
Mr I disagrees. He doesnt agree hes been treated fairly - he had never missed a payment 
before this. And, although he had one missed call on his phone from late April, no voicemail 
was left or email sent. He says his main focus in that time was finding a new job and this 
was mentally and physically difficult for him. Also, as he wasnt expecting correspondence 
and living in a flat, it wasnt his first thought to check in the lobby for post. 
Our investigator explained this didnt change his view and the matter has now been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr I that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
As part of Mr Is agreement, hes required to make the minimum payment by a specified date 
each month. No payments were made to the account in February 2020, so Amex sent Mr I 
two letters in February and four in March explaining itd been trying to contact him and he 
needed to make payment to his account immediately. A number of these letters also 
explained that the account would be cancelled if the outstanding minimum payments werent 
paid. These letters made Mr I aware that he needed to make a payment on his account and 
what might happen if the minimum payment wasnt made. I note what Mr I says about living 
in a flat and not checking for letters. Whilst I dont think this is a likely explanation for missing 
six letters from Amex, checking his post was Mr Is responsibility and he ran the risk of 
missing something important if he didnt do this for weeks on end. So, I cant say Amex did 
anything wrong in this regard and I agree with our investigator that Mr I shouldve got in 
contact sooner than he did to discus his situation with Amex.
Following the letter of 21 March, Mr I phoned Amex. He says wires were crossed about how 
long he had to make the February minimum payment. Whilst I acknowledge being given 
incorrect information wouldve been frustrating, Im not persuaded this is what happened 
here. Although Amex no longer has the relevant call recordings, it has sent us the detailed 
notes taken down during Amexs review of Mr Is complaint as well as the contemporaneous 
notes made at the time. Im persuaded by this evidence that its more likely Mr I was told 
hed need to make the oldest minimum payment by 19 April 2020. I say this because the 
notes Ive seen reflect and this go into significant detail about what was explained by the call 
handler about the 90-day deadline after which the account would be closed and how this 
could be delayed, what was said by Mr I and what would happen next. Even if I thought Mr I had been confused by the conversation on 24 March with Amex, I dont 
think it impacted him in the way he describes. I say this because Mr I had been given 
consistent and clear information prior to this about what might happen to his account if the 
minimum payments remained outstanding. So, I think he ought to have reasonably been 
aware that his account would be cancelled if he didnt make a payment. And he always had 
the opportunity of checking this with Amex if he was unclear.
I note Mr I says he wasnt comfortable giving his bank details to Amex. But I cant see this 
was requested. The form wouldve taken Mr I through an assessment of his income and 
expenditure which Id expect a financial institution to do in this type of situation. Id also 
expect for someone in Mr Is situation to cooperate with these requests. I appreciate Mr I 
says he wasnt comfortable giving this information or joining the Regain program. But it was 
made clear what would happen if he didnt  the matter would be passed to a DCA  and this 
is what happened. So I cant see that Amex did anything wrong here.
Mr I feels the context of the whole situation needs to be taken in to account. And he has said 
he was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, which impacted his ability to find work as 
quickly as he would usually. I was sorry to hear Mr I had lost his job and that this was an 
emotionally and physically difficult time for him. But he lost his job in November 2019 and 
first missed the minimum payment in February 2020 so this doesnt quite match the timeline 
of the start of the first lockdown as these events  including the job application process 
before the resultant job offer on 26 March  predate it. So, I dont feel, based on everything 
Ive seen, that this was a relevant consideration in this matter. Ive thought about the fact that 
Amex offered Mr I the option of the Regain program, subject to him giving information about 
his income and expenditure. Ive also considered that overall, Mr I was given 90 days to 
make the oldest minimum payment but didnt. So, Im afraid I dont agree with Mr I here - I do 
think Amex gave due consideration to his circumstances. And, having done so, I dont agree 
that Amex acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr I raises other concerns about the conduct of the DCA the debt was passed to. But this 
isnt something I can consider in this complaint. Mr I can raise a complaint to the DCA direct 
and, if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be able to return to our service about this. 
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Amex to cancel his account when it 
did and record a default against him. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Amex did anything 
wrong or treat Mr I unfairly. It follows that Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman