DRN-3662763
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr S, a director of C, has complained on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held business interruption insurance with AIG. C claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AIG turned down Cs claim as they didnt think the policy provided cover. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, C brought its complaint to our service. It said the policy 
covered business interruption as a result of notifiable diseases and as Covid-19 was a 
notifiable disease, the policy should provide cover.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said the 
endorsement document set out that the notifiable disease clause in the policy had been 
amended to include a specified list of diseases and as Covid-19 wasnt on that list the policy 
didnt provide cover. 
C asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
C has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all Im not going to 
respond to them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issue to this complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AIG have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Cs claim. 
The Policy Changes 2019 Endorsement document which was part of Cs policy in 2019 says 
that the notifiable disease clause in the policy is deleted and replaced with: 
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within a one 
mile radius.
The endorsement document defines a notifiable disease as an illness sustained by any 
person resulting from any of a list of specified list of diseases. The list of diseases doesnt 
include Covid-19. I think this wording is relevant to Cs claim and have therefore considered 
whether AIG reached a fair and reasonable decision is saying that it doesnt provide cover.
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Cs policy 
is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is 
nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all 
and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Cs claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome C was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman