DRN-1880138
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly increased the credit limit on his 
credit card account and unfairly charged him interest and fees.
What happened
Mr D says he had a gambling addiction for many years which ought to have been obvious to 
Capital One. He says it increased his credit limit which was irresponsible as it led to further 
unaffordable spending. Mr D also says that he was charged fees and interest which he 
would like refunded and says Capital One didn't look at his bank statements which would 
have shown the level of his gambling. He would like interest paid on the refund and any 
adverse data removed from his credit file.
Capital One doesn't accept making a mistake or acting unfairly. It says Mr D opened the 
account in 2007 and in 2016 it increased his credit limit from £200 to £800. It also says its 
systems approved the increase based on Mr D's account usage and says any charges or 
interest were applied in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought we could only look at the 
complaints about what had taken place in the six years before the complaint was brought. 
The investigator thought the interest and charges were applied in line with account terms 
and conditions and that Capital One was under a duty to report accurate account information 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's). The investigator thought appropriate checks had 
been carried out before the credit limit increase and that Mr D hadn't told Capital One about 
his gambling problem.
Mr D accepts what the investigator says about the time limits but says his credit score was 
poor at the time, and he was using his credit card for gambling. He maintains the lending 
was irresponsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Capital One has dealt fairly with this complaint.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr D would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions say that Capital One will 
make charges in certain circumstances. So I don't think it has made a mistake here or acted 
unfairly by making such charges where for example there was a late payment or where Mr D 
exceeded his credit limit. I can't fairly order Capital One to refund those charges or any 
interest Mr D has paid in those circumstances.
I have carefully looked at Mr D's account history and can see that the account was opened 
in 2007 and that Mr D appears to have had a regular income throughout that period. I'm satisfied that in the 12 months leading up to the credit limit increase Mr D managed his 
account appropriately and on the whole made regular monthly payments as required. I also 
think the credit limit increase was relatively modest from £200 to £800 and in those 
circumstances I'm satisfied Capital One carried out proportionate and reasonable checks 
before increasing that limit. I think Mr D could have declined the offer if he wished.
I appreciate Mr D says he had a gambling addiction and that he has provided his bank 
account statements that show those transactions. But I don't think Capital One would have 
seen those account statements or would have been aware of the extent of any problems. I 
don't think Mr D told Capital One about such problems and in any event it's up to Mr D to 
decide what he uses his Capital One account for. 
So I don't think overall Capital One has irresponsibly increased Mr D's credit limit. And 
having looked at the information Mr D has given us about his credit file I can see that Mr D 
didn't have any defaults registered on it which I think also provides evidence that the credit 
limit increase wasn't irresponsible. 
Capital One has a duty to accurately report the position of its customers accounts to the 
CRA's. So I can't fairly order it to remove any adverse data it may have reported to the 
CRA's about Mr D's account.
As I don't think Capital One has made a mistake or acted unfairly then I can't order that 
it refund any charges or interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman