DRN-1188304
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account. She didnt know this was 
happening until she was stranded without any money. Then Barclays wouldnt let her access 
the money in her account. 
What happened
Miss W said Barclays decided to close her account. It sent her a letter to give her two 
months notice but she didnt receive this. So the first she knew of it was when she was left 
stranded with no money. 
Miss W then went into a branch to get back the money that had been in the account. 
Barclays initially said it couldnt release the money to her. She said this caused her to have a 
panic attack. This was a mistake by Barclays, and its paid £300 in compensation for this, but 
Miss W thinks it should pay much more. 
Barclays said it didnt think the decision to close Miss Ws account was a mistake. It 
accepted that the service shed received after this wasnt up to standard. But it wouldnt pay 
her any more compensation for that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays had closed 
Miss Ws account in line with its terms and conditions. Although Miss W didnt receive the 
letter telling her about this, it was sent to her. 
Our investigator said Barclays wasnt required to give Miss W an explanation of why it had 
closed the account. And she thought that Barclays had done enough to make up for not 
allowing Miss W to access her money right away once her account was closed. 
Miss W didnt agree. She said what had happened was severe, and the branch had caused 
a panic attack .She wanted Barclays to pay £2,000 for what it had done. Because she didnt 
agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the decision that Barclays took to close Miss Ws account. I think that was in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. Barclays doesnt have to offer Miss W a 
banking service. And it doesnt have to give a reason why its going to close her accounts, as 
long as it gives her the required notice. 
Barclays has shown us the letter it sent to Miss W about this. I dont have any reason to 
think that this letter wasnt sent. I know Miss W has told us she didnt get this, so she didnt 
know the account was closing. And that meant she was left stranded with no money. That must have been a very unpleasant experience. But I dont think its Barclays fault if Miss W 
didnt get the letter. 
Miss W was then wrongly told by Barclays that it would take several days for her to be able 
to access her money. That was wrong, and was also very upsetting for Miss W. She told us 
she had a panic attack. Barclays has paid £300 in compensation for that. 
I know Miss W thinks Barclays should pay a great deal more. But Im sorry to have to tell her 
that I dont agree. Any awards I make have to be in line with our services overall approach. 
And I dont think it would be in line with our services overall approach if I awarded Miss W 
£2,000 for this complaint. 
Ive considered this case carefully, and I think the £300 that Barclays has already paid 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I know Miss W will be 
disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to do more now. And that means I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman