DRN-3732374
The complaint
Ms L complains that Vitality Health Limited has declined a claim she made under her private 
health insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L has a representative whos made submissions on her behalf about this complaint. For 
simplicity, Ive only referred to Ms L in my decision  this includes any submissions made by 
the representative.
Ms L held a private health insurance policy with Vitality since 2 February 2019. The policy 
was underwritten on a moratorium basis, which meant that pre-existing medical conditions 
from the last five years before the policy start date were excluded. However, these could 
become eligible for cover if the policyholder hadnt consulted anyone for treatment or advice, 
or taken medication, for that condition for two continuous years after the cover start date.
Ms L made a claim to Vitality on 17 February 2021 for treatment for depression. Ms L said 
shed been suffering from the symptoms since 5 February 2021.
Vitality declined the claim because it said this was a pre-existing condition. It noted that Ms L 
had sought GP advice for her symptoms of depression over several years, the latest one 
being in November 2015, which was within five years of the policy start date. Vitality also 
said that Ms L had been given regular prescriptions for an anti-depressant since 2013. 
Vitality said that this also meant the condition hadnt become eligible for cover, as Ms L 
hadnt had two continuous years free of any medication, treatment or advice for her 
condition. Unhappy with Vitalitys position, Ms L brought a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He thought Vitality had acted fairly 
and reasonably when it declined the claim. This was because Ms L had consulted her GP 
about the condition in the last five years, and shed continued to regularly be prescribed 
medication to manage the condition since then. So, he thought Vitality had acted fairly by 
saying the condition was caught by the moratorium terms, and therefore not covered by the 
policy.
Ms L didnt agree with our investigators findings. In response to the investigators findings, 
Ms L says she doesnt dispute the condition was pre-existing. But she disputes the policy 
terms for when such a condition can become eligible for cover  specifically, that this is 
when the policyholder hasnt taken medication for that pre-existing condition for two years 
after the cover start date. 
In short, Ms L says that she didnt consult her GP about her condition since 2015. So, the 
medication she continued to take wasnt for the condition anymore  rather, she only 
continued to take it out of habit and due to lack of review and advice to discontinue.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms Ls complaint.
The relevant policy terms for moratorium underwriting say the following: 
We will not pay for treatment of any medical condition or related condition which in the 
five years before your cover start date you:
have received medical treatment for
had symptoms of
have asked advice on or
to the best of your knowledge were aware existed.
This is called a pre-existing medical condition.
However, subject to the plan terms and conditions, a pre-existing medical condition can 
become eligible for cover providing you have not:
consulted anyone (e.g. a GP, dental practitioner, optician or therapist, or anyone 
acting in such a capacity) for medical treatment or advice (including check-ups), or
taken medication (including prescription or over-the-counter drugs, medicines, 
special diets or injections)
for that pre-existing medical condition or any related condition for two continuous years 
after your cover start date.
The policy defines treatment as Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) 
that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Ms L said in the claim form that I have had depression [and] anxiety before but it has been 
well controlled and has not ever caused absence from work [and] has not involved suicidal 
thoughts. Ms Ls GP said in the same form that Patient has history of depression but over 
the past few weeks it has been significantly worse. The GP also noted that Ms L had been 
on anti-depressant medication since 2013, and the dose was recently increased.
Ms L doesnt dispute the condition was pre-existing. For the avoidance of doubt, I think 
Vitality acted fairly and reasonably by saying it was. Both Ms L and her GP have referred to 
a history of depression, Ms L had seen a GP about her mood/anxiety in November 2015, 
and shed been regularly prescribed anti-depressants since 2013. As the policy start date 
was in February 2019, I think Vitality acted in line with the above policy terms when it said 
Ms Ls depression was a pre-existing condition.
Its not in dispute that Ms L didnt consult anyone about her condition between 
November 2015 and February 2021. And when she made the claim, shed held the policy for 
just over two years. But Vitality says that as Ms L continued to be given regular prescriptions 
for an anti-depressant medication since 2013, the pre-existing condition hasnt become 
eligible for cover.Ms L doesnt dispute that she continued to take the anti-depressant medication. But she 
says it wasnt for the pre-existing condition  rather, she hadnt been advised to discontinue 
taking it. Ms L says she knew she shouldnt stop taking medication without medical advice to 
do so.
Ive thought carefully what Ms L has said. But I dont think Vitality acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it said that as Ms L had continued to take anti-depressant medication, 
which is used to treat and manage depression, the pre-existing condition hadnt become 
eligible for cover. I havent seen any medical evidence to suggest that this medication was 
prescribed for anything else. I dont think Ms L saying that she continued to take it as she 
wasnt advised to discontinue it is enough to say Vitality applied the terms unfairly here.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms L, but I think Vitality acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy, when it declined her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint about Vitality Health Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman