DRN-3035770
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) wont refund a transaction hes 
disputing. He says he authorised a credit card payment to what he thought was a dating site 
 but it took more than he was expecting, and he now thinks it was a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Although the amount is disputed, Mr D used his card details to consent to execute 
the payment transaction. So, the starting positionin line with his account terms and 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017is that hes liable for the transaction.
That said, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice, Id expect 
Clydesdale to have systems in place to monitor for indications that its customers are 
at risk of fraud. In some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to 
make additional checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that led 
to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Clydesdale liable. 
I appreciate that Mr D thinks the dating site company is a scam. But Ive not seen 
enough evidence to confirm this. In any event, given the size of the payment (just 
under £200), it didnt reasonably appear unusual or suspicious. So I wouldnt have 
expected Clydesdale to complete further checks before acting on Mr Ds payment 
instruction. 
Mr D says he called Clydesdale around half an hour after making the payment  and 
it failed to stop it going through. But as soon as the payment was authorised and 
processed, it was too late to stop it. So Im not persuaded this was a failure by 
Clydesdale to prevent the loss. I think some confusion may have arisen around this 
point because, as the payment had already gone through, Clydesdale instead 
directed Mr D to possible ways to recover the funds.  
To this end, Clydesdale looked into raising a chargeback claim. This is a voluntary 
scheme whereby the card-scheme provider decides how to resolve payment 
disputes. Clydesdale isnt obliged to raise a chargeback claim, but Id consider it 
good industry practice to have done so if the claim was likely to succeed. 
It would be down to Mr D to support his claim. But he hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence of the misrepresentation hes alleging  such as information from the 
company confirming how much he was expecting to pay. So, in the circumstances, I 
consider it reasonable that Clydesdale didnt put the claim forward. Based on the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded the claim was likely to succeed.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, borrowers also have the right
under certain conditionsto make a like claim against a creditor for 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract by the supplier. So Clydesdale could 
have considered this as a section 75 claim. But theres no evidence to show that the 
company made a misrepresentation or otherwise breached its agreement with Mr D. 
Without that, I cant fairly direct Clydesdale to refund Mr D on those grounds.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr D, who understandably feels upset about whats 
happened. But Im not persuaded Clydesdale can fairly and reasonably be held liable for his 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman