DRN-3896968
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy with Paysafe Financial Services Limiteds (trading as Neteller) decision to 
close his account and retain his funds.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr Z opened an account with Neteller and made deposits into it. In 
February 2020, Neteller conducted a review of Mr Zs account. Following the review, Neteller 
decided to close his account with immediate effect. At the time Mr Zs balance was around 
under $3,000 USD.
Neteller asked Mr Z to provide a bank statement, ID document and a selfie photograph as 
part of its verification process, so that it could return Mr Zs balance to him via an account he 
had with another bank. The documents Mr Z provided failed that verification check. So 
Neteller didnt release Mr Zs balance.
Mr Z was unhappy about the actions taken by Neteller, so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by one of our investigators who said Neteller hadnt done anything 
wrong. Mr Z disagreed. He says hes submitted various documents including bank 
statements and doesnt understand why Neteller wont release the money in the account 
back to him. He wants to be told exactly what is wrong with the documents hes submitted to 
Neteller. He says he needs the money returned to him and the whole experience has made 
him feel very unwell.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything,  I dont think that Neteller have treated Mr Z unfairly 
and so I am not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I know Mr Z wants to know exactly what the problem is with the documents hes 
provided Neteller. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  
for example, if it contains information about other customers, security information or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Neteller has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to 
share a lot of detail with Mr Z, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Ill next deal with Netellers decision to close Mr Zs account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has 
had their account closed.
I know Mr Z is upset that Neteller closed his account. But having looked at all the information 
available to me, including Netellers actions and the information its provided Im satisfied 
that Neteller had sufficient grounds to close Mr Zs account and did so in line with the terms 
and conditions when it closed the account. So, I cant say Neteller has treated Mr Z unfairly 
when it decided it no longer wanted him as a customer.
The crux of Mr Zs complaint is that he wants the funds in his account, which is just is around 
£3,000 USD returned to him. It seems Neteller is willing to release the money to Mr Z. But in 
order to do so Mr Z has to complete Netellers verification process. I can see that Neteller 
has clearly explained this to Mr Z on more than one occasion. And told him that this process 
is its standard procedure. So, Im satisfied that Mr Z understands what he needs to do in 
order to satisfy Netellers request. Im also satisfied that Neteller has these processes in 
place in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations when providing accounts to 
customers. So, I cant say Neteller have done anything wrong by asking Mr Z to provide the 
documents and withholding the funds. 
I appreciate that Mr Z has supplied Neteller with a number of documents over a period of 
months. And that not having access to the funds has caused him trouble and upset. But I 
can also see that Neteller has told Mr Z what he needs to provide in order for the funds to be 
released to him. Neteller has also confirmed that the documents provided by 
Mr Z to date arent acceptable. So, its up to Mr Z to now provide the information necessary 
in order to be sent the funds. And Im not going to ask Neteller to do anything more.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr Z feels about whats happened. I dont doubt it was 
a frustrating and worrying time. And Im sorry that the complaint has impacted Mr Zs health. 
So, I realise Mr Z will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I cant say Neteller have acted unreasonably and treated Mr Z unfairly in taking 
the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman