DRN-3390779
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as F, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC 
processed a foreign cheque.
The director of Fs operating company, Mr L, brings the complaint on the partnerships 
behalf. He is represented in doing so by Mr P.
What happened
F attempted to pay a foreign cheque for just over $1,800,000 into its Barclays account on 
2 April 2019.
Foreign cheques cant be put through the UK clearing system and have to be dealt with in 
one of two ways  known as negotiation and collection. 
Fs cheque was paid in on a negotiation basis but Barclays declined this and opted to 
process the cheque on a collection basis instead. However, the payer then rejected the 
cheque on a collection basis.
The bank wrote to F on 1 May 2019 returning the cheque, advising that it hadnt been paid 
by the issuing bank. But F didnt receive this letter because it was sent to an old address, 
which it says was due to an error by the bank in failing to process a change of address 
request back in 2018. 
Concurrently, F was in touch with Barclays on a number of occasions to query the delay in 
the funds crediting its account. 
Barclays initially responded to Fs queries to advise that cheques could take up to six or 
eight weeks to clear when processed on a collection basis, which would account for the 
delay  even after 1 May, having returned the cheque as unpaid. But on 11 June 2019, the 
bank confirmed to F that the cheque had been returned unpaid as the issuer didnt accept 
cheques paid on a collection basis  and so the cheque had been posted back to F. It said F 
would need to arrange an alternative method of payment with the issuer.
F subsequently followed up with the payer and payment was successfully made by wire 
transfer on 23 September 2019.
F says that Barclays is responsible for the delay in it receiving these funds. It says it made 
errors in its initial handling of the cheque, meaning it didnt begin to process the cheque until 
15 April. It then failed to notify F that the cheque had been returned unpaid, writing to an 
incorrect address because it hadnt acted on an instruction to update the partnerships 
address in 2018. F says the funds were to be used to settle a bridging loan taken out in 
anticipation of the payment in question, with the delay resulting in it being charged interest 
for longer than necessary and which it wants Barclays to reimburse.
Barclays accepts that there was a delay of two weeks in processing the cheque initially but 
says this isnt outside of its usual timescales for processing cheques in this way and, in any 
event, didnt lead to the losses that F has claimed. It says it properly notified F of the 
returned cheque  with its letter having been sent to the correspondence address it held on 
file for the partnership. And it says this wasnt changed in 2018 because F hadnt provided 
the required notice to the bank to process this.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Fs complaint earlier this month, setting out why I thought it 
should be upheld in part. I said:
Barclays initially accepted the cheque on a negotiation basis, before deciding two 
weeks later that it was only willing to process it on a collection basis. That was a 
decision that the bank was entitled to make but, as it has already acknowledged, 
there was an unnecessary delay in initiating the collection process. It was never 
going to agree to negotiate the cheque and that ought to have led it to collect the 
cheque at the outset.
The fact that the cheque was then unable to be processed through collection wasnt 
down to an error on Barclays part. The payer didnt accept collection items. Barclays 
then returned the unpaid cheque to F in line with its usual process. While I cant see 
exactly when the payer rejected Barclays request, it doesnt seem there was an 
unreasonable delay on the banks part in relaying this to F. It wrote to F on 1 May 
2019. This was a little over a fortnight over it had initiated the collection process, so  
bearing in mind the time it wouldve taken to get the payers response to this  this 
timeframe seems reasonable.
Barclays took appropriate action in returning the unpaid cheque to F and explaining 
what had happened. It was then up to F to arrange alternative payment. Problems 
began to arise, though, because F didnt receive this letter. But I dont think that was 
down to an error on Barclays part. I can see that the bank wrote to F at the 
correspondence address that it held on file for the partnership. Its accepted that F 
contacted Barclays about updating its address in 2018, but the last record of contact 
on that matter shows that the bank confirmed to a representative of F in April 2018 
that it had not received an instruction and asked it to be resubmitted. It doesnt 
appear that the bank received anything further about the request, so Fs address 
remained unchanged on its system.
F had been in regular contact with Barclays about the cheque prior to its return. Fs 
representative emailed the bank on 7 May 2019 to request an update  with the 
partnership evidently not having received the letter sent on 1 May. At this point, 
Barclays ought to have advised F of the position as set out in that letter. But it didnt. 
On a number of occasions thereafter, the bank continued to advise F that the cheque 
had been sent for collection, was with the payers bank and that payment was still 
expected (for which it gave an estimated date of 28 May). It was only on 11 June that 
Barclays confirmed the position  making F aware that the cheque had been returned 
unpaid and that it would need to contact the payer to arrange an alternative means of 
payment.
So while I think Barclays took an appropriate step in notifying F of the unpaid cheque 
by letter on 1 May 2019, it ought also to have confirmed this to F on or shortly after 
the partnership sought an update on 7 May  given it was apparent that the 
partnership remained unaware of what was happening. Unfortunately, it failed to do 
so  and instead misinformed F with reassurances that the cheque collection process 
was underway. I think this meant F was then delayed in following up with the payer to 
arrange an alternative means of payment by around five weeks. It was always going to be in that position and so I dont think that any delays that arose thereafter are 
down to Barclays.
F says that the delays in obtaining the payment at issue meant that it was delayed in 
repaying a bridging loan and therefore had to pay additional interest as a result. So 
Ive thought about whether Barclays should compensate F for this, but based on what 
Ive seen so far I dont think it should. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
While I dont agree with Barclays point that it cant be held for any consequential 
losses that F may have sustained simply because its terms and conditions restrict its 
liability, it is right to say that the legal position generally requires such losses to have 
been a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the wrongdoing in order to be 
recoverable from the party at fault. I dont think thats the case here. 
Fs claimed losses arise from a pre-existing, short-term bridging loan that had to be 
repaid on 11 January 2019. Thereafter, high penalties would be incurred as long as 
the loan remained outstanding  with a fee of 5% of the loan balance (equating to 
around $91,000) falling due each month until it was settled. I dont think such losses 
wouldve been reasonably foreseeable to Barclays. I cant see that the bank was 
made aware of the loan, Fs intention to use the funds at issue to repay it or of the 
significant penalties F would face if it was delayed in doing so. As noted above, F 
was in touch with Barclays about the cheque on a number of occasions after its 
deposit to chase progress  but Ive not seen that it said or did anything to put the 
bank on notice as to these possible consequences of any delay, referring only very 
generally to onward payments to make.
That said, even if I were to accept that the losses claimed were reasonably 
foreseeable to Barclays, Ive not seen that F actually suffered the financial loss  
being the payment of additional interest  that it has described. While the drawdown 
and repayment of the capital amount borrowed under the loan can be seen in 
payments into and out of Fs account, the additional interest amount cant be seen in 
the same way.
F has explained that no other cash payments were made and that the loan was 
settled by a property transaction. It says the bridging loan provider is a shareholder in 
a company that purchased some land from F  and the consideration for that 
purchase ($325,000) was the amount required to repay the loan, including all the 
interest that had accrued on it, which the lender accepted in settlement of the loan. 
So no money changed hands. And the consideration given for the purchase doesnt 
seem to have been the result of an independent valuation, but rather a figure arrived 
at between the two parties that suited their purposes. It seems most likely to me that 
the transaction wouldve happened in just the same way even if Barclays hadnt held 
things up by the six weeks or so outlined above. I think F would still have gone ahead 
with the transaction and it wouldve been utilised as the settlement of Fs obligations 
under the bridging loan agreement.
In short, I cant see that F is in any different position as a result of the delays on the 
banks part than it otherwise wouldve been. I dont think it actually paid any 
additional interest or that it suffered a loss in ascribing a higher consideration to the 
property transaction that would always have been utilised to settle the bridging loan. 
So Im not intending to require Barclays to pay any compensation in this respect.
I do, though, think that F was put to some inconvenience by the banks errors. As it 
wasnt advised of the correct position when raising enquiries from 7 May until 11 
June, it continued to chase things up unnecessarily with a number of calls and emails to the bank during this period. Its right that F is compensated for this inconvenience, 
for which I think £250 is fair. 
Barclays accepted my provisional findings, but F didnt. Mr P said that while the level of the 
interest on its loan couldnt reasonably have been foreseen, some loss wouldve been a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence. So he thought Barclays should compensate F for the 
period of delay for which it was responsible by paying interest at HMRCs late payment 
interest rate of 3.25% on the funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fs response to my provisional findings focuses on how it should be compensated for the 
impact of Barclays error. Ive considered what Mr P has said, but having done so Ive not 
reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill explain why his 
comments havent changed my view.
I agree that it wouldve been reasonably foreseeable that F could suffer a financial loss as a 
result of being deprived of its funds. But our approach to compensation is to put the 
complainant in the position they would be in had the error not occurred  and so I can only 
compensate F for any financial losses that it actually suffered. As F has told us, it was only 
ever going to use the funds in question to settle the loan. So it would not have derived any 
other benefit from them. And while it settled the loan later than it otherwise wouldve done, 
Ive not seen that it suffered a financial loss in doing so. 
So I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to pay F a return on its funds that it 
wouldnt have obtained even if the bank hadnt made an error. I remain of the view that it is 
therefore only a matter of compensating F for the inconvenience it was caused in having to 
chase the matter up unnecessarily, for which I still think £250 is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay F compensation of 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman