DRN-3263744
The complaint
Mr S complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his combined
home emergency and home building insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr S contacted Fairmead to make a claim for storm damage. A ceiling had
collapsed because of water entering his house through the damaged roof. He says he asked
for some immediate assistance but was told his policy doesnt provide this cover. He was
advised to arrange a roof repair to prevent further water getting into his house.
Mr S says he was told someone would call the following morning to progress his claim under
his building insurance policy. In the meantime, he contacted an emergency roofing repair
company and paid for a patch repair of the roof. This was carried out in the late afternoon.
Fairmead says its systems werent working correctly on the day Mr S made contact. It says
this contributed to its mistake in thinking his policy didnt have home emergency cover. It
says it corrected its error the following day when it spoke to Mr S again.
Fairmead declined Mr Ss claim for storm damage. It says the reported wind speeds and
rainfall didnt meet the criteria set out in the policy terms. Fairmead says the roofers report
Mr S obtained showed the cause of the damage was a lack of maintenance. It says the
policy doesnt provide cover where a lack of maintenance is the cause. It says the wind and
rain had only highlighted the pre-existing maintenance issue.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld the complaint. She found that Mr S did have cover in place for the cost of
the temporary repairs, under the home emergency part of the policy. She thought it fair that
Fairmead should pay the cost of these repairs, as well as £150 for avoidable damage due to
the delayed temporary repair. She felt £150 compensation was appropriate to acknowledge
the distress and inconvenience Mr S had been caused.
Mr S agreed with this outcome, but because Fairmead didnt respond, it has been passed to
me to provide a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I will explain why I think this is fair.
The policy schedule confirms that Mr S has home emergency cover with a sum insured of
£500, it explains the annual cost of this is included under the buildings policy.
Under the Cover youve selected section the policy schedule says:
Home Emergency
Cover for call-out fees, labour costs and materials to make your home safe after an
emergency, such as a burst pipe or break-in. This cover is automatically included when you
choose Buildings and can't be taken out separately.
I think its clear from this that cover was in place to deal with the emergency Mr S reported.
Fairmead should then have dealt with the emergency at the time in line with the policy terms.
Fortunately, Mr S was able to arrange for a patch repair of his roof by 4.30pm on the day of
his claim. He says this prevented further rainwater entering his house and avoided causing
more damage.
Mr S says he paid cash to the roofer who completed the patch repair and doesnt have a
receipt to demonstrate the cost. He says the roofer charged £230. Based on Mr Ss
description of the work this doesnt seem unreasonable. At this time Fairmead had said no
cover was in place to pay for the temporary repair. Ideally, a receipt or invoice would have
been obtained. But its understandable Mr Ss focus was on weather proofing his home,
during a period of heavy rain. Fairmead had made clear it wasnt going to pay for this.
The policy terms set out the sum insured for the home emergency cover is £500. No excess
charges apply for this part of the policy. So, based on the amount Mr S says he paid for the
temporary repair, the full cost of this should have been covered. Because of this I think its
fair that Fairmead should pay Mr S £230 to cover the cost of the temporary repair.
I have also thought about the impact Fairmead rejecting the home emergency claim had in
causing further damage.
When he first contacted Fairmead to make a claim Mr S explained I have a collapsed ceiling
and water is pouring from the roof. I understand the collapsed ceiling was in his bedroom
and the water ingress had also damaged the carpet and other furnishings.
Mr S says he was in contact with Fairmead between half nine in the morning and midday on
the date of the claim. After speaking with the company, he then managed to contact a roofer
who carried out the temporary repair at around 4.30pm.
We asked Fairmead how long it would typically take to arrange for a roofer to attend this
type of emergency. It says it has no set timeframe but aims to provide a response as soon
as possible. How quickly this happens will depend on the resources available in the area.
Its possible had Fairmead not made a mistake, that a roofer couldve attended earlier. Mr S
first contact was around 9.30am approximately three hours before he made his own
arrangements for a roofer to attend. But from his account of events the ceiling had already
collapsed by the time he first contacted Fairmead. Presumably allowing water to damage the
bedroom carpet and other furnishings.
Mr S describes water pouring through the roof. This is supported by the weather reports of
heavy rain on the day of his claim. Because of this I think the damage reported was likely to
have occurred regardless of whether Fairmead couldve arranged a temporary repair earlier.
So, I dont think its fair that the company pays for the cost of repairing or replacing the
internally damaged areas or items.
Its clear this situation was stressful for Mr S to deal with. This situation is likely to be
stressful for anyone but was made worse for Mr S by the companys failure to arrange thetemporary repair. He was then inconvenienced by the need to make arrangements for a
roofer to attend. I think its fair that Fairmead pays Mr S £150 compensation to acknowledge
this.
Storm damage
Mr S claimed for storm damage under his buildings insurance with Fairmead. It declined the
claim as it says storm conditions werent experienced at the time. The company refers to its
policy definition of a storm that requires 47mph winds and/or rainfall of 25mm in a one-hour
period. Fairmead also looked at a roofers report Mr S was able to provide. It says this
showed issues with the roof that were caused by a lack of maintenance. It says the policy
terms dont cover damage caused in this way.
When considering this matter, I must establish if there were prevailing storm conditions at
the time of the claim. If Im not satisfied there were, I must decide if Fairmead ought to have
considered the claim under any other section of the policy.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
I have looked at the weather records around the date of the damage that was reported. This
shows storm conditions werent recorded at the time. There was some heavy rain, but this
didnt meet the storm definition in the policy terms. Because of this, the answer to the first
question is no, and I think it was fair for the claim for storm damage to be declined by
Fairmead.
I have also looked at the roofers report Mr S provided. This says:
Front of property. Right hand wall where lead is installed has deteriorated and split.
Flashing to right hand wall is coming out of brickwork. Leadwork to front bay has split due to
age and will leak. Rear of property. Two ridge tiles are broken, Two chimneys to be
repointed. Leadwork to both chimneys to be replaced. Gable end cement has blown. Five
broken tiles. Felt inside loft is 65%, rafters are in good condition overall roof condition is
65%.
The policy terms say:
Your home insurance policy covers the cost of unexpected loss or damage. It does not
cover:
wear and tear;
maintenance costs e.g. loose roof tiles;
damage that happens over time e.g. damp, rot and damage from vermin.
Its clear there are several aspects of Mr Ss roof that are not in a good condition requiring
maintenance and repairs. Because of this I think Fairmeads view is persuasive that the
problems reported with the roof are the result of a lack of maintenance.Mr S has extended accidental damage cover on his policy. I have thought about whether this
provides cover here. But the above terms also apply to the accidental damage cover. The
damage isnt covered where this is due to a lack of maintenance.
Having considered all of this I dont think Fairmead treated Mr S fairly in not arranging a
temporary roof repair. It should pay Mr S £230 to cover the cost of this and provide £150
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. But I dont think its failure to
arrange a temporary repair caused the damage internally. It also behaved reasonably when
relying on its policy terms and declining Mr Ss claim for storm damage under his building
insurance policy.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Fairmead Insurance Limited should:
-pay Mr S £230 for the cost of the temporary roof repair; and
-pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead responded to say it had no further comments.
Mr S responded to say he was satisfied by the decision and had nothing more to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepted my findings and Fairmead says it has no further comment to make. So, my 
final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I didnt think Fairmead treated Mr S fairly in handling his home emergency 
claim. Because of this its fair that it pays the cost of the temporary repair, and compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ss 
complaint and Fairmead Insurance Limited should:
-pay Mr S £230 for the cost of the temporary roof repair; and
-pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman