DRN-3986888
The complaint
Mr K says that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, has treated him 
unfairly regarding three transactions on his credit card towards managing some serviced 
accommodation.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr K used his Tesco credit card to make three transactions totalling £2700 
towards renting serviced accommodation from an individual whom Ill call Mr D. Mr K also 
used other credit cards with other businesses to pay a total of £8000 in similar transactions. 
Those matters are dealt with separately to this decision.
Mr K says Mr D agreed to improve the condition of the accommodation but then didnt. Mr K 
says that that Mr D changed the nature of the deal theyd made and also offered a refund. 
Mr K says he never got anything from Mr D in terms of either the accommodation or a 
refund. So he asked Tesco to look into it.
Tesco said it considered the dispute and concluded that there was insufficient evidence to 
proceed with a chargeback and nothing persuasive to show there had been a breach of 
contract. So it didnt think it could do anything more for Mr K. Unhappy with this conclusion, 
Mr K brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt that Tesco should have taken the Chargeback process as far as it could, 
and that it would have been successful. So he said Tesco should refund Mr K. Tesco has 
said it has done nothing wrong and has asked for a decision. So this complaint came to me 
to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier in February 2023 saying that I felt that Tesco hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr K has provided comments on that decision. Tesco didnt respond 
within the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ks further submissions in reply to my provisional decision, along with 
everything else submitted and argued beforehand, Im not persuaded to alter the position 
articulated in my provisional decision, a summary of the main arguments of which is below. 
So its my decision that this complaint doesnt succeed. I shall address Mr Ks further 
comments submitted in response to my provisional decision under the heading of further 
arguments.
The arguments in my earlier decision
This decision is solely about Tesco and how it considered Mr Ks dispute. Mr D, and entities 
he is linked to, are not within my remit and I cannot decide on them. The test is here whether 
Tesco treated Mr K fairly in its consideration of his dispute with Mr D and those linked 
entities. And just because Mr K feels Mr D has treated him badly it doesnt necessarily follow 
that Tesco has done something wrong. I hope I have made this crucial distinction clear.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short) sets out prerequisites for a successful 
Section 75 claim and when considering such a claim Tesco has to consider whether Mr D (or 
those linked entities) has breached the contract or misrepresented the contract. Here Tesco 
has argued that there is insufficient evidence to say that the contract has been breached or 
misrepresented.
Mr K says that he paid this money without ever receiving any contract or agreed terms. He 
says Mr D agreed to improve the quality of the accommodation but doesnt have any 
persuasive evidence to support this. And Mr K has supplied an invoice purporting to show 
hed not paid everything he was due to pay at least as far as Firm U were concerned. And 
Ive also seen text messages which show Mr D saying hed refund Mr K but also further 
messages that show Mr D saying that theyd made an agreement and Mr K wasnt fulfilling 
his side of that agreement.
I appreciate Mr K feels very strongly about this. But what was actually agreed and between 
whom is unclear here. And without an agreement and clearly two very differing positions 
(between Mr K and Mr D) it is very hard for Tesco to conclude what terms of the contract 
were breached and what the remedy should be. Particularly considering that the only 
document from the time shows Mr K didnt pay the total amount that Firm U expected him to 
pay and that the only thing being provided was a lease on a property. There was no mention 
in this document of the renovation work Mr K says was agreed.
Mr K has pointed to lots of online comment about Mr D which questions Mr Ds integrity. But 
just because Mr K feels hes lost out, it doesnt necessarily follow that Tesco has done 
anything wrong or should cover the cost of refunding Mr K.
All in all Im not persuaded that Tesco has done anything wrong by not refunding Mr K under 
S75 as Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to show Tesco has treated Mr K 
unfairly. 
Could Tesco have done more under Chargeback?
Mr Ks credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes giving 
Tesco an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the 
Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. And this is a mechanism for resolution of disputes 
between card holders and merchants which is decided on the basis of the network rules and 
the particular chargeback reasons set out in the network rules. This is in essence an internal 
process run by the network to resolve disputes. This service does consider raising a 
chargeback to be good practice if the card supplier considers the dispute has a reasonable 
prospect of success. 
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed or continue at 
any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
Mr K made the transactions in question in early August 2021 and accepts that he authorised 
the transactions. I can see he raised the matter with Tesco in October 2021. Having seen 
the messages Mr K points to and considered what Mr K said, I think its clear that Tesco couldnt raise a chargeback on the basis that Mr K didnt authorise the transactions 
originally.
As Ive described the chargeback reason codes under the card scheme are defined and set 
out and Ive considered them, but Im not persuaded that had Tesco pursued a chargeback 
through the card scheme it would have been successful. I say this because the terms of 
what was agreed between the parties is unclear and that although at one point the 
messages indicate Mr D was willing to refund, its clear by the time Tesco were on notice of a 
dispute that Mr D wasnt willing to make a refund and that Mr D was saying Mr K hadnt 
fulfilled his side of the agreement. I also note Tescos argument about the chargeback 
criteria requiring credible evidence as to the persuasiveness of the cardholders position and 
there being a lack of that here. I concur with that, there is very little persuasive evidence as 
to what was actually agreed, indeed who the legal parties were, and what the terms of 
agreement were. And one of the strongest pieces of evidence is the invoice which seems to 
show Mr K having not fulfilled his side of the bargain. So all in all Im not persuaded on 
balance that had Tesco taken the chargeback as far as it could that such a chargeback 
would have been successful.
Mr K says Mr D has acted fraudulently. I can see Mr D is a registered Company Director 
currently active on Companies House with a registered address. It is clear Mr K feels Mr D 
has treated him badly, however that doesnt necessarily make it fair that Tesco has to pay 
out here. It should only have to refund Mr K if Tesco did something wrong and was 
responsible for any such a loss.
Mr K points to the other financial services providers having made refunds to him on similar 
transactions linked to Mr D. I can see one firm offered Mr K a refund on a commercial basis 
with no acceptance of liability. That means it doesnt think it did anything wrong but for other 
reasons is willing to refund Mr K. This doesnt demonstrate Tesco did anything wrong. And 
Ive considered the evidence from Mr K regarding another bank. And Im not persuaded that 
this shows Tesco did anything wrong either. So although I can see why Mr K points to these 
firms, theres nothing in that evidence that persuades me that Tesco has done anything 
wrong here by not refunding him.
Mr K points to certain rules and guidance around certain types of frauds. Firstly Mr Ks 
interpretation of those isnt a wholly accurate representation of what those say about being 
refunded. And furthermore it is clear that what happened here was a very different type of 
matter and far more akin to a civil dispute between parties over a deal for accommodation 
where evidently relationships have broken down. So Im not persuaded Tesco should have 
treated this matter differently to how it did.
I can see that Tesco considered the customer service it provided Mr K and offered £30. Ive 
considered what happened here and I think thats a fair solution to the customer service 
aspect of what happened.
Further Arguments
Mr K has made a number of comments agreeing with various points Ive made, so in the 
interests of brevity and as those points arent in contention Ill not address them here.
Mr K has said the apparent £4000 outstanding balance on the invoice was never discussed 
or agreed. However there are text messages showing Mr D saying Mr K hasnt met his side 
of the bargain (which is the text Im referring to from Mr D that Mr K supplied to this service). 
So there is clear evidence that there is a dispute between the parties as to what the 
agreement made was. So I dont think I have enough persuasive evidence here to conclude that Tesco has treated Mr K unfairly by saying it couldnt establish that there was sufficient to 
refund Mr K under chargeback or S75.
Mr K said he got refunds from the other banks. But as Ive explained just because those 
banks paid out doesnt mean Tesco has done anything wrong. And Ive not seen anything 
persuasive from those other banks to demonstrate Tesco did something wrong. And it is 
clear one of those banks making refund explicitly said it wasnt liable but was doing so as a 
gesture of goodwill.
I appreciate Mr Ks argument that our Investigator upheld his case originally, but Im satisfied 
that for all the reasons given Tesco doesnt need to do anymore.
Mr K says all the payments went to entities owned by Mr D. And I agree that those entities 
appear to be associates, but it is clear the invoice Mr K provided doesnt show any remedial 
work being agreed, and Mr K says it shows an outstanding balance which wasnt agreed. 
The fact remains that what was actually agreed is unclear and it is clear from the text 
messages that both Mr D and Mr K have very different views of what happened and that 
there is very little documentary evidence for Tesco to base its consideration of what 
happened on. So Im not persuaded Tesco has acted unfairly here.
Regarding my comment about authorisation of the transactions. The point I made was that 
as Mr K accepts he made these transactions willingly by authorising Tesco to pay them, 
Tesco couldnt raise a chargeback saying he didnt willingly authorise them.
Mr Ks asks a question about evidence for chargeback. The chargeback rules require 
supporting evidence to be supplied to support the chargeback being put to the merchant. 
Other than what Mr K says there is very little documentary or other evidence that Tesco 
could submit alongside the chargeback which means it was unlikely to succeed from the 
beginning in my mind.
Mr K says successful chargebacks were made by the other banks. Im not persuaded by 
this, as although Mr K has said he was refunded this isnt evidence that the chargebacks 
were successful. And even if there was such evidence it doesnt follow that Tescos 
chargeback would have necessarily succeeded considering the lack of supporting evidence.
So having considered all the evidence here including Mr Ks later representations Im not 
persuaded that Tesco has done anything wrong that requires it to refund Mr K these 
transactions. So his complaint doesnt succeed.
I appreciate Mr K will not welcome this decision and I appreciate he says hes lost a lot of 
money. However it is clear to me that there is no persuasive evidence here showing that 
Tesco has done something wrong here in how it considered S75 and chargeback. Im sorry 
that Mr K says hes lost out, but Im not persuaded that Tesco needs to refund him as I dont 
think that would be fair on Tesco.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, 
and it has nothing further to do in this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman