DRN-3254052
The complaint
Miss J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund to her the amount that shes 
claimed for some childrens clothing. 
What happened
Miss J made chargeback claims to Barclays for some payments totalling £4,885.42 that she 
made from her Barclays bank account in December 2020 and January 2021. The payments 
were made to an overseas merchant for some childrens clothing that she was going to sell 
through her business but she says that the clothes had mould and dead bugs on them when 
they arrived. She says that shed contacted the merchant and it had offered her a 30% 
discount which she didnt accept because the clothing couldnt be sold. 
She says that Barclays told her to dispose of the clothing and that shed receive a refund but 
that didnt happen so she complained to Barclays. It upheld her complaint in part because it 
hadnt issued letters to advise that all of her claims were closed and that the customer 
service that shed received wasnt of the standard it aimed to provide - and it offered to credit 
her account with £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It said that it had been 
unable to evidence that Miss J was instructed to dispose of the goods, the merchant had 
made multiple resolution offers and it would have needed compelling evidence to refute 
them, and the scheme rules dont make allowances for instances in which the goods cannot 
be returned to the merchant. It also said that it didnt believe that the chargeback would have 
been likely to succeed on the basis of the evidence that the merchant provided. Miss J 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
merchant disputed the chargebacks, provided evidence of delivery and explained that it 
wouldnt refund the money if Miss J didnt return the clothing. Miss J had told him that she 
wouldnt return the clothing due to the cost of shipping it overseas and that shed disposed of 
it. He didnt consider that Barclays had advised her to destroy the clothing. Barclays had 
acknowledged that Miss J received some poor service and offered £75 compensation which 
he felt was fair but he believed that the outcome to her chargeback claim was correct as she 
was unable to return the goods. Miss J has asked for her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Barclays contacted the merchant about the issues that Miss J had with the clothing 
and it said that it had made multiple resolution offers but that Miss J would need to 
return the clothing to it;
Miss J told our investigator that she wouldnt return the clothing due to the cost of 
shipping it overseas and that shed disposed of it but shes not provided any photos 
or other evidence to support her claim that the clothing had mould and dead bugs on 
it  I consider that it would be reasonable to expect her to have been able to provide 
some such evidence to support her claim;
Miss J says that she was told by Barclays to dispose of the clothing and that she 
would receive a refund  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that she was advised to dispose of it or that the payments would be refunded to her - 
and I consider that it was reasonable for the merchant to require her to return the 
clothing for a refund;
the merchant had disputed that Miss J was entitled to a refund and I dont consider 
that there was a reasonable prospect of chargeback claims being successful in these 
circumstances so Im not persuaded that Barclays decision to close Miss Js 
chargeback claims was incorrect;
Barclays accepts that it hadnt issued letters to advise that all of Miss Js claims were 
closed and that the customer service that she received wasnt of the standard it 
aimed to provide and it offered to credit her account with £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused;
I consider that its offer was a fair and reasonable response to the customer service 
issues and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
pay her more compensation to her than its already offered to her  if Miss J now 
wants to accept that offer she should contact Barclays; and
I sympathise with Miss J for the issues that shes had with the clothing, the loss that 
shes suffered and the difficulties that shes experienced, but I find that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays to refund to her the payments that she 
made for the clothing, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman