DRN-2667596
The complaint
 Mrs G complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC bounced a cheque she sent to a payee 
abroad. Mrs G says that her payee lost money because of changes to the exchange rate, 
and shed have to reimburse the payee.
 
What happened
 Mrs G wrote a cheque for £6,258 and sent it to a payee in Canada. The payee took it to her 
bank on 15 August 2019. On that day the value in Canadian dollars was CAN$9,822.56.
On 22 August, Barclays rang Mrs G asking for her security details in full. Mrs G refused. She 
said the person phoning had a foreign accent and it could have been anyone who was 
phoning. 
Barclays returned Mrs Gs cheque unpaid the same day. It wrote to Mrs G, saying The 
cheque is not signed in accordance with your signature mandate. Please arrange to sign the 
cheque in accordance with the signature mandate or make alternative arrangements for 
payment.
Mrs G received the letter the next day, and went to her local branch straightaway. The 
person she saw apologised, and said there was no problem with Mrs Gs signature account 
mandate. He recorded on the banks notes that Barclays should have been much clearer 
about the purpose of the call, and should have asked for random characters not her security 
details in full. 
Mrs G sent the replacement cheque to Canada, went on holiday, and thought everything 
was sorted out. 
But then the payee got in touch with Mrs G. She said her bank had debited CAN$10,462.21 
when Barclays bounced the cheque, instead of the original credit of CAN$9,822.56. The 
payees bank told the payee this was because the exchange rate had changed, and also 
because of a £17.50 service charge made by the intermediate bank (the bank which had 
acted between Barclays and the Canadian bank). 
Mrs G complained to Barclays on 14 October. Mrs G said her payee was out of pocket by 
CAN$639.75, and shed have to reimburse her. 
Barclays:
- wrote promising an update by 31 October;
- on 31 October it wrote saying it expected to give her an answer by 20 November;
- on 20 November it wrote saying it would give an update by 10 December.
On 25 November, Mrs G wrote again. She said Barclays had had enough time, and she 
didnt want just another update. She set out the facts again.
On 10 December, Barclays said it would be in touch again by 10 January 2020.
On 3 January 2020, Mrs G went to see the branch manager at her local branch, because 
she just wasnt getting an answer to the problem which had started on 22 August 2019. She 
took a letter and supporting documents setting out details of what she said had been 
appalling service, and said no-one was dealing with it, just sending updates. She said she 
hoped the local branch manager would be able to resolve this more quickly. 
On 27 January, Barclays sent Mrs G a final response letter. The letter said:
 Were sorry that the cheque returned unpaid, and agree it was a bank error that caused it. 
Barclays refunded Mrs G for the service charge.  But it said that Mrs Gs payee had received 
CAN$10,433.96, so the payee had benefited and there hadnt been any financial loss.
Mrs G didnt agree, and contacted this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He said he could see some differences in 
the signature from Barclays records, and that Barclays had tried to contact Mrs G but she 
wasnt willing to complete security. He thought it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to have 
bounced the cheque. And he said there hadnt been a financial loss anyway, because the 
payee had eventually received more. 
Mrs G didnt agree that this was fair. She said her signature mandate had never been 
questioned either before or since  including on the replacement cheque. And the branch 
had apologised and had told her that there was nothing wrong with her signature, and had 
paid her £75 as a gesture of goodwill. She asked why the branch would have done this if 
there hadnt been a mistake. 
Mrs G also said that when Barclays rang about the original cheque on 22 August, it had 
been someone with a foreign accent asking for all her bank details. She said of course she 
was unwilling to complete security over the phone in these circumstances, because with so 
many scams going about. She asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. 
I noted that in its final response, Barclays had accepted liability for bouncing Mrs Gs cheque 
when it shouldnt have done. But it had disputed whether there had been any financial loss. 
So I contacted the Canadian bank. They helpfully obtained their account holders consent, 
and then told us about the credits and debits relating to Mrs Gs cheque. 
This is what the Canadian bank said had been credited and debited to their account holder: 
 Deposit August 15th, 2019: $9,822.56
 Deposit August 27th, 2019: $9,822.02
 Return Chq September 4th, 2019 $10,462.31
The Canadian bank said the reason code for the bounced cheque was **Encoding
Error on Chq.
Barclays final response had accepted liability, but said there hadnt been a financial loss. So 
I asked Barclays whether, in view of this evidence, it would refund Mrs G with the difference 
between CAN$10,462.31 which was debited on 4 September, and CAN$9,822.02 which was deposited on 27 August. That would put Mrs G in the same position as if the original 
payment had gone through at CAN$9,822.56 on 15 August. I recognised that Barclays had 
already paid Mrs G part of this, a service charge of CAN28.35, which would leave 
CAN$611.94. I suggested this should be paid on the basis of the relevant exchange rate on 
the day in question, 15 August 2019.
Barclays refused. 
Barclays reply contradicted what it had said on its final response letter, and also what the 
branch had said. And it said it shouldnt have paid her the £75 compensation, or refunded 
the service charge, either. 
Barclays said:
- it had decided it was necessary to phone Mrs G about the cheque on 22 August 
because her signature on the cheque was different from a previous signature, and 
the cheque wording wasnt complete, it had had no option other than to decline 
payment when Mrs G refused to give her security information over the phone; 
- it said the way it had managed this complaint set a very unrealistic expectation with 
Mrs G that we had made a mistake when in fact we hadnt.
- it said that when it had agreed to cover the service charge incurred, this too was 
incorrect and shouldnt have been paid. But it accepted it had managed the 
complaint journey poorly and offered £100, in addition to the £75 paid, making £175 
in all. 
- Barclays also said that the Canadian bank had dealt with the cheque using the 
incorrect process. So it said any loss would have to be disputed with the Canadian 
bank.
- And Barclays said that Mrs G had previously made international payments to the 
same payee by direct payments. It explained that this meant shed incurred fees from 
Barclays, so it assumed Mrs G had used a cheque this time in order to avoid paying 
a fee. Barclays said that if Mrs G had used the direct payment method, none of these 
issues would have happened.
I considered the evidence, and Barclays completely new version of events and its 
arguments, in two sections: Mrs Gs financial loss, and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Financial loss 
It was clear from the evidence from the Canadian bank that there was a financial loss, 
because the amount debited to the recipients bank when Barclays bounced the cheque was 
more than had originally been credited. Taking account of the service charge for which 
Barclays refunded Mrs G, this was CAN$611.94.
I considered whether Barclays made an error which caused this, such that it should 
reimburse Mrs G. This is separate from the customer service issues.
Banks have security responsibilities and if they have doubts about a cheque, are entitled to 
refuse to pay it. I looked at the cheque which bounced:
- The missing wording referred to by Barclays is the word pounds. The words said 
six thousand two hundred fifty eight without saying what currency thats in.  A bank 
could bounce the cheque for that reason, and I considered it was particularly 
important when the cheque was being sent abroad.  - To me, the signature on the bounced cheque didnt look very different from those on 
the previous sample cheques which Barclays sent to us. And I was aware the branch 
said, both to Mrs G and on the bank notes, that there wasnt a problem with the 
signature. But I explained that Im not a handwriting expert and not qualified to 
disagree.
As Barclays was entitled to refuse the cheque on these grounds, I couldnt say that it was 
wrong to bounce the cheque. This meant that it wouldnt be appropriate for me to order 
Barclays to refund Mrs G for the difference suffered on the exchange rate.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I considered that the service Barclays gave Mrs G was very poor indeed.
- I could understand why Mrs G refused to provide information when Barclays 
contacted her. I realised that this might be a part of Barclays process, but equally 
Mrs G had said that she was worried about this call being a potential scam. If the call 
came from a call centre abroad, this would have increased her concerns. So in the 
circumstances here, I could completely understand why Mrs G didnt want to give her 
details to Barclays.
- Barclays procedures didnt offer any alternative ways of checking the validity of Mrs 
Gs cheque, once shed refused to give her details over the phone. Banks are entitled 
to choose their own procedures, but there were many options which could have been 
followed at that point, eg involving her local branch, or writing a letter to ask her to 
get in touch. Not having any fall-back option when a customer was understandably 
concerned about giving security information on a cold call, was very poor customer 
service.
- Mrs G complained on 14 October 2019. She didnt get a reply from Barclays until 27 
January 2020. Thats significantly outside the standard eight week timescale for 
financial businesses to deal with complaints. Mrs G wrote again to Barclays when all 
she was receiving was monthly update letters. And she went again to the branch, 
taking all the details with her. It was only after shed done this that she eventually got 
any substantive reply. All this took place before the Covid 19 crisis started, so that 
wasnt the cause of the delay.
- In Barclays final response letter, it got the facts wrong about the amounts which had 
been credited and debited to Mrs Gs payee, and as a result said there had been no 
financial loss. Mrs G had given the figures, and if Barclays was sceptical and needed 
to check the figures, it could have asked for evidence from the Canadian bank, as 
this service did. 
- Barclays then changed its mind about its final response, saying that it made an error 
in paying Mrs G any compensation. This applied to the £75 which the branch paid to 
Mrs G because the branch considered there was nothing wrong with the signature. 
And it also applied to the service charge refund which it awarded her in its final 
response letter. Although banks can change their mind about an outcome, its poor 
customer service and bad practice to accept an error has been made and 
compensation paid, but then go back on this. I wasnt persuaded by the wording in 
Barclays recent email to us saying that it its management of the complaint journey 
had set a very unrealistic expectation with Mrs G that we had made a mistake when 
we hadnt. What Barclays was now saying was that it was going back on its final response and the compensation, which both its own branch and its final response 
author both considered fair at the time.
- I wasnt persuaded by Barclays argument that the Canadian bank processed Mrs 
Gs cheque the wrong way, so the dispute should instead be against the Canadian 
bank. Mrs G wrote the cheque; it was her cheque which bounced; and Mrs G was 
Barclays customer. So I said that Mrs G was eligible to bring a complaint against 
Barclays about its involvement in this situation.. It was poor customer service for 
Barclays to say  particularly at this late stage - that Mrs G cant bring a complaint 
against Barclays.
- Barclays was also now saying that Mrs G wouldnt have had any of these issues if 
shed made a direct payment to her payee  which it says would have incurred a fee. 
While its true that a direct bank payment might have fewer problems (being lost in 
the post, as well as disputes about the signature) there are other issues that can 
arise with direct bank payments. And there was no ban on sending a cheque abroad, 
which was a legitimate means of transferring money. So I considered it was  
unreasonable for Barclays to argue that Mrs G should have used a fee-incurring 
service instead.
I noted that the situation had been ongoing for a considerable period of time now and 
Barclays position had changed throughout dealing with this complaint. That would only have 
served to confuse and frustrate Mrs G further. Taking this and all of the other factors Ive 
mentioned into account, I considered that Barclays should pay Mrs G an additional £500 
compensation here. I thought that was fair for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
delays, conflicting messages, and very poor management of her complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted the provisional decision.
Mrs G said that she was thoroughly annoyed and disgusted with the way Barclays had 
handled her query, and the length of time it had taken to reach a conclusion  between 
August 2019 and February 2021, despite the fact that she was a loyal long-term Barclays 
customer. Mrs G said that it was beyond her why Barclays couldnt understand the debit and 
credit exchange rate financial loss. She said that all she needed now was closure to the 
episode.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.  
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mrs G an additional £500 compensation. This is for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its delays, conflicting messages, and very poor management of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman