DRN-3833149
The complaint
Mr G complains about the lack of information given to him by I Go 4 Ltd relating to payments 
owed on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G took out a car insurance policy using I Go 4 Ltd as the broker with payment being 
made by direct debit monthly instalments. The policy involved installation of a telematics 
device used to assess driving behaviour. A few months after the start of the policy, a driving 
review was carried out which showed the driving score had dropped so an additional 
premium of £53.07 was applied. Mr G made a payment but the policy was then cancelled, so 
Mr G complained. I Go 4 Ltd responded and explained, when Mr G spoke with their 
representative to make payment, they didnt inform Mr G that a defaulted monthly instalment 
was due as well as the additional premium. I Go 4 Ltd accepted there had been an 
administrative oversight and agreed to waive the outstanding additional premium owed.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He recommended I Go 4 Ltd pay an additional 
£75 compensation. Mr G agreed but I Go 4 Ltd disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and what the 
parties are disputing. The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. I Go 4 Ltd have 
admitted they got things wrong when their representative didnt inform Mr G that the 
additional premium was owed in addition to arrears on his direct debit payments. Mr G says 
he contacted the representative and asked for details of all outstanding payments owed and 
he paid the figure which the agent told him. This sum didnt include the additional premium, 
so this remained outstanding and is what led to the policy being cancelled. I Go 4 Ltd accept 
this was an oversight. The only issue I have to decide is whether their offer to waive £53.07 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that I Go 4 Ltd should compensate Mr G for the shock, worry and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by I Go 4 Ltd and what the impact of that 
error has been. 
Mr G says he was shocked when, after making payment to the representative for all sums he 
was told were outstanding, his policy was then cancelled. Mr G explains he was worried he 
didnt have insurance cover and this then caused him inconvenience in having to take the 
day off work to get things sorted. So, I think there has been an impact on Mr G here. That 
said, its only fair and reasonable to balance this with the steps I Go 4 Ltd took when Mr G 
contacted them to discuss the issue. I can see I Go 4 Ltd reinstated the policy the same day 
it was cancelled so there was no gap in cover. The additional premium owed has been 
waived so I agree with I Go 4 Ltds point that this represents compensation for Mr G. 
However, I dont think this goes far enough to reflect the impact on Mr G. 
I understand I Go 4 Ltd believe £53.07 is fair compensation in this case but I dont believe 
this puts Mr G back in the position he wouldve been in had the error not occurred. I think the 
single biggest impact on Mr G here is being told his policy was cancelled. I understand I Go 
4 Ltds point that the additional premium was rightfully owed and remained outstanding when 
they cancelled the policy. But, its not unreasonable for Mr G to have assumed all 
outstanding payments had been made when he contacted the representative. So, it follows, 
he was understandably shocked when being told his policy had been cancelled. I accept the 
issue with the cancelled policy was resolved the same day so the impact of any worry to    
Mr G was limited as well as any inconvenience as it appears this was resolved following one 
call to I Go 4 Ltd. So, while I accept parts of the impact were limited, there was a greater 
impact caused by the shock to Mr G  and this is why I think the compensation should be 
higher than the £53.07 offered. 
So, taking account of the combined impact on Mr G, I think I Go 4 Ltd should pay Mr G £75 
compensation in addition to the £53.07 already waived.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that I Go 4 Ltd made an error by not informing Mr G that the additional 
premium was owed in addition to the arrears on his direct debit payments. So, in addition to 
the additional premium waived, I Go 4 Ltd should pay Mr G an additional £75 for the shock, 
worry and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I Go 4 Ltd must pay Mr G compensation of 
£75 in addition to the additional premium theyve waived.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman