DRN-1865002
The complaint
Mr S complained that after his car was stolen Ageas Insurance Limited trading as ageas 
declined his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss car was stolen from his home but recovered damaged by the police. Ageas wouldnt 
pay his claim. This was because he could only account for only one of the two keys that 
came with the car and they thought that he hadnt done anything to minimise the chance it 
could be stolen. They relied on their policy exclusion about that.
Mr S felt that his car could have been stolen using specialist equipment or techniques to 
access locked cars. But Ageas thought it was more likely than not that a key coded to the car 
had been used. So Mr S complained to us. 
The investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He said that the policy was clear in what was 
required for the theft to be covered and Mr S only had one of the cars two keys. He thought 
that Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably on the evidence when theyd decided on the 
balance of probabilities to apply the policy exclusion. Mr S disagreed so the complaint has 
been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In refusing his claim Ageas relied on their policy which said in Section C Fire & Theft:  
What is not insured
Loss of (or damage to) the car :
- When no one is in it, unless all its windows, doors, roof openings or hood are closed and
locked and all keys or devices needed to lock the car are with you or the person
authorised to use the car.
If an insurer claims an exclusion applies, they need to establish, on balance, that it was more 
likely than not that the thieves gained access to the car using a key belonging to and coded to 
that car. Its not for us to decide how a car could be stolen, as thats a matter for the experts, 
insurers and engineers.
Mr S said that when he bought the car in 2017 it came with two keys. He then lent the car to 
a friend from about July 2017 to December 2018. When he took his car back, his friend said 
that hed lost one of the keys. 
The car was stolen from Mr Ss home, about 6 months later, in June 2019. He said he was 
no longer in contact with the friend. 
Ageas said that Mr S hadnt done anything to safeguard his car from theft, such as recode 
the one remaining key, or change the locks, even though he knew that one of its keys was  
missing. 
But Mr S said that hed only had one key when he took out the policy and Ageas hadnt 
asked him then how many keys he had. And if they had, he would have told them the truth. 
But we wouldnt expect an insurer to ask that. And we wouldnt expect an insurer to bring the 
policy exclusion to his attention first. Thats because we think its reasonable for an insurer to 
expect that a consumer will keep all the keys safe and do whats necessary to safeguard his 
car from theft and damage. But wed still expect Ageas to apply that exclusion fairly and 
reasonably. So did Ageas act fairly and reasonably in declining his claim on the evidence 
they had ? In doing so they are entitled to rely on their expert evidence. 
When Ageas at first declined Mr Ss claim they felt that hed given them different accounts of 
events. They said hed mentioned that his house had been burgled 18 months ago, but Mr S 
denied having said that. Ageas accepted they made a mistake about that but said it wasnt a 
factor they used to decide to decline his claim. So I think they clarified that satisfactorily.
Mr Ss car was stolen from his home at night. Ageass file notes about the theft say that 
there was no glass/debris, which might suggest that entry to the car wasnt forced. The 
police report didnt say there was forced entry. 
Theres been a lot of focus on whether the car was locked or not when it was found by the 
police. Ageas said their approved repairer told them that it was locked. Ageas thought that 
meant that the thieves must have used a key. So it was one of the reasons Ageas gave for 
declining his claim. Mr S said it wasnt locked when he saw it after the police had recovered 
it, but that was later. The police report doesnt confirm that it was locked when they found it. 
But I dont think it matters whether it was locked when the police found it, as that was not the 
sole reason for Ageas declining his claim.
Ageas accepted that its possible for cars to be stolen without keys. They said that their 
engineers had considered various alternative possibilities that Mr Ss car was accessed 
using a specialist device, to override or intercept the cars locking system. But because Mr 
Ss car required a key to unlock it , to do that and start the engine would have required a 
combination of different theft techniques and devices. So Ageas thought that made theft 
without the key unlikely . The investigator has gone into the details of this with Mr S and 
Ageas so I wont repeat that here. The investigator has also spoken to the cars 
manufacturer who said that signal interception techniques for unlocking the car wouldnt 
work on his car as it didnt have keyless entry but required a key. And so this made it unlikely 
that the thieves could have accessed the car without a key. 
C still felt that his car must have been stolen without using a key. He said that an engineer 
had confirmed this to him and shown him how it was done. He hasnt however provided any 
written engineer report . 
He gave us a video which supposedly shows his car being unlocked without a key using a 
device but, as the investigator said, we cant know that it was locked to begin with. Hes also 
referred us to online videos which show it can be started without a key. Mr S felt it was 
plausible that his car had been stolen using the techniques he suggested and that the 
equipment and intelligence to do so was available on the internet. 
But even though Ageas accepted that it could be possible for a car such as his to be stolen 
without a key, that doesnt mean that Ageas were wrong to refuse his claim. They have to 
look at all the evidence and look at that possibility against the background that there was a 
key which could open his car, but it wasnt in his possession, it had been missing for about 6 months before the theft, and he didnt do anything to safeguard his car from the risks that 
caused. He didnt recode the remaining key or change the locks for example. So he hadnt 
safeguarded his car. Looking at that and at the technical  evidence as whole, I cant say that 
it was unreasonable for Ageas to rely on the exclusion clause and decide as they did. 
I do see that it must have been very distressing for Mr S to have his car stolen and have his 
claim denied, but I dont find that Ageas have done anything wrong, and so I dont require 
them to do anything else. 
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
