DRN-3274192
The complaint
Miss M has complained through a representative that she wasnt provided with a hard copy 
of the policy document for the breakdown policy Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
arranged for her. 
Ill refer to Miss Ms representative as Mr S.
What happened
Miss M took out a car insurance policy through Hastings in April 2021. The original policy 
incorrectly included a named driver twice and personal accident cover instead of breakdown 
cover. To correct these errors Miss M took out a new car insurance policy through Hastings 
with breakdown cover. She wasnt charged anything for the original policy.
Miss M emailed Hastings on 18 April and asked them to confirm her policy had gone live 
from that day and that her breakdown cover was also live. She said she hadnt received any 
documentation from Hastings or the breakdown cover provider. Hastings replied by email on 
19 April and said theyd attached a copy of Miss Ms policy documentation, which included 
the information on her breakdown cover. Miss M replied to this email and said that, as 
discussed, she looked forward to receiving her Hard copy through the post. Miss M 
followed this email up with an email on 20 April in which she asked for a hard copy of her 
car insurance by post. She said she didnt have a printer and wanted a paper copy as a 
reference. Hastings responded to Miss M by email on 21 April to say theyd sent her policy 
documentation by post. 
Miss M emailed Hastings again on 27 April and thanked them for sending her car insurance 
documents. She pointed out the details of her breakdown cover did not give her a reference 
number or a telephone number to call if she broke down. Hastings replied by email on 28 
April. They explained that if Miss M needed to call the breakdown cover provider she should 
call the number theyd included in the email and give her registration number, name and 
location. They added that all the information was in the posted copy of the documents that 
she should receive shortly. Miss M then emailed Hastings on 2 May and said she found it 
necessary to request again a hard copy of her breakdown cover membership pack and 
number. Hastings responded the same day to say that all she needed to do was contact the 
providers number. They also said theyd attached a copy of Miss Ms Welcome Pack, which 
had all the information regarding her breakdown cover. 
Mr S then complained to Hastings about a number of things on Miss Ms behalf. However, as 
far as I can see, these things didnt include the fact she had not received a hard copy of her 
breakdown cover membership pack. Mr S has said he included reference to this in his 
complaints to Hastings CEO on 6 April and 16 June. But, Ive seen his letter of 6 April and 
he didnt refer to the fact Miss M hadnt received a copy of her breakdown cover documents 
in this, although he did mention the fact breakdown cover hadnt been added to Miss Ms 
policy originally. Ive not seen a copy of his letter of 16 June, but from Hastings records it 
doesnt seem that they received it. This is not to say Hastings didnt receive it, but from the 
records theyve provided to us I just cant see that they did. 
As a result Hastings provided a final response to the complaint points Mr S had made and 
offered Miss M £30 compensation for the poor service theyd provided in a couple of 
respects. But, they didnt comment on the fact Miss M hadnt been provided with a hard copy 
of her breakdown cover membership pack. 
Mr S asked us to consider Miss Ms complaint about the complaint points hed raised. Our 
investigator later realised Mr S also wanted us to consider Miss Ms complaint about the fact 
shed not been provided with a hard copy of her breakdown cover membership pack. He told 
Hastings about this and asked them to consider this specific complaint and provide Miss M 
with a final response on it. Hastings didnt provide a final response and Mr S asked us to 
consider this complaint once the period they had to do so had expired. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ms complaint. He told Hastings that he thought they 
should have picked up on the fact that Miss M wanted a hard copy of her breakdown cover 
documents and sent these to her by post. He pointed out the full details were included in an 
additional products document which Miss M had been given access to online. And he felt 
Hastings should have realised they needed to send Miss M a hard copy of this. He further 
explained that he thought their failure to send it had caused Miss M distress and 
inconvenience and that Hastings should pay her £50 in compensation for this. 
Hastings dont agree with our investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theyve said they provided Miss M with details of her breakdown cover with the policy 
documents they sent her, along with the phone number she needed to contact the provider 
on when she asked for it. Theyve mentioned that she asked them to send her a copy of her 
membership pack, but there isnt a membership pack. So they think they did enough by 
providing a copy of the policy documentation. 
Mr S told our investigator in a telephone call that he agreed on Miss Ms behalf with the 
amount of compensation hed suggested.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Hastings should have realised Miss M wanted a copy of the 
document providing the full cover details of her breakdown cover, irrespective of whether 
there was a membership pack. They knew Miss M wanted full details of her breakdown 
cover and there was an additional products document shed not received by email or post 
that provided these. So, I think it was clear from Miss Ms email of 2 May this is what 
Hastings needed to send to her. But, in response, all Hastings did was repeat the number to 
call if Miss M broke down and referred to the fact all the information was in her Welcome 
Pack. When in fact all her Welcome Pack included was the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) for the breakdown cover and a reference to the fact she had this cover. 
The IPID only provides very limited information about the cover. Whereas the additional 
products document provides the full contract details. And I think as Miss M had referred to a 
membership pack it should have been clear to Hastings what Miss M needed to be sent, ie 
the additional products document. 
Putting things right
I also agree with our investigator that Hastings failure to provide Miss M with a copy of the 
additional products document caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I accept 
this wasnt significant, in the sense that she knew she was covered and knew what number 
to call and that she just had to give her registration number if she broke down. But I think it was nonetheless distressing and inconvenient and does warrant a small compensation 
payment of £50. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint about Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited and award her £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman