DRN-4463547
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) unfairly recorded a fraud 
marker against him and refuses to remove it. 
What happened
Mr H held a current account with Virgin Money. In 2019, payments took Mr H into an 
unarranged overdraft. Mr H said he lost his job at the time and was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Virgin Money wrote to him several times to advise that if he didnt repay the debt 
owed, his account would be closed and a default marker would be registered against him. Mr 
H said he buried his head in the sand as he was in debt. But he also said he tried contacting 
Virgin Money on a number of occasions prior to the debt defaulting. He said he was passed 
to a few departments and was told the account was closed and the money was written off 
and there was no way for him to pay this balance. He said this happened on a few 
occasions, including in branch where they advised a payment couldnt be taken from him as 
the account was with collections. 
Mr H said he discovered Virgin Money recorded a Cifas marker against him for evasion of 
payment as he was unable to open accounts with other lenders. He complained that this 
was not fair given the circumstances. 
Virgin Money issued its final response explaining that it sent Mr H multiple letters providing 
him with options on how to clear the arrears. It said the letters advised that if the outstanding 
amount was not repaid, his credit file would be affected. As it didnt receive the funds from 
him, a Cifas marker was registered in line with its processes and procedures, and the 
balance was written off and it stopped chasing him for payment. It acknowledged a call Mr H 
had with it on 12 November 2019 where its colleagues advised the account was no longer 
active, it noted that Mr H said hed pay back the balance owed but received no further 
payment. It concluded it made no error in recording the Cifas marker. It did however 
recognise that it delayed in responding to his complaint and offered him £50 compensation 
for the delay. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. 
In Virgin Moneys response to this service, it said it made reference to a Cifas marker being 
placed on Mr Hs credit file but it believed this was incorrect as it was a CAIS marker which 
was recorded and apologised for the confusion caused. Mr H provided evidence that Virgin 
Money recorded a Cifas marker against him on 6 November 2019. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. He didnt think Virgin Money fairly recorded the 
Cifas marker against Mr H and suggested that it be removed. Mr H agreed but Virgin Money 
didnt. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for review. 
Before issuing this decision, I requested additional information from Virgin Money which it 
duly provided. I explained to Virgin Money (and Mr H) that I didnt think the Cifas marker was 
correctly recorded and provisionally said I intended to award an additional £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Virgin felt its recording of the Cifas marker 
was correct and asked me to proceed with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
While a business is a member of Cifas (as Virgin Money is), that business must operate 
within the terms of the National Fraud Database Handbook. This sets out eight principles of 
use, including guidance on when a member can record information on the database. The 
guidance explains members can only record information with Cifas if its supported by 
evidence that meets four pillars burden of proof. These include (amongst others):
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous
In summary a business cant apply a Cifas marker because it suspects fraud. It needs 
sufficient evidence to back up what its alleging and a criminal offence must be identifiable  
so the business could confidently report the consumer to the police. It also needs to retain 
this evidence for a period the marker is active. When considering these standards, my 
interpretation of the bar for recording a Cifas marker is a high one. I must also take into 
consideration what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, I dont find 
that the marker was applied correctly here, and Ill explain why. 
Mr H had regular salary credits going into his Virgin Money current account with the final 
payment being in January 2019. Those salary credits ceased after this time. Ive also noted 
that Mr H regularly used gambling websites when he received a regular salary. After Mr Hs 
salary credits stopped, its clear from looking at Mr Hs statements that he struggled to 
maintain his regular payment commitments. I saw that he disputed a few payments with 
Virgin Money that took him into an unarranged overdraft before the account was brought 
back into credit. In other words, whilst I dont see that Mr H explicitly told Virgin Money he 
was in financial difficulties, I think Virgin Money could have reasonably concluded this by 
reviewing the significant change in his account activity. 
Virgin Money wrote to Mr H on 18 March 2019 explaining that his account was in an 
unarranged overdraft of £22.89 and he needed to make a payment to clear the balance. 
Further letters were sent about the outstanding balance owed on 25 March 2019 and 8 April 
2019. Mr H paid money in to clear the balance on 12 April 2019. 
On 5 June 2019, Virgin Money wrote to Mr H to explain he was in an unarranged overdraft 
and needed to pay £92.26 to clear the balance. On 12 June 2019, Virgin Money wrote to Mr 
H to reiterate its previous letter. It wrote to Mr H again about the balance owed on 19 June 
2019. Mr H brought his account back into credit again. 
On 1 August 2019, two payments totalling £97.27 debited Mr Hs account when he only had 
an available balance of £31.06. Virgin Money wrote to him about his overdrawn balance of 
£66.21 on 9 August 2019. On 2 September 2019 and 14 October 2019 Virgin Money wrote 
to Mr H about this balance again and advised unless the outstanding amount was paid it 
would register a default against his credit file. On 1 November 2019, Virgin Money wrote to Mr H to advise that he can no longer use his account and it had applied to register a default 
against him. 
On 6 November 2019, Virgin Money applied a misuse of facility Cifas marker against Mr H 
for Evasion of payment. 
On 12 November 2019, Mr H called Virgin Money and queried the outstanding balance. He 
asked if he could arrange a payment plan to repay the debt owed, the adviser said:
it looks like your account is due to be closed very shortlythe account would be closed
Mr H asked again if he could set up a payment plan to repay the debt over two or three 
months. The adviser said, we cant, he said as the account has passed the 90 day mark it 
would just be closed. The adviser went onto explain if Mr H wanted to apply for another 
current account, he could look on its website. Mr H said he wasnt bothered about keeping 
the account open, he was just wanting to sort the balance. The adviser paused the call for 
a while, when he returned he said Mr H could pay the outstanding balance and it would be 
marked on his credit file and hed have six months to do so. 
In my view, this was a missed opportunity for Virgin Money to provide positive assistance to 
Mr H. Im unclear as to why the adviser told Mr H that he had six months to repay the 
balance when the account had defaulted at the point of the phone call. Further to this, as 
Virgin Money explained in its final response, it wrote the balance off after the default and 
didnt chase Mr H for any further payment, so he wouldnt have been given any further 
options to repay the debt owed as suggested in the call. 
Whilst I think Virgin Money explained the implications of Mr H not repaying the outstanding 
balance, in that Mr Hs credit file would be impacted with a default marker. I think the 
suggestion that Mr H had committed or attempted to commit fraud in the circumstances is 
unreasonable. 
As already explained, Mr Hs account was in an unarranged overdraft on more than one 
occasion after losing his job. He brought it back into credit on more than one occasion and in 
November 2019, he contacted Virgin Money to arrange repayment of the debt owed, he did 
not disengage with it. These dont appear to me to be the actions of someone intent on 
defrauding a business. He did appear to be in financial difficulties and contacted Virgin 
Money to repay the outstanding balance  albeit three months after Virgin Money initially 
wrote to him to say this payment was due. 
In my judgement, I dont find that falling into financial difficulties or poor management of 
finances reasonably amounts to a fraud or financial crime. And as the required burden of 
proof outlines, members must have reasonable grounds to believe that one of these has 
been committed or attempted. It must also have robust evidence that supports the 
consumers conduct or actions were deliberate and intentionally dishonest such that they 
could be confidently reported to the police. I dont find that Virgin Money has been able to 
demonstrate that here. I think Virgin Money ought to have reasonably identified that Mr H 
was in financial difficulties prior to loading the marker but it most certainly had sufficient 
evidence to remove its loading when Mr H offered to repay the outstanding debt on 12 
November 2019. I find that Virgin Money did make an error in loading it.
 
Putting things right
Virgin Money offered £50 compensation for its delays in responding to Mr H. As this point 
hasnt been disputed by Mr H, I make no finding on it other than Virgin Money should 
arrange the payment as offered. Cifas markers do have a detrimental impact on a consumers finances. However, I recognise 
that a default marker would also have had a similar impact, so I cant say with any certainty 
that the Cifas marker alone would have caused the difficulties in Mr H obtaining credit. But I 
do find Mr Hs testimony plausible that his inability to open bank accounts is likely due to the 
Cifas marker incorrectly recorded against him by Virgin Money. I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Virgin Money to pay Mr H an additional £200 for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused him.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money), to:
Remove the Cifas marker loaded against Mr H. 
Pay Mr H a total of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman