DRN-2483058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined part of their claim 
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs P have a single trip travel insurance policy with 
URV. They planned to depart the UK on 21 May 2019 and travel by overnight ferry to 
Spain, arriving on 22 May 2019. After two nights at their first destination, they planned to 
travel by train on 24 May 2019 to another city in Spain in order to attend a wedding. 
On 20 May 2019, the travel provider cancelled Mr and Mrs Ps ferry. Mr and Mrs P 
booked a flight direct to their second destination, departing the UK on 21 May 2019. 
They also booked accommodation for the additional nights. 
The travel provider refunded the cost of the ferry and two nights accommodation.          
Mr and Mrs P made a claim against their policy. URV initially declined Mr and Mrs Ps 
claim under the cancellation provisions but then considered their claim under the travel 
disruption section of the policy. It offered to settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim in relation to their 
UK and Spanish train costs. URV said that Mr and Mrs Ps additional flight and 
accommodation costs dont come within either the cancellation or travel disruption 
sections of the policy.   
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs Ps claim doesnt come within the part of the 
policy entitled If you are not able to go on your trip. The issue for me to consider 
is whether URV acted within the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in declining  
Mr and Mrs Ps claim for additional flight and accommodation costs under the part of 
the policy entitled If your travel plans are disrupted (Policy B Section 1). 
Mr and Mrs P say that URV should pay their additional flight and accommodation  
costs as their ferry on 21 May 2019 was cancelled, which caused them to miss their  
connecting train on 24 May 2019. I dont agree and Ill explain why.
The relevant part of Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides that URV will pay up to £500 for 
additional room only accommodation and transport costs to enable them to catch up 
with their booked itinerary if they miss their connection because the outbound 
international departure is delayed. 
Mr and Mrs Ps ferry was cancelled, not delayed. But when deciding what we think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case of this nature, wed generally 
consider the ultimate impact of the situation on the consumer. As Mr and Mrs P were 
unable to arrange an alternative ferry, then the impact of the situation on them is the 
same as if the original ferry was delayed and then cancelled. So, I think its 
reasonable to look at Mr and Mrs Ps claim under this part of the policy. Thats the 
approach URV took when it offered to settle part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim under the 
travel disruption part of the policy. 
I dont think that URV acted unfairly in declining the part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim that 
relates to additional flight and accommodation costs. Thats because I dont think that 
Mr and Mrs Ps planned train trip, which was due to depart on 24 May 2019, can 
properly be described as a connecting train. 
The policy doesnt define connecting train but defines CONNECTING FLIGHTS 
as one which departs your first scheduled stop-over destination 12 hours after 
arrival from your international departure point. I share Mr and Mrs Ps reservations 
about using that definition for trains, given the obvious difference in the speed of 
travel and the limited nature of that definition. So, I think its appropriate to rely on the 
ordinary, natural meaning of connecting train.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs P planned to have two parts to their trip: first, from            
21 May 2019 to 24 May 2019 at one destination, then from 24 May 2019 onwards at 
a second destination. So, I dont think that the fact that their ferry on 21 May 2019 
was cancelled meant that they missed a connecting train. I think that Mr and Mrs P, 
quite sensibly, rearranged their plans to have longer at their second destination. 
Thats understandable but not something thats covered under the policy.
In addition, one of the conditions of this part of the policy is that Mr and Mrs P had 
checked in on time for the delayed (cancelled) outbound international departure. That 
wasnt the case here. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman