DRN-3470159
The complaint
Mr G, Mrs G and Miss G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat them fairly when 
they made a change of borrower application for their mortgage account. Barclays refunded 
the early repayment charge (ERC) and offered compensation. Mrs G says the amount 
offered doesnt reflect the distress caused and the time the matter has taken to sort out.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G had a joint mortgage with a family member, who Ill refer to as Mr G2. 
Mr G2 wanted to be taken off the mortgage account as he wanted to buy a property to live 
in. Miss G would be added to the mortgage. They contacted Barclays. Barclays asked about 
their income and commitments and said Mr G, Mrs G and Miss G would be able to afford a 
mortgage for the amount they wanted to borrow.
Barclays made an appointment for Mr G, Mrs G and Miss G to meet with a mortgage 
adviser. Barclays had made an error which came to light during the appointment. It hadnt 
included all of Miss Gs commitments in the affordability calculation during the initial call. 
Once these were factored in, the mortgage wasnt affordable. Barclays said they needed to 
apply for a new mortgage for a lower amount (£44,000 less). Mr G and Mrs G used £20,000 
of their savings and asked Mrs Gs parents for help with the rest. 
Mrs G says this caused considerable distress and embarrassment. She was upset about 
asking her parents for money and says this will affect her future inheritance. Shes 
particularly upset about this due to her parents ages. Mrs G says this caused Mr G to be 
embarrassed and depressed, at a time when his business was affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic and social distancing guidelines. 
Our investigator said while Mr G, Mrs G and Miss G had been caused upset, inconvenience 
and embarrassment Barclays offer of £750 compensation (in addition to refunding the ERC) 
was fair. 
Mr G, Mrs G and Miss G didnt agree. In summary, Mrs G said:
Barclays failed to respond to their complaint letters
The situation they were in was entirely due to Barclays incompetence
It was embarrassing having to ask her parents for financial help and to provide written 
confirmation they didnt have a financial interest in the property
The gift from her parents will affect her future inheritance and she had to tell her siblings
They had to use the £20,000 theyd saved for emergencies
The compensation offered is inadequate for being told to find £44,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs G spoke to Barclays on 13 November 2020. She asked about removing a family 
member (Mr G2) from their joint mortgage account and adding Miss G. Barclays asked for 
information about their income and outgoings and said the mortgage was affordable. An 
appointment was made with a mortgage adviser.
On 18 November 2020 Barclays said it had made an error on 13 November 2020. It hadnt 
taken Miss Gs rent payments into account. It said the mortgage wasnt affordable. Barclays 
said the only route Mr G, Mrs G and Miss G could take was to apply for a new mortgage for 
a lower amount. As this wasnt enough to repay the existing mortgage, they had to find 
£44,000.
The new mortgage completed in January 2021. Barclays applied an ERC of about £3,000, 
which it later refunded. It offered compensation. Barclays has offered further amounts of 
compensation to Mr, Mrs and Miss G, including after the complaint came to us.
Barclays accepts it made an error. I need to consider whether its done enough to put 
matters right. 
Mrs G says between 13 and 18 November 2020 Mr G filed his end of year business 
accounts with HMRC. His accountants had asked whether he wanted to claim tax 
allowances, which reduced his taxable income. Having been told the mortgage was 
affordable with the lower income he claimed tax allowances. Mrs G says by the time they 
were told otherwise Mr Gs accounts had been filed and couldnt be changed. Essentially, 
Mrs G is saying that if theyd been given correct information on 13 November 2020 Mr Gs 
accounts would have evidenced income sufficient for the change of borrower application. 
I asked Barclays if this was right, but it didnt respond. When considering what compensation 
is fair and reasonable, Ive considered the impact of Barclays error on Mr, Mrs and Miss G, 
including having to apply for a new mortgage and find an additional £44,000 instead of 
proceeding with the change of borrower application. 
First, I dont think Mr, Mrs and Miss G were caused a financial loss by the error. Barclays 
refunded the ERC. While Mrs G said they had to use savings to reduce the amount they 
borrowed, they owe less and will pay less interest as a result. Mrs G says receiving money 
from her parents now will affect her inheritance. Mrs G hasnt explained or provided 
evidence as to how this caused her a financial loss. Most likely this isnt a loss to Mrs G, it 
just means shes already received the money she would have later inherited. I assume there 
was a financial benefit to Mr G in claiming tax allowances.  
However, Barclays error did cause upset. Mr, Mrs and Miss G were told they had to apply for 
a new mortgage for a lower amount. This must have been disappointing, having been told 
only a short time before this that the change of borrower application was affordable. Mrs G 
told us that Mr Gs business was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. So the issues with the 
mortgage came at an already stressful time. 
Im not sure that the mortgage application process itself caused significantly more inconvenience as compared to the change of borrower process, which would also have 
required affordability checks. But its clear that having to find the necessary funds to reduce 
the amount of the borrowing did cause inconvenience and upset.
Mrs G says they had to use the savings theyd put aside for emergencies to reduce the 
amount of the loan. This was during a difficult time for Mr Gs business, so I can understand 
why theyd have preferred not to use these savings.
Mrs G said it was embarrassing for her and Mr G to ask her parents for financial help and to 
provide written confirmation they didnt have a financial interest in the property. And she had 
to tell her siblings. I appreciate the embarrassment this caused.
Mrs G said Barclays didnt respond to their complaint letters. Correspondence about this 
complaint continued for some time. I understand why Mrs G is upset about this. If Barclays 
had acknowledged its error and offered fair compensation at the outset Mr, Mrs and Miss G 
could have put this matter behind them. I should say here though that complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, which means this isnt itself something we can look into. We can 
look into how a complaint was dealt with if it affected the underlying problem being sorted 
out. I dont think that was the case here. The mortgage was moved into Mr, Mrs and 
Miss Gs names and Mr G2 was removed. The issue that remained unresolved was the 
amount of compensation.  
Its unfortunate that this happened during the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs G has told us that 
Mr Gs business was affected by the pandemic. Barclays wasnt responsible for the timing of 
the change of borrower application or for the wider circumstances at that time. There would 
have been some inconvenience involved in changing the borrowers responsible for the 
account, even without any errors by Barclays. And I dont think Barclays error led to a 
financial loss. Having considered what Mrs G has said, I think the compensation offered by 
Barclays is fair and reasonable for the additional inconvenience, stress and embarrassment 
caused by its error. 
My final decision
My decision is that in addition to refunding the ERC, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
£750 to Mr, Mrs and Miss G. Barclays can deduct from the £750 any compensation it has 
already paid in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, Miss G and 
Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman