DRN-3487259
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited failed to complete the transfer of his pension savings 
to another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr B originally held pension savings with Legal and General. In September 2020 Mr Bs 
pension savings, and those of many other customers were transferred to ReAssure with the 
agreement of the High Court. As part of that transfer, ReAssure took responsibility for any 
complaints arising from the actions of Legal and General before the transfer was completed. 
So, although Mr Bs complaint comprises activities both before and after September 2020 it 
is ReAssure that is responsible for dealing with it. For ease, in this decision I will simply refer 
to ReAssure as the responsible business throughout.
Mr Bs wife also held pension savings with ReAssure that largely mirrored those held by 
Mr B. She has also complained about delays she says she faced when requesting a transfer 
of her pension savings. I am dealing with that complaint separately. However given the 
identical nature of their complaints, I make no apology for the similarity of my two decisions.
Mr B first requested the transfer of his pension savings in March 2020. However, around that 
time, dealing in one of the funds into which his pension savings were invested was 
suspended by the fund manager. ReAssure told Mr B that it would not be able to transfer 
any of his pension savings to the new provider whist the suspension remained in place. The 
suspension was lifted in October 2020.
Following the end of the suspension Mr Bs financial advisor requested ReAssure to provide 
the necessary forms for the transfer to commence. Separate forms were issued to Mr B for 
the transfer of his crystallised and uncrystallised pension funds on 18 November. But four 
days later a duplicate form was issued to the financial advisor  but only in relation to Mr Bs 
crystalised pension savings. The form that had been sent to the financial advisor was 
completed and returned to ReAssure on 23 November.
It wasnt until 19 January 2021 that ReAssure notified Mr B that it required him to complete 
the form in relation to his uncrystallised pension savings before the transfer could be 
implemented. The additional form was returned on 8 February and the transfer was 
completed with the funds being sent to the new provider on 3 March 2021.
Following his complaint, ReAssure told Mr B that it didnt think it had been wrong to delay the 
transfer whilst the investment fund was suspended. But, after the suspension had been 
lifted, it didnt think it had completed the transfer as soon as it should. It told Mr B that it 
thought the transfer should have completed by 6 January 2021. So it sent him a cheque for 
£250 in respect of the inconvenience hed been caused and offered to contact the new 
provider to determine whether the late transfer had caused Mr B to lose out.
Mr B didnt accept ReAssures offer and returned the cheque uncashed. His complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. The investigator agreed with ReAssure that it 
was reasonable to delay the transfer request until the investment fund suspension had been 
lifted. But he thought that ReAssure had subsequently taken too long to complete the 
transfer. He thought that the transfer should have completed by 25 November 2020, allowing 
the transferred funds to be invested on 30 November.
The investigator asked ReAssure to pay Mr B £600 for the inconvenience hed been caused. 
And he asked ReAssure to calculate whether the delay had caused any investment loss to 
Mr B. ReAssure completed that calculation and showed that Mr B could have purchased 
additional investment units if the transfer had completed at the earlier date.
ReAssure agreed to pay the compensation that the investigator had recommended. And 
Mr B thought the investigators proposals were fair. But he remained concerned that 
ReAssure wouldnt actually pay the compensation and asked that an ombudsmans decision 
be issued. So the complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Both Mr B and ReAssure have accepted the basis of our investigators findings. But given 
the concerns that Mr B has expressed, and to provide a clear basis for the compensation 
that I am directing ReAssure to pay, I think I should consider the main aspects of this 
complaint.
It is clear that there was a significant delay in the transfer of Mr Bs pension savings to the 
new provider. He first asked that the transfer be made in March 2020, and the transfer didnt 
ultimately complete until around a year later. It seems to me that there were two contributing 
factors to that delay  the suspension of the investment fund, and the processing of the 
transfer by ReAssure following the suspension being lifted. I will consider each delay in turn.
Approximately 12% of Mr Bs pension savings were invested in a property fund. Trading in 
that fund was suspended in March 2020, around the same time as the initial transfer request 
was made. ReAssure had no control over that suspension, so I cannot say that it was 
responsible for that part of Mr Bs pension savings being unable to be transferred.
But it does seem that the remainder of Mr Bs pension investments were not affected by any 
trading suspension. So I have considered whether it would have been reasonable for 
ReAssure to complete a partial transfer at that time.My understanding is that ReAssure doesnt normally offer a partial transfer of pension 
savings. Here, had the partial transfer been allowed, ReAssure would have been left holding 
what was effectively an illiquid asset for an indefinite period of time. It would have needed to 
make separate arrangements with Mr B for the payment of its charges, as they couldnt have 
been raised by the normal methods of selling part of the pension investments.
The terms and conditions applicable to Mr Bs pension plan do allow ReAssure to delay any 
transfer should there be exceptional market conditions. The terms do not place any time 
limits on any delay that ReAssure might impose. I think what was happening in the financial 
markets around that time  caused by the global coronavirus pandemic  could reasonably 
be described as exceptional.
So on balance I cannot reasonably conclude that ReAssure acted unfairly in not allowing the 
transfer of Mr Bs pension savings to the new provider whilst trading in part of his 
investments was suspended.
The investment fund suspension was lifted in October 2020. Shortly afterwards Mr B 
submitted a new transfer request. I dont think that request was dealt with as quickly as it 
should have been. And I think that has led to a loss for Mr B, together with him experiencing 
a degree of inconvenience.
When ReAssure first responded to Mr Bs transfer request it sent him some paperwork to be 
completed. But it seems it only sent a subset of that paperwork to Mr Bs financial advisor. 
I dont think it unreasonable that Mr B was guided by his financial advisor when completing 
that paperwork. And as a result his submission was based on the incomplete set of forms 
that ReAssure had sent.
Mr B returned the authorisation paperwork on 23 November. But it wasnt until almost two 
months later, after significant chasing from Mr B, his financial advisor, and the new provider, 
that ReAssure made him aware that some further paperwork was required. Mr B returned 
that additional paperwork in early February, but it wasnt until almost a month later, in 
March 2021, that his pension savings were transferred to the new provider.
ReAssure has said that its service standard is for any particular request to be completed 
within ten working days. Mr B first requested the transfer on 23 October, so Id have 
expected the required paperwork to have been issued to him by 6 November. I have no 
reason to think that Mr B wouldnt have returned all the required forms to ReAssure if they 
had been sent at the outset within the same timeframes as the subset of paperwork that he 
returned. That was sent back to ReAssure within three working days of receipt so, if nothing 
had gone wrong, Id have expected ReAssure to be in a position to finalise Mr Bs transfer by 
11 November. And allowing for the normal ten-day processing time the transfer should have 
completed by 25 November, with the funds available for investment with the new provider by 
30 November. That is the date that I will ask ReAssure to use when calculating whether Mr B 
has lost out.
There is little doubt that the delay to the transfer, following the lifting of the suspension on 
the investment fund, caused a great deal of inconvenience to Mr B. As I said earlier 
ReAssure offered him £250 for that inconvenience, although Mr B returned the cheque 
uncashed. I dont think ReAssures offer was enough. So I am directing ReAssure to pay 
Mr B £600 to reflect the inconvenience hes been caused.
In summary, I dont think it was unreasonable for ReAssure to delay Mr Bs transfer request 
whilst trading in one of his investments was suspended. But I think that Mr B should have 
been in a position to invest his transferred pension savings by 30 November 2020. I think the delays he experienced were as a result of failings by ReAssure to complete the transfer in a 
timely manner. So ReAssure now needs to establish whether the delay caused Mr B to lose 
out, and if so to pay him appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained above I think that Mr Bs transferred pension savings 
should have been ready for investment by 30 November 2020. I think it likely that Mr B 
would have made the same investments with those funds as he made the following year. So 
to calculate whether Mr B has lost out as a result of the delay ReAssure should;
Determine what the transfer value would have been for Mr Bs pension savings on 
30 November 2020.
Establish the number of units of HSBC World Selection - Balanced Portfolio 
Accumulation P that could have been purchased at that date using the transferred 
funds.
Compare that number of units with those actually purchased by Mr B following the 
completion of his transfer in March 2021.
If the number of units that could have been purchased in November 2020 is greater 
that the number purchased in March 2021, Mr B has lost out and should be paid 
some compensation.
That compensation should be calculated as the value, at the date of this final 
decision, of the additional units that Mr B could have purchased.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr B in a clear and simple format.
The compensation should be paid into Mr B's pension plan. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mr B would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
ReAssure should additionally pay Mr B £600 (inclusive of the £250 it has already offered 
him) for the inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Bs complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman