DRN-3873186
The complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services (who Ill call VWFS) reported inaccurate information to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Its clear that VWFS made a mistake when recording the account in arrears. As a mortgage 
provider rejected his finance application on the basis of adverse information being recorded 
on an otherwise unblemished credit file, I think its clear Mr H has been inconvenienced by 
VWFSs actions.
I understand that Mr H wants compensation at least equivalent to the extra he paid for a 
mortgage, but I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest he mitigated his potential 
losses by looking at other mortgages available through other brokers. On that basis it 
wouldnt be fair to suggest the loss Mr H has documented couldnt have been averted and, 
whilst I think VWFS should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused, I 
think £375 is sufficient in the circumstances.
   
Putting things right
Im asking VWFS to put things right in the manner Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr H £375 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman