DRN-1473015
The complaint
Mr O complains about the response he got from Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist) to some 
letters he sent them.
Mr O was dealing with Hoists appointed representatives, which means Hoist is responsible 
for their actions. To keep things simple, Ill refer to both as Hoist in this decision. 
What happened
Mr O wrote to Hoist in April 2019. He asked them to tell him how much he would have to pay 
to clear two debts they were managing with him. In their July response to Mr Os complaint, 
Hoist apologised for failing to respond to this letter.
Mr O wrote again in May, this time raising his complaint. He also stopped his direct debit for 
paying the debts. Hoist again apologised in July that this wasnt logged as a complaint, and 
that they only told Mr O the balance for one of the debts at this point. 
A further letter from Mr O in June was logged as a complaint, leading to Hoists response in 
July. Hoist finally told Mr O what he would need to pay to clear both his debts. They said 
theyd give him a 30-day freeze on the account too.
Mr O replied to Hoists complaint response, in recognition of the poor service hed received. 
Hoist hadnt responded to this by August, so Mr O wrote to their chief executive. Hoist then 
responded in September and said they would only compensate Mr O for a financial loss, but 
he hadnt suffered one. Mr O then brought the matter to us.
In October, Hoist sent Mr O some letters updating the balance owed on the debts. In 
November, Mr O paid the settlement figures hed been given in July, which Hoist confirm 
they accepted to repay the two balances, marking the debts as partially satisfied on Mr Os 
credit file. 
Our investigator found that Hoists service had been unreasonable. She saw that this had 
put Mr O to the trouble of writing more letters than should have been needed, so 
recommended Hoist pay him £25 compensation. Mr O said he didnt feel like this was 
enough to recognise the way hed been treated. 
The case has come to me for a final decision. While I can appreciate Mr O is upset about the 
service he received, Ill explain below why I too think £25 is suitable compensation for that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The failures to respond to the letter in April and to treat the complaint in May as a complaint 
dont seem to be disputed. I also think the time taken to reply to Mr Os July letter  Hoist 
responded in September  was too long. The complaint was raised over a delay in contact. And the July response to that complaint 
said Hoist planned to avoid a reoccurrence. So it was unreasonable to have what seems to 
be another delay straight after. 
Looking at the letters in October, I note that there was nothing to stop Hoist continuing to 
manage the debts in parallel to the complaint. So I think it was okay for them to update the 
balances owed. 
With that said, it looks like Hoist decided to draw matters to a close when Mr O paid to settle 
the accounts in November by accepting the July settlement figures, not the ones in the 
October letters. That feels like it puts right any surprise Mr O might have had at receiving the 
October letters. So Im not going to go into that part of things any further. 
Putting things right
I can see it took a couple of letters for Mr O to get the information that he wanted from Hoist. 
Aside from the cost of the paper, envelopes and stamps though, I dont see a financial loss 
that needs to be the focus of any remedy. The inconvenience and upset caused for Mr O is 
my main concern.
I feel the inconvenience and minor cost would have been put right by the open apology and 
30-day freeze on the accounts that Hoist gave in their July complaint response. But then the 
extra delay between July and September undid some of that good work. I can see how the 
delay being repeated made a relatively minor issue seem more significant to Mr O.
Ive thought about Mr Os suggested remedy, to have Hoist improve his credit file by 
reducing the debt balance by around £500-600 to have the accounts show as fully settled 
rather than partially settled. But that wouldnt accurately reflect Mr Os credit history, and 
the cost to Hoist feels disproportionate to the impact the delays have had. So Im not going 
to go with that idea. I believe Mr O can have his credit record show the debts have been fully 
settled by paying Hoist the remaining amount, should he wish.
I appreciate that the £25 the investigator put forward is less than Mr O would like. But for me 
that amount recognises that the inconvenience and cost for Mr O here was minor. And that 
the upset and annoyance for Mr O was increased a bit by a delay being repeated after Hoist 
had given what would otherwise have been a decent apology. So I think this is the right 
remedy for this case. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint about Hoist. As well as the apology and freezing of the accounts 
already given to him, Mr O should receive £25 compensation from Hoist Finance UK Limited 
for the trouble and upset caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman