DRN-3869047
The complaint
Miss F complains that about a credit card with Sainsburys Bank Plc. She applied online for a 
credit card which offered up to 22 months 0% interest on balance transfers with a 0% 
balance transfer fee but didnt receive what she applied for. 
What happened
In October 2022 Miss F applied online for a credit card with Sainsburys. The card was 
advertised as a low balance transfer fee card.
Miss F applied for a balance transfer card with 0% interest for 22 months with no balance 
transfer fee. However, the card offered to Miss F was 0% interest for 14 months with a 1% 
balance transfer fee.
Miss F signed the agreement electronically and then contacted Sainsburys to complain. She 
asked Sainsburys to cancel the application and remove the credit search.
In response, Sainsburys said that its website advised that the interest rate was determined 
based on a customers individual circumstances and that a lower term for balance transfers 
might be offered with a variable balance transfer fee. Sainsburys said that the pre credit 
information displayed on the e-signature screen stated a balance transfer of 14 months and 
a transfer fee of 1%. Sainsburys said that the promotional period and the balance transfer 
fee were correct and that because Miss F had accepted the account, it was unable to cancel 
the application. It said that once Miss F had received the card, she could contact them and 
request her right of withdrawal. 
Miss F complained to this service. She said the terms and conditions of the card hadnt been 
made clear to her during the application process and as a result of Sainsburys not allowing 
her to cancel the application shed been declined for credit elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Sainsburys had explained that a 
shorter 0% period and a 1% fee might apply depending on circumstances and that the 
details of the account being offered to Miss F had been made available to her to read before 
she ticked the box to confirm she wanted to go ahead.
Miss F didnt agree. She said she hadnt been able to download any of the details of the 
account and that she hadnt been advised that she would be unable to transfer a balance 
from the type of credit card she held already. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the online application process which Miss F went through. The product 
information states that Sainsburys may offer a shorter period than 22 months with a fee of 
0% or 1% depending on the circumstances. The product information also states that 
Sainsburys may not be able to process balance transfers from some providers and gives the 
consumer an option to click on check our exclusions. If a consumer clicks on this, they are 
directed to contact Sainsburys to obtain clarification of whether a transfer can go ahead.
All of this information is displayed before a consumer can click apply now.
Once the apply now option is clicked, the screen displays four documents comprising the 
credit card agreement, the explanation of the agreement, the pre contract credit information 
sheet and the terms and conditions. The balance transfer offer and applicable fee are stated 
in the pre contract credit information. In order to progress the application, a consumer is 
required to confirm that the four documents have been read and understood.
Miss F wouldve had to tick a box to say that shed read and understood the terms and 
conditions of the account before confirming that she wanted to go ahead.
I appreciate that Miss F has said that she couldnt download the terms and conditions. 
However, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of the account were made available for 
Miss F to read, and if she had read the documents, she wouldve seen the length of the 
interest free period and the balance transfer fee. Im satisfied that Miss F was given the 
information about the account she was being offered and that she couldve called 
Sainsburys before applying to check that her balance could be transferred from her existing 
credit card.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Sainsburys made an error 
or treated Miss F unfairly. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this is the case. 
Based on what Ive seen, Miss F was provided with all the information she needed to make 
an informed decision as to whether to proceed with the account. In the circumstances, I 
wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman