DRN-3665756
The complaint
Mr K is complaining that Fortrade Limited closed contract for difference (CFD) positions at 
the wrong price and without his permission, causing him significant financial loss.
What happened
On 25 September 2020, Mr K held long and short positions in a certain stock, R. In the 
afternoon, Fortrade closed all of his positions because Mr Ks account no longer met 
Fortrades margin requirements. 
Mr K complained straight away. He was upset that his positions had been closed. But he 
was particularly angry that theyd been closed with a very large spread. His buy positions 
had been closed at 153.90p and his sell positions at 175p. This meant that Mr Ks attempts 
to hedge his positions were much less effective than intended. The four positions were 
closed with a total loss of around £2,400.
Fortrade offered to re-open Mr Ks positions as if they hadnt been stopped out. But Mr K 
wasnt happy with this resolution. Hed seen something similar happen on his wifes account 
previously and had been told at the time that it wouldnt happen again. So instead he said he 
wanted his money back. 
In their final response letter, Fortrade explained that their prices are set by their liquidity 
provider and that they are influenced by many factors. They said that at the time in question, 
thered been a significant news announcement about R which had led to widened spreads, 
beyond Fortrades control. They set out the various parts of their contractual documents and 
said that what had happened wasnt their fault. But, they offered to pay Mr K the £2,400 hed 
lost when the positions were closed as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K didnt accept the offer  he said hed lost around £46,000. Unable to agree things with 
Fortrade, he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the matter but 
couldnt reach an agreement with Mr K  so the complaints come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging that Mr K will be disappointed, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The price and spread
As Fortrade explained to Mr K, the CFD price is set by their liquidity provider and Fortrade 
dont have control over it. This is clearly set out in Fortrades Best Interest and Order 
Execution Policy. So I cant say Fortrade did anything wrong. Having said that, Ive looked 
briefly at what cause the larger than usual spread. 
Mr Ks said he cant find the price quoted any higher than 170p on that day. But a CFD price 
is often different from the market price of the underlying equity. Thats because the CFD 
price takes into account futures pricing and the spread as well as the underlying share price. 
Usually the difference is only a small margin but its not unheard of for it to be larger  
particularly at times of high volatility and high volumes. 
On the afternoon of 25 September 2020, the volume of trades in R and the volatility of the 
share price were both extremely high due to company announcements. Its clear that this 
impacted the prices available and the spread. 
The margin stop-out 
Fortrades system forced the closure of Mr Ks positions because of the unusual pricing. 
Their terms and conditions allow them to do this, and Mr K hasnt disputed this. I cant say 
Fortrade acted unfairly in closing Mr Ks positions. 
And I note that Fortrade did acknowledge the unusual circumstances and offered to reinstate 
Mr Ks positions when he first complained. When Mr K rejected this, Fortrade later offered to 
refund Mr Ks losses on the closure. Both of these offers go beyond what I can ask Fortrade 
to do given Ive found they havent done anything wrong.
I know Mr Ks seeking a much higher amount of compensation. Hes looked with hindsight at 
the most beneficial prices of the stock in the weeks and months after 25 September. But his 
trading history shows hes very rarely held positions overnight, and very rarely for more than 
24 hours and Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr K would have acted differently this time. 
So I havent seen anything to suggest his claim for £46,000 would be reasonable even if Id 
found that Fortrade had been at fault.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Fortrade Limited. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject 
my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman