DRN-3506248
The complaint
Mr U says Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco)  has unfairly 
declined her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In December 2019, Mr U paid a holiday park operator Ill call P an annual pitch fee 
of £5,054 for 2020, using his Tesco credit card account. At the time, Mr U had a 
holiday home on one of Ps sites.
The site was closed for about 16 weeks between March 2020 and July 2020 because 
of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr U asked P for a pro-rata refund in cash: 16/52 x £5,054 = £1,555.08.
P refused, but it offered to reduce his 2021 pitch fee by a sum equal to 50% of the 
pro-rata refund.
Mr U did not accept the offer and contacted Tesco to try to recover some money. He 
also sold his holiday home.
Tesco says it chose not to raise a chargeback and it declined a claim under section 
75 of the CCA because it didnt think there had been a breach of contract by P. But it 
paid Mr U £25 because he had to chase it for a letter and it didnt explain its decision.
Unhappy with Tescos response, Mr U referred his complaint to our service. In 
addition to the pro-rata refund of £1,555.08 for the 16 weeks the site was closed, 
Mr U wanted Tesco to pay him £1,943.85 because he sold his holiday home on 16 
August 2020, and under the Pitch Licence Agreement, wasnt entitled to any refund. 
He wanted a pro-rata refund to cover the period from 16 August 2020 to year end.
One of our investigators recommended Tesco refund £777.54, which is 50% of the 
pro-rata refund for the 16 weeks the site was closed. But our investigator said Mr U 
chose to sell his holiday home when he did, and the paperwork made it clear that he 
wouldnt get a refund in those circumstances. So our investigator didnt think Tesco 
needed to pay Mr U any compensation for the period from 16 August 2020 to year 
end.
Mr U accepted our investigators recommendation  in the spirit of compromise.
In reply to our investigator, Tesco said: we now think [Mr U] should be reimbursed 
a percentage of the pitch fee costs for the 16 weeks the park was closed [and agree] 
that the cost of the 16 weeks equates to £1,555.08. But it offered to pay Mr U 20% of 
this sum for the reasons I explain below. And, in recognition that it got it wrong in the 
first instance, offered an additional £50.
Mr U didnt accept Tescos offer, and Tesco refused to revise its offer and asked that 
an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Initially, Mr U wanted Tesco to pay him compensation to cover the period from 
16 August 2020 to 31 December 2020. Ive inferred from his response to our investigator 
that he no longer seeks this. But for completeness, Id like to confirm that I agree with our 
investigator. Mr U chose to sell his home when he did and the paperwork Ive seen makes it 
clear that he isnt entitled to a refund. So, on this point, I dont think there was a breach of 
contract for which Tesco is liable.
Regarding the closure of the site for 16 weeks, the parties now agree that there was a 
breach of contract for which Tesco is legally answerable and only disagree on the 
appropriate remedy, which is all I need to decide here.
Tesco says paying Mr U 20% of the pro-rata refund for the 16 weeks the site was closed is 
fair because:
It thinks its reasonable to assume that the pitch itself, park maintenance and 24-hour 
security make up the vast majority of the overall costs.
If the site had been open, Mr U would have only lost out on the other facilities for the 
time he was there  and it highly doubts that he would have been constantly using 
the facilities so his loss in real terms was very small.
If the site had been open, its unlikely he would have been able to visit in any event 
because of travel restrictions imposed by the Government.
Although P offered to reduce his 2021 pitch fee by a sum equal to 50% of the 
pro-rata refund, it doesnt think this is indicative of the cost of the facilities Mr U 
couldnt use as a proportion of the pitch fee  it says it is well known that credit 
towards future purchases are often higher than cash refunds because suppliers 
benefit from  and therefore incentivise  repeat business.
Ill summarise Mr Us response to these points in the same order.
Mr U says Tescos assumption that the pitch itself, maintenance and security made 
up the vast majority of the overall costs is wrong. He says homeowners who 
remained on site when it was closed told him and others that there were only two 
staff on site, and there was no maintenance or security. Whats more, Mr U says 
there is usually only 2 security staff during the day and one at night  which is just 
10% of normal staff numbers.
As hes retired, Mr U says he spent most of spring, summer and autumn on site. In 
any event, he says it isnt a pay-as-you-use facility but one where you pay and use 
whenever you wish.
Mr U doesnt think Tescos comment about the effect of Government-imposed travel 
restrictions warrants a response and says Ps offer should have been closer to a 90-
95% refund.
Working out fair compensation in a case like this isnt straightforward and I must, 
necessarily, paint with a broad brush.
The value of a holiday home is surely derived from the ability of the owner to use it. I dont 
think its necessary or appropriate to carry out a speculative, open-ended enquiry into the 
costs of what P provided when the site was closed or what they are as a percentage of the 
pitch fee when the site is open. I accept Mr Us testimony that he usually spent most of 
spring and summer on site, and he was unable to use his holiday home for 16 weeks. With this in mind, and while I accept that P continued to provide some services, I think Tesco 
should pay Mr U 50% of a pro-rata refund for the 16 weeks the site was closed, which is 
£777.54. And I think it should pay him the £50 it offered in recognition that it got it wrong in 
the first instance, which I think is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC  
trading as Tesco Bank  to pay Mr U:
£777.54 with simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from 27 May 2020 (which is 
when it declined his claim) to the date he receives the money; and,
£50 to compensate Mr U because Tesco initially declined his claim.
If Tesco thinks it is necessary to deduct tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr U with a certificate of tax deduction if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman