DRN-2127834
The complaint
Mrs D says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
 
What happened
Mrs D bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs D says the PPI wasnt explained to her, and she didnt know shed agreed to buy it. 
Mrs D considers she was misled by AXA. Ive noted everything Mrs D has said. 
But I note that the store card application Mrs D signed was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Mrs D applied for her 
card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mrs D may no 
longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was 
sold. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs D has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that AXA didnt make her aware the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs D might have had to 
cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs D would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman