DRN-4127969
The complaint
Ms L has complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with a claim under a 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms L contact Zurich to make a claim following a water leak at her home. Zurich accepted the 
claim and arranged for damage to the bathroom to be repaired. However, Ms L complained 
because she said the work was completed to a poor standard and took much longer to 
complete that it should have.
When Zurich replied, it said when the bathroom snagging issues were raised, it asked its 
contractor to put the work right. However, after many attempts, it had been unable to rectify 
the issues. So, Zurich had arranged for another company to inspect the works. This 
company confirmed the work was carried out to a poor standard. It apologised that Ms L had 
to chase the original contractor for so long without a resolution and that Ms L had been 
unable to use her bath. It offered £450 as compensation.
A short time later, Zurich issued another response offering a further £200 compensation for 
further delays experienced on the claim.
When Ms L complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. She said Ms L had been 
affected by the poor handling of the claim for 19 months. She said Zurich should increase 
the amount of compensation to £850.
As Zurich didnt reply to our investigators assessment, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This has clearly been a lengthy claim. Ms L was told it would take a few weeks for the 
repairs to be carried out but, 19 months later, she still had a number of issues with the 
bathroom. This included not being able to use the bath as it dropped because it wasnt 
properly supported. This also affected the silicone around the bath, which caused Ms L 
concern as it might have allowed water to escape down the sides of the bath and damage 
the walls. The toilet pan was also incompatible with the cistern and the toilet moved each 
time it was used as the pan wasnt fixed to the floor. There were also issues with the basin 
tap, the extractor fan, the wall tiling, which hadnt been grouted, and the spotlights.
Zurich sent the original contractor to fix the issues but, despite multiple visits, it was unable 
to do so. It seemed only to be when Zurich sent a different company that the full extent of the 
poor-quality work became clear. By this point, Ms L had to take multiple days off work to deal 
with the original contractor trying to fix its own repairs and the inconvenience of having a 
bath she couldnt use and a toilet that was incorrectly fitted. This was for a considerable 
period of time and well beyond what I would consider reasonable to deal with the original 
claim and to fix any snagging issues.
As a result, I think Zurich should pay Ms L a total of £850 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to her over a sustained period of time. I think the way the repairs were dealt with 
caused serious disruption to Ms Ls daily life and that this increased level of compensation 
more fairly reflects the impact on Ms L. If Zurich has already paid some or all of the £650 
compensation it previously offered, it can deduct this from the £850.
Putting things right
Zurich should pay Ms L a total of £850 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Ms L a total of £850 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman