DRN-4364662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K, as partners of the company M, have complained that Metro Bank PLC wont 
refund transactions they say they didnt make or otherwise authorise, which were the result 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr K received a pop-up message that his security had been compromised. He called the 
listed phone number and spoke to scammers who were impersonating technical support. 
They knew his information and took him through a security process. They persuaded Mr K to 
download a technical support app, which allowed them access to his device, saying it was to 
secure his accounts. Using this remote access, the scammers transferred money from 
another account of Mr and Mrs Ks to Ms Metro account, then on from the Metro account to 
themselves. The total transferred was £8,700.
Metro managed to get £1,900 of this reversed, and refunded £224 of the loss which had 
originated from Ms Metro account. But it felt that Mr and Mrs Ks other bank were liable for 
the rest of the loss, totalling £6,576.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Metro didnt 
agree, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that these payments were unauthorised. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations, the starting position is that Metro are liable for payments which their customer 
did not authorise.
Metro can still hold M liable for these payments if Mr and Mrs K (on behalf of M) failed to 
keep the account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence.
While I agree that Mr K acted negligently, gross negligence is a much higher standard than 
normal negligence. It involves an actual appreciation for the risks involved and a very 
serious disregard to those risks.
In this particular situation, this was a sophisticated scam, where the scammers created an 
environment of trust with Mr K. The scammers took substantial measures to imitate a 
genuine support function, using key information theyd found out to seem genuine, taking 
Mr K through a fake security process, and asking him to download a genuine verified app 
that really is used for technical support. So Mr K didnt actually realise he was putting Ms 
account at risk. In fact, ultimately Mr K was trying to protect the account from the risk of harm 
by doing what he thought was necessary.
So while I do empathise with Metros position, and while I agree that Mr K should take 
greater care in future, I dont think his actions quite meet the bar of gross negligence here. 
And given that he was trying to protect Ms account, I cannot reasonably conclude that he 
intentionally failed to keep it safe.
This means that under the Payment Services Regulations, Metro is responsible for refunding 
the unauthorised payments.
Metro has made arguments about where the loss originated. But thats not really a relevant 
consideration here. Under the relevant rules, both Metro and Mr and Mrs Ks other bank are 
fully liable for the unauthorised payments, regardless of where the loss originated. And when 
it comes to fairness, Im sure Metro would think it unfair if I relieved the other bank of its 
liabilities and held Metro solely liable  so it follows that it would be unfair for me to do it the 
other way round, too.
So for the unauthorised payments where both banks were involved, I find that the fairest 
thing is for each bank to refund 50% of the loss. Those payments totalled £6,576, so 50% of 
that is £3,288. Metro should also add 8% simple interest onto this amount, as compensation 
for the loss of use of those funds. This is the same rate the courts use in situations like this.
Putting things right
Metro Bank PLC should:
refund £3,288; and-
pay simple interest on that loss, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable from the 
date the disputed payments were debited until the date the loss is refunded.
 If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from 
that simple interest, it should tell M how much tax its taken off. It should also give M a tax 
deduction certificate if Mr and Mrs K ask for one. M may be able to reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if it doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint, and direct Metro Bank PLC to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
If M accepts the final decision, Metro Bank PLC must pay the redress within 28 days of the 
date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman