DRN-3038071
The complaint
Mr W complains about a loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
  Loans 2 Go provided Mr W with a loan. The details of which are given in this table:
Taken amount Instalment Total to repay Instalments
09/03/2019 £750 £171.42 £3085.56 18 months
Mr W still has an outstanding balance to repay.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She concluded 
Loans 2 Go didnt carry out proportionate checks. She went on to say if it had obtained 
further information, it would have seen that Mr W was having problems managing his 
finances and would not agree to lend to him. She said Mr W had taken out 6 loans leading 
up to this loan being taken, and would have been able to repay this loan in a sustainable 
way.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators view. It said it carried out proportionate checks 
when it lent to Mr W and made a fair lending decision. It pointed to its assessment that it 
says showed Mr W had enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments and that 
his credit search results showed he was repaying what he had lent.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When Loans 2 Go lent to Mr W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ws creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk to it that Mr W wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr W of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Mr Ws ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they Loans 2 Go due over the life of the agreement, without him 
having to borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment 
he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did Loans 2 Go then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
I can see that Loans 2 Go again asked Mr W about his income and expenditure. It has told 
our service that it adjusted Mr Ws income and expenditure based on an online verification 
tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for expenditure. It 
says it made its calculations about Mr Ws expenditure by using what it saw in his credit 
report and also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected spend.  
It reduced Mr Ws declared income from £1100 a month to £971.35 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr W says his expenditure was of £455, to £689.83, based on checks it 
carried out this included a credit search. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Ws 
disposable income when it agreed to the loan. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because I think it would have seen enough from its checks that ought to have given 
it concerns. At least enough that I think, the checks should have alerted it to wanting to find 
out more.
I say this because I can see there was a discrepancy between what Mr W said about his 
expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should 
have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr W wasnt being truthful about his expenditure in this case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr W said 
his income and expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was fairly wide. So, 
I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks to see if there were good 
reasons for this, or it shouldnt have provided Mr W with the loan. This leads me to think that 
Loans 2 Go needed to take additional steps to verify what Mr Ws actual monthly 
expenditure was. Especially as it had assessed Mr Ws disposable income to be quite limited 
and any fluctuation in his assessed expenditure could result in him not being able to repay 
this loan in a sustainable way.
I dont think that the checks Loans 2 Go carried out before providing Mr W with this loan 
were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr W would need to meet his loan 
repayments over 18 months. So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out 
further checks for the loan, I need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
L2G was required to establish whether Mr W could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr W. He was able to provide bank 
statements from December 2018 to March 2019 up to the day he was granted this loan. Ive 
looked through these statements and having done so, its clear Mr W was heavily reliant on 
using finance by other short-term lenders. I can see on these statements that Mr W had 
requested 6 short term loans with other finance providers. These were all additional loans 
that had not appeared on the credit search results Loans 2 Go carried out. This means the 
additional repayments of the open loans amongst these were on top of the calculation that 
Loans 2 Go had arrived at. I agree with our investigator when she said Mr W was paying a 
significant amount of his monthly wages to credit and had no disposable income left to repay 
this loan. It is clear to me after seeing this that Mr W was struggling to manage his finances 
and the repayments he had to make on these loans, meant he would have had to carry on 
lending in order to meet his commitments. In short, the loan repayments for this loan from 
Loans 2 Go wouldnt have been sustainable. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr W would not have been able to 
sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks for this loan resulted in it unfairly providing it to Mr W.
So, it follows that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and Loans 2 Go needs to put things right for the 
reasons given above.
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr W received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr W made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr W was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr W to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ws credit file because of the loan;*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint for the reasons set out above and 
require Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman