DRN-3031511
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mrs and Mr H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (BoS) mis-sold that PPI 
policy. 
I know that PPI was sold to Mrs and Mr H in a branch of the Leeds Permanent Building 
Society. But Ill refer mainly to BoS in this decision because thats the business with overall 
responsibility for this complaint. 
What happened
Although Mrs and Mr H had a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover Mr H only  not 
Mrs H. 
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mrs and Mr Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated 
all of that information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought BoSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mrs and Mr H paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that BoSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
It is not entirely clear how this PPI policy came to be sold to Mrs and Mr H. They told us they 
thought it had been sold on the telephone. But BoS treated it as though it was sold in 
branch. Accordingly, I have considered both possibilities in this decision. I dont have a call 
recording, which wouldnt be unusual even if the policy was sold on the telephone. Thats 
because I wouldnt expect either party to keep such evidence for a long time. If the cover 
was sold in a BoS branch, then I cant know what was said during that meeting. So to help 
me decide whats likely to have happened either way, Ive looked at the electronic and 
documentary evidence thats available from the time. And Ive also looked at what the parties 
told us about it. 
It looks as though Mrs and Mr H applied for their mortgage in May 1991. But they applied for 
PPI sometime later. As their mortgage application had already been submitted when they 
applied for the PPI policy, I think theyd have known it was a separate financial product and 
they could have refused it if they didnt want it.  
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought about what we know about their personal 
circumstances at the time. 
I can see if theyd had to make a claim on the PPI cover, Mrs and Mr Hs mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months if Mr H was off sick or if he was 
made redundant.  I understand Mr H didnt have any contractual sick pay from his employer, 
and that Mrs and Mr H didnt have any other means to fall back on if Mr H was out of work. 
With that in mind, I can see how PPI could have been helpful if Mr H wasnt working. I must 
stress that the borrowing was secured on Mrs and Mr Hs home, which could have been at 
risk if they fell behind with their repayments. 
Ive next considered whether Mrs and Mr H would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions or limitations. I understand Mr H was in good health when the cover was sold, so 
I dont think hed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical 
conditions. And I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Hs employment that would have 
stopped a successful claim. 
Those representing Mrs and Mr H made a number of submissions about additional 
exclusions in the policy around back and mental health conditions. However, having checked 
the policy document at length, I am satisfied there were no such exclusions in this regard. 
It was also submitted that the policy was unsuitable because Mrs H wasnt in work at the 
point of sale, and that she would have turned 60 during the term of the policy. But Mrs H 
wasnt covered by the PPI, so cant say either of those things would have affected the 
suitability of the cover. Overall, Im satisfied BoSs recommendation was suitable in the 
circumstances. Even so, BoS still had to give Mrs and Mr H enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. 
I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mrs and Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs and Mr H as I 
concluded above, nor too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought it was from the 
information were most likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
could have been useful if something went wrong with Mr Hs job. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs and Mr H would have declined the cover had BoS given them more or better information 
about it. 
Overall, I consider that Mrs and Mr H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
have provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought it was. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
The representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BoSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Mrs and Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share they paid 
in this case. So taking into account: the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to 
disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business 
expected commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the 
policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between BoS and Mrs and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because BoS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and 
profit share in this case 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs and Mr H because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary they have said  Mrs and Mr H should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: BoS failed to tell  Mrs and Mr H about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that  Mrs and Mr H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in order 
to remedy the unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of commission before 
the policy was sold.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission;
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mrs and Mr H paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mrs and 
Mr H with the policy Ive concluded above would still have taken out if BoS had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoSs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay  Mrs and Mr H an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman