DRN-2887968
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment. 
What happened
Mr B called Santander to make a payment to a third party. During the call, Mr B said he was 
unable to receive text messages. Mr B passed security and was told the payment had been 
sent. But Santanders fraud prevention system held the payment for further checks. 
Santander sent two text messages and made two phone calls to Mr B but wasnt able to 
speak with him. The payment he instructed was declined and funds paid back into his 
account. Santander also applied a block to Mr Bs account which meant he wasnt able to 
send payments via his online banking facility. 
Over the following days, Mr B logged into his online banking facility and tried to send 
payments to various people but none went through. 
Around two and a half weeks after instructing the payment in question, Mr B called 
Santander to find out why it hadnt been paid. Santander told Mr B about the security block 
that impacted his payment and online account facility. Mr B complained and Santander said 
it had declined the payment in line with its account terms. Santander agreed Mr B shouldve 
been told the payment may be liable for further checks and agreed he had notified the call 
handler about problems receiving text messages. Santander paid Mr B £120 to apologise. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and said the blocked payment led to him being 
evicted. Our investigator thought Santander had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Mr B asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B called Santander to instruct this payment and wasnt warned it could be 
liable for further checks. Mr B also told the call handler he wasnt able to receive text 
messages. Hes told us that, as a result of the payment being declined, he was evicted. Ive 
looked at whether Santander followed the right procedures and whether its decision to 
decline Mr Bs payment was fair and in line with the terms. 
The account terms set out how the account is operated. They say Santander can refuse a 
payment instruction if it reasonably suspects it may be fraudulent. I appreciate the payment 
in question was instructed over the phone and was entirely genuine. But Santander has 
confirmed it was highlighted by its payment systems for further checks which is a step its 
terms allow it to take. So whilst I understand Mr B was surprised to find the payment wasnt 
made despite answering security questions when he called, Im satisfied Santander was able 
to hold it for further checks to ensure the instruction was genuine. 
Mr B has explained he wasnt able to receive text messages, so didnt receive the ones 
Santander sent him. But when Mr B called, he didnt tell Santander it wasnt possible to 
receive calls either. And I can see Santander did try to call Mr B twice before declining the 
payment. So whilst I understand the text messages werent received, I think Santander 
made reasonable efforts to contact Mr B over the phone. 
The payment was returned to Mr Bs account the day after he tried to make it. Santander has 
provided online banking records that shows Mr B logged into his online banking facility in the 
days that followed his payment request. Mr B also tried to make other online payments 
within a couple of days of the payment in question but they were declined. Santander says 
Mr B wouldve been aware the payment he instructed, which was for a reasonable sum, had 
been returned as his account balance was higher. And Santander also said the declined 
online payments should also have highlighted to Mr B there was an issue. I think Santander 
makes a reasonable point and I agree there was information available that showed the 
payment had been returned to Mr Bs account the day after it was instructed. 
Mr B contacted Santander around two and half weeks later and it was able to lift the security 
blocks. Mr Bs account operated as normal from that point onwards. 
Mr B has told us he was evicted because the payment wasnt made. Im sorry to hear thats 
the case. But, as Ive said above, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with its account terms 
and tried to call Mr B before the payment was declined. In addition, Im satisfied Mr B was 
able to access his online account facility and that the payment was showing as refunded to 
his account the day after it was made. I havent been persuaded Santander made a mistake 
or failed to follow the correct procedures in this case.
Santander paid Mr B £120 to apologise that it didnt warn him the payment may be subject to 
further security checks when he called.  Santander also acknowledged Mr B told it about the 
problems he was experiencing with text messages. Im satisfied £120 fairly reflects the 
impact of these issues on Mr B. So Im not telling Santander to increase the compensation 
its paid in this case. As Im satisfied Santander dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any other action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Santander UK Plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman