DRN-4451129
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent the loss he suffered when he 
sent a payment to one of its customers accounts as a result of a scam.
Mr C has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly just 
refer to and will ascribe the representatives comments to Mr C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I will keep my summary 
of what happened brief and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr C says hes fallen victim to an impersonation scam. He was contacted via email by a 
self-claimed UK private banker who told him that he was the beneficiary of their deceased 
clients inheritance fund as he shared the same family name as them. Between April and May 
2022 Mr C made four payments totalling over £54,000 to three different recipient accounts, 
with three different payment service providers (PSPs). At the time Mr C believed the 
payments he was making were towards legal fees and HMRC bills to release the inheritance 
money.
Relevant to this complaint is a payment of £20,000 which credited the Revolut account on 
27 May 2022. The payment was sent from Mr Cs account with his own bank which is based 
outside the UK.
In short, Mr C complained to Revolut that it had likely failed: to meet its obligations when 
allowing its customers account to be opened; in its monitoring of the recipient account; and 
in its response when notified of the fraud. He asked that it refund his loss.
Revolut didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it couldnt agree to a refund, nor could it (due 
to data protection reasons) disclose any information about the recipient account. So, the 
matter was referred to our service. Our Investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. He was of the 
opinion that there was a change in the operation of the account, and had Revolut intervened, 
it couldve prevented most of Mr Cs losses (in relation to the funds paid into the Revolut 
account). He recommended Revolut refund £19,000 plus 8% interest.
Mr C accepted the Investigators outcome, but Revolut disagreed, and the case was passed 
to me to decide. 
In November 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr C was the victim of a scam and has lost a considerable sum of money 
as a result. I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to recover the money hes lost. 
But an account later found to have been utilised to receive fraudulently obtained funds 
doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) to a refund from the recipient PSP nor does it 
mean that the recipient PSP reasonably failed to prevent the loss. In circumstances such as 
these where Mr C has no direct relationship with Revolut, I can only ask it to refund Mr Cs 
loss if I think it has failed in such a way that it can fairly and reasonably be concluded that its 
act or omission caused the loss.
With that in mind, Im satisfied Revolut carried out checks (in line with its regulatory 
obligations) to verify the identity of the named accountholder and did its due diligence when 
opening the recipient account. There was nothing at the time that I think reasonably couldve 
alerted Revolut that the account it was opening would later be used to receive fraudulently 
obtained funds. So I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Cs loss when opening 
the account.
Revolut have shared the recipient account statements since opening. These cover over 
12 months of account activity including the arrival and spending of Mr Cs funds. Having 
carefully reviewed these I do agree with our Investigator, in so far as, I think that £20,000 
arriving and all being paid away the same day (payments were made to both new and 
existing payees) was a change in the operation of the account, and it isnt unfair or 
unreasonable to say that this ought to have prompted a review. But Im not persuaded that 
any proportionate level of intervention prior to Mr Cs funds being spent wouldve resulted in 
a prevention of his loss. I say this because, in this case, had Revolut taken a closer look it 
wouldve seen that the account had been operating without concern for over a year. Its 
expected and actual pattern of use wasnt like a general bank account, with a regular 
mandated salary and payments being made  it appears to be more sporadic. Whilst the 
incoming payment was larger than payments previously received and the cumulative spend 
was greater than historic use, the account had previously received international payments 
some of which were also spent or transferred out soon after arriving. Also Mr Cs incoming 
payment didnt have a beneficiary name mismatch, and Revolut had not received any prior 
reports of fraud in relation to the recipient account. Of course, money arriving and being 
transferred out the same day can be an indicator of potential misappropriation of funds, but it 
could also be legitimate use.
In hindsight its easy to say Revolut ought to have done more. But what I need to think about 
is what was reasonable to expect it to have done, based on the information available to it at 
the time. And following on from that, what the likely outcome would have been, had Revolut 
acted as Id have expected. Here as there were no other obvious red flags, I think a 
proportionate check wouldve been for Revolut to have asked questions of its accountholder. 
In this case, it's also most likely that its customer would've just confirmed that they were the 
intended recipient and that everything was ok. And at the time I cant see a basis upon which 
Revolut couldve contested this. Revolut have said aside from Mr Cs complaint (raised 
through his representative in July 2022) it hasnt received any other reports about fraudulent 
payments. So it follows that I can't fairly and reasonably conclude that Revolut could've 
prevented Mr C's loss in this way either.It appears as though Mr Cs bank didnt sent notification of fraud to Revolut. It isn't 
unreasonable for a recipient PSP to request formal notification of fraud from the remitting 
bank before taking steps to assist in the recovery of the disputed funds. One of the reasons 
for this is to mitigate the risk of malicious claims from unknown parties, which to be clear isnt 
something Im suggesting has happened here. But even if I were to say Revolut ought to 
have done something more when it received Mr C's complaint in July 2022, all that remained 
which it could have returned to Mr C was one pence. Given this is such a low amount, where 
the cost of processing a return would have exceeded its value, as well as the benefit to Mr C 
being so negligible  I dont think Revolut has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not returning 
this amount.
For completeness, Im also satisfied Revolut havent acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
informing Mr C that it cant share (with him) information about the recipient accountholder 
and the investigation it carried out. As the information contains someone elses personal 
data, in the circumstances of this case, without their being a lawful basis and/or consent 
from the third party whose data it is, Revolut cant share this with Mr C.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mr C or Revolut Ltd, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Revolut responded to say it has no further comments to make. Mr C also responded. He 
maintains that the recipient account had all the red flags associated with a high-risk account 
 that being an account which received a large sum, with most of the money being cleared 
quickly, leaving only a small sum. His belief remains that if Revolut had intervened 
appropriately then it would have been clear that fraud was occurring.  
So now that both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C still feels Revolut ought to have done more and had it intervened 
appropriately it wouldve been clear that fraud was occurring. But for the reasons Ive already 
set out (in quite some detail) in my provisional decision, I dont agree that this wouldve been 
apparent to Revolut at the time. In hindsight its easy to make such arguments, but at the 
time what Revolut wouldve been faced with was an account which had been open and 
operating for some time; no previous fraud concerns or notifications; no beneficiary name 
mismatch on the incoming credit; spending which wasnt obviously indicative of 
misappropriation; and in this case an accountholder who likely wouldve confirmed 
everything was ok and that the payment was intended for them. Ive also not been presented 
with anything that persuades me that any steps which Id reasonably have expected Revolut 
to have taken at the time wouldve resulted in a prevention of Mr Cs loss.  
As neither party has put forward any new evidence, or information which changes my mind. I 
see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.  Again, Im really sorry to hear Mr C has lost so much money to a scam. But having carefully 
considered everything I dont think Revolut are responsible for his loss, nor have they 
hindered its recovery in a way where it would be fair to ask it to compensate him. Im also 
satisfied Revolut responded appropriately to a request for disclosure of third-party personal 
data. So it follows that there isnt a fair and reasonable basis upon which I can tell it to do 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman