DRN-1628847
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr M. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The policy was sold to 
Mr M when he upgraded his card by post, several years after the credit started.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive thought about what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
This is because the information Barclays gave Mr M about the costs and limitations on 
benefits wasnt as clear as it should have been. There wasnt enough information on the 
application form, and I think its unlikely any other information was given to Mr M at the time 
of the sale  or at least information that was clear enough. 
I think this would have mattered to Mr M because hes said that he had considerable savings 
which he could have relied on. Hes been reasonably consistent about what these were; and 
because of this, and given his income at the time, I think its likely his recollections are 
correct. 
Barclays has sent me details of two accounts Mr M had with them at the time. These do not 
show any real savings. But Mr M has said much of the savings were in the form of an ISA. 
And the current account, which Barclays has sent me details of, clearly isnt Mr Ms main 
bank account. There is nothing showing a salary coming in over several months. 
Barclays has said the PPI would still have paid out for longer than Mr Ms sick pay and 
savings would have lasted. But I dont think thats right. Mr M would have been entitled to 
some sick pay, even if he cant now remember how much. And this, combined with the 
savings, is likely to have been more than twelve months gross salary  and in fact would 
have lasted even longer when thinking about his likely net salary. 
I think Mr M has lost out as a result of Barclays's failings in this case  I dont think hed have 
taken out the policy if hed been properly informed.
Putting things rightBarclays Bank PLC should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
 
A. Barclays Bank PLC should find out how much Mr M would owe on his credit card if 
the policy hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays Bank PLC should then refund the difference between what Mr M owes and 
what he would have owed.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank PLC can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
B. If  when Barclays Bank PLC works out what Mr M would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mr M paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays Bank PLC 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mr M wouldve owed Barclays Bank PLC something on 
his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. Barclays Bank PLC should tell Mr M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Barclays Bank PLC must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank PLC to pay Mr M compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman