DRN-4308622
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unreasonably refused to 
process its direct debit indemnity (DDI) claim.
What happened
W has a business bank account with Lloyds. In early 2023, W noticed that there were two 
direct debits being taken by a third party I will refer to as S. W told Lloyds that it had already 
cancelled one of the direct debits and didnt recognise the other. W says that S told it to raise 
a DDI claim with Lloyds.
After raising the claim, W says Lloyds said it had contacted S which had verified that the 
direct debit mandate was correct. After W complained, Mrs O says Lloyds promised to follow 
up but failed to do so. 
In its final response, Lloyds told W that it didnt think there had been an error with the direct 
debits. Lloyds said that it had not progressed Ws DDI claim as it had made several similar 
claims in recent months. Lloyds invited W to share a copy of a letter or email from S advising 
W to raise the DDI claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ws complaint be upheld. In summary he said, banks 
need to validate DDI claims and that Lloyds had shown the direct debit was correctly set up 
and authorised via AUDDIS. Our investigator explained that even if banks make the DDI 
claim and refund the money, the originator may try and claw it back.
Our investigator told W that most genuine mistakes come to light fairly quickly so it was fair 
for Lloyds to ask for further evidence before proceeding with the DDI claim. 
Mrs O is unhappy with the investigation outcome. She says there is no limit to the number of 
DDI claims that can be made. Mrs O says that after she made the DDI claim on Ws behalf, 
Lloyds said it had been in contact with S which confirmed the details were correct but that 
Lloyds hasnt provided evidence of this.
Mrs O says that W held an account with S which was covered under one of the direct debit 
references. So, this means the other direct debit reference - also associated with S  is a 
mistake. 
Mrs O says that Lloyds should have refunded the amounts claimed on notification of Ws 
DDI claim. Mrs O says that at no time does the direct debit guarantee say that the bank will 
investigate and not make an immediate refund. 
Mrs O says that W had authorised one of the direct debits which had then been withdrawn 
after cancelling the contract with S. Mrs O says she is less concerned about this direct debit 
as she was in direct contact with S. It is the other direct debit for the monthly sum of £8.40 
which concerns her. Mrs O says that after S could not find a second account in Ws name, it 
could do nothing further and as the direct debit was unauthorised, W raised the DDI claim. 
Mrs O remains of the view that there has been an error with the direct debit and that W is 
entitled to an immediate refund. She says that W doesnt have an account set up with S with 
the direct debit reference complained about. So, there is no written correspondence from S 
as it cant discuss an account other than with the account holder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The direct debit guarantee allows account holders to receive an immediate refund from their 
bank in some, but not all circumstances. The wording of the direct debit guarantee wasnt 
quite the same as Mrs O has interpreted it. The scheme operator, Bacs, says that a 
customer is entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid by direct debit where 
an error is made in the payment of your direct debit. The right to a refund is not 
absolute or automatic. And I dont consider the direct debit guarantee is intended as a 
means of recovering historic payments or where there is a contractual dispute.
I appreciate what Mrs O says about Lloyds wanting to investigate Ws DDI claim but I dont 
consider this was unreasonable. The evidence provided by Lloyds shows that W had been 
making direct debit payments to S since 2020 and 2021. Lloyds has provided bank 
statements for W going back to 2022. I can see two sets of regular direct debits to S. 
It is usually the case, that payment mistakes come to light fairly quickly. Where some time 
has gone by, as here, I think it calls into question whether the claim is genuine. In those 
circumstances, I dont consider Lloyds is obliged to refund the money immediately and 
without question. 
The direct debit instruction was received by Lloyds from S, through the AUDDIS system 
which allows businesses to notify a bank that it has received authority to collect payments 
from a customers account. This system doesnt require the bank to see a signed direct debit 
mandate  its the responsibility of the business requesting the payment to ensure everything 
is set up correctly. In Ws case  Lloyds has shown that both direct debits were correctly set 
up as far as it is concerned. 
As I have said above, for there to be an immediate refund, there must have been an error in 
the payment of the direct debit. Lloyds has asked W to provide further evidence of this  
such as a letter or email from S. W hasnt provided this further information and without it, I 
dont consider it fair to simply require Lloyds to refund the money to W.  
I understand Mrs Os point that S hasnt put anything in writing as W is not the account 
holder for the account to which the payments have been made. But I would have reasonably 
expected S to be able to provide something to this effect. If, as Mrs O seems to be saying, S 
received payments from Ws bank account which were intended for another account holder, I 
dont see why S cannot confirm this to Lloyds. Given the number of years that W has been 
making the now disputed direct debit payments, without raising concerns, I remain of the 
view that it is reasonable for Lloyds to decline to make the DDI claim without further 
evidence that a mistake has been made.
Finally, I can see Mrs O is unhappy that Lloyds initially told that it had checked with S about 
the direct debits and hasnt provided further evidence of this. I cant see evidence of this in 
Lloyds business file but I dont think it changes my decision that Lloyds acted fairly when it 
declined Ws DDI claim for all the reasons Ive set out above.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman