DRN-2533783
The complaint
Mr F complains that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited didnt allocate him the shares he 
should have received following an open offer.
What happened
Mr F has a stocks and shares ISA with Elevate. He had a holding of ITM Power PLC shares. 
In October 2019 the company announced a corporate action. The offer was 1 new share for 
every 19 held at a cost of 40p per share. Mr F applied in full and received the appropriate 
number of shares. But, at the same time, ITM announced a further open offer of shares at 
40p each. Mr F instructed Elevate to apply for £2,500 worth of shares, but he didnt receive 
any. He found out that, although the offer had been scaled back, other brokers were 
allocated around 27% of their application. He wants Elevate to allocate him the shares he 
should have received at the offer price of 40p per share.
Elevate says it didnt receive an allocation. Following Mr Fs complaint, it made enquiries 
with the registrar and with ITM. It was told the allocation of shares was discretionary and 
Elevate didnt receive any. It accepted that the money had been debited from Mr Fs ISA, 
that funds had automatically been disinvested, and that there was a delay in re-crediting 
Mr Fs ISA once it knew he wouldnt be allocated any shares. It repurchased the units that 
had been sold to meet the open offer and it credited Mr Fs ISA with £23.33, being the loss 
incurred through the disinvestment and repurchase.
Our investigator concluded that the allocation of shares following the over-subscription of the 
open offer was out of Elevates hands. But he thought the service Mr F had received could 
have been better. He didnt think Elevate had been clear enough in its explanations and that 
there were unexplained delays. He thought Elevate should pay Mr F £250 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Elevate agreed with our investigators conclusions.
Mr F accepted the mistake with allocation didnt seem to be a mistake made by Elevate. But 
he asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F instructed Elevate to apply for £2,500 worth of shares in the excess open offer. He 
didnt have this amount in his ISA so, in accordance with its terms and conditions, there was 
an automatic disinvestment. I dont find Elevate did anything wrong here  but, following 
Mr Fs complaint, it re-purchased the investments and paid Mr F the difference.
Elevate accepts it should have provided a better service to Mr F  in particular there was a 
delay in re-crediting his account with the £2,500 when it was clear he hadnt been allocated 
any shares. And it failed to keep Mr F updated. Its agreed with our investigators 
recommendation to pay Mr F £250 and I consider this to be fair and reasonable.
Following Mr Fs complaint, Elevate made enquiries of ITM and the registrars. Both 
confirmed that no share allocation was due. ITM explained that, because the excess open 
offer was over-subscribed, allocation was at the directors discretion. I accept this is unusual, 
but I can see this is also how over-subscription was dealt with for ITMs 2020 offer. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that Mr F should have received part or all of his application for 
shares and I dont find that Elevate made a mistake here  it didnt receive any shares that it 
could allocate to him and it returned the £2,500 to his ISA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited 
should pay Mr F £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman