DRN-3754802
The complaint
Mr M complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) registered a claim against 
him unfairly, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M says he contacted Skyfire after an accident he had when he was driving. There were 
no other vehicles involved or any damage other than to Mr Ms car. He was told his policy 
didnt provide cover in the circumstances described. But he says Skyfire has recorded a 
claim against him. He says this has meant the insurance quotes he has obtained have 
nearly doubled in price. 
Mr M says he didnt make a claim so this information should be removed from the industry 
database. He says Skyfire offered to provide a letter that shows no claim was paid, but this 
hasnt helped.    
Skyfire says that Mr M reported an incident where damage was caused to his vehicle. It says 
he advised he was travelling to work at the time, which isnt an activity covered by his policy. 
Skyfire also says Mr M was only covered for third-party fire and theft. This also meant the 
damage to his car wasnt covered for this reason.  
Skyfire says Mr M complained that the incident was recorded on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. It says it explained to him the claim was closed as 
information only and his no-claims discount hadnt been affected. But it was correct that the 
incident remained on the CUE database. 
Mr M didnt think this should affected his insurance premiums and referred his complaint to 
our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Skyfire acted correctly by 
placing a notification only marker on the CUE database which it has a responsibility to do. 
Mr M thought this was unfair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
I can see from Mr Ms policy schedule that he was insured with Skyfire for third party fire and 
theft only. It shows cover is provided for, Social Domestic & pleasure Use only, excluding 
Commuting Use. Mr M explains damage was caused to his car whilst he was driving to 
work. So, its clear there was no cover provided for the loss he suffered under his policy as a 
result of this accident. 
I can understand Mr Ms concern that having recorded this incident on the industry database, 
Skyfire has caused the cost of his motor insurance to increase. Ive thought about whether 
this was fair in the circumstances he describes.   
Ive read the terms and conditions for Mr Ms policy. Under the heading Section 11  
General Conditions it says:
11.3 Reporting loss or damage
If you or your car is involved in any type of accident or loss, you must tell the insurer within 
48 hours of discovering the loss by phoning the 24-hour helpline. You must do this whether 
or not you are at fault and even if you do not plan to claim.
This shows Mr M was expected to report the incident, which is what he did.
Most insurers share information with the CUE database, and this includes Skyfire. Its 
intended to identify misrepresentation and to prevent fraud. This means Skyfire will record 
any incident its made aware of, whether this leads to a claim or not. Insurers can access this 
information when a customer requests cover as part of its risk assessment.  
Skyfire says it has logged the claim correctly. Ive looked at the system information it has 
provided relating to Mr M. This shows the incident was recorded as Notification Only. I can 
see there was no impact on Mr Ms no claims discount, and it was recorded that no payment 
was made by Skyfire in relation to this incident. 
Skyfire has a duty to ensure that the information it records about any incident reported to it, 
is accurate. Based on Mr Ms description of the accident and Skyfires records  Im satisfied 
that the incident was recorded correctly as notification only. I acknowledge Mr M has seen 
an increase in the cost of premiums in the quotes he received following this incident. Im 
sorry these quotes were higher than he expected. But all insurers have their own way of 
assessing risk and calculating premiums. Part of this assessment will involve consideration 
of an individuals claims history and any incidents they have been involved in. 
Mr M didnt make a claim and no payment was made in relation to this incident. But the 
record of this will be available for insurers to see, and this can impact on the price at which 
they set their premiums. Its unfortunate that Mr M has seen an increase in the premiums he 
was quoted  but this doesnt mean Skyfire has behaved unfairly when recording the 
incident in the way it has. 
Skyfire has an obligation to record incidents that are reported to it accurately on the CUE 
database. The evidence shows this is what happened here.  
In summary, I dont think Skyfire treated Mr M unfairly when recording this incident as 
notification only. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman