DRN-3327787
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges he incurred when he voluntarily terminated his finance 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc. He also complains about the voluntary termination 
procedure.  
What happened
In April 2018 Mr C acquired a new car financed through a PCP agreement with Vauxhall. In 
January 2021 Mr C requested Voluntary Termination (VT) of the agreement. He said he read 
the terms and conditions of the VT wear and tear guide and opted to have the car inspected 
and collected from his home address at a cost of £100. Mr C said he ensured the car was 
thoroughly clean inside and out. He said it was in excellent condition and below the 
permitted mileage. Mr C said the only damage he was aware of was a small chip on the rear 
bumper and some corrosion on one of the alloy wheels due to failure of the lacquer. Mr C 
was confident there were no issues for which he could be charged. He said the chip was 
within the permitted size and the wheel lacquer was a warranty issue. The inspector who 
collected the car noted only the chip on the bumper. 
Mr C said he was aware the vehicle would be further inspected after collection but he said 
he was alarmed two weeks later when he discovered Vauxhall were claiming £333 for 
repairs, including a missing key and scuff marks on the trim within the boot. Vauxhall 
subsequently acknowledged they had both keys and apologised. It said Mr C was being 
charged for scuff marks in the boot, which it stated were outside of the wear and tear policy. 
Mr C said he explained they were only superficial marks that would wipe away with an 
interior cleaner and he could have done this had it been spotted by the initial inspector. He 
said he was confident the marks fell within the wear and tear policy. 
He complained to Vauxhall. He said a smart repair wasnt necessary and the £83 charge 
wasnt warranted. He also complained about the lack of procedures for further independent 
assessment when a dispute arises. 
In its final response Vauxhall said the inspection had identified these charges:
Offside rear panel trim scuffed: £38.00
Boot tailgate pad scuffed: £45.00
Offside rear wheel corroded: £60.00
Vauxhall agreed to remove the charge for the rear wheel which left an outstanding damage 
liability charge of £83. It said the remaining charges had been levied correctly and fell 
outside its fair wear and tear guide along with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) own guide.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He felt that Vauxhall had unfairly charged him for 
unnecessary repairs, for superficial scuffs, that, in his opinion appeared to be within 
Vauxhalls accepted wear and tear policy. Mr C also complained that Vauxhalls procedures 
do not allow for further, or independent assessment, where a dispute arises. Mr C goes on to 
say that it should never have billed him for a key, that was not lost. He said he feels hes 
wasted £100, paying for Inspection & Collection from his home address, to avoid this very 
scenario.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but having done so I wont be asking 
Vauxhall to do anything further. 
The car was supplied to Mr C under a finance agreement. Ive seen a copy of this, it 
says
You will keep the vehicle in good condition and repair which means that the 
vehicle must: have a service booklet stamped by an authorised dealer 
showing that it has been regularly serviced and maintained in accordance 
with the manufacturers or UK distributors recommendations; have a valid and 
current MOT and require little or no work for new certificates; need no 
refurbishment for retail sale; be free from mechanical or body damage; in its 
original paint work and trim and with its interior matching the original 
specification free from damage, all subject to fair wear and tear appropriate to 
the age and mileage of the vehicle, based on the agreed mileage limits. 
Mr C VTd the agreement. In the VT guide and check list provided to Mr C through 
the Vauxhall website it says:  
You will need to make arrangements with our voluntary termination team to 
either:
i) return the vehicle to our inspection agents premises free of charge (where 
the vehicle inspection will take place); or
ii) book our optional collection/inspection service at your address, for which a 
charge of £100.00 inc VAT will be payable. One of our collection agents will 
contact you to collect the above fee. If you do not hear from our collection 
agent within 10 days of signing and returning a signed copy of this checklist to 
us, please contact us.
Mr C arranged for the inspection at his home address. He said the inspector noted 
only a chip on the bumper. But Mr C has also acknowledged that he knew the vehicle 
would be inspected again after it had been collected. 
The initial repair sheet listed a missing key. Mr C said he handed over two keys and 
that Vauxhall should never have billed him for a lost key. I can see that once Mr C 
reminded Vauxhall hed returned two keys it removed the charge. I understand this 
must have caused Mr C some frustration, but Vauxhall apologised for this error, 
which I think is reasonable. 
Mr C disputes two charges on the repair sheet totalling £83: offside rear panel trim, 
scuffed and boot tailgate pad, also scuffed.
Vauxhall has provided photos of the damage and I consider this more than would 
reasonably be considered wear and tear in accordance with the BVLRA guidance. 
Mr C has argued that the marks are superficial scuff marks, that he failed to note, as 
did the Collection Agent. He said no smart repair was necessary, other than wiping 
with an interior cleaner, which certainly did not warrant a charge of £83. 
In the VT and wear and tear guides provided by Vauxhall it says:To enable the vehicle to be inspected in detail, the vehicles interior and 
exterior should be valeted, cleaned, cleared of all rubbish 
Vehicle interior, which includes all carpets, trim and upholstery, must be 
clean, and free from holes, heavy wearing, staining, tears, burns, scratches or 
odours. 
While I consider the marks to be scuff marks outside of the wear and tear threshold, I 
also note Mr C said the vehicle was thoroughly cleaned both inside and out as he 
was instructed to do. Ive no reason to dispute Mr C did this. But the marks were still 
visible. 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to instruct Vauxhall to reduce or 
waive the £83 charge.
Mr C has said he feels he wasted £100, paying for Inspection & Collection from his 
home address, to avoid this situation. I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling in this 
matter. But he has himself acknowledged that he knew the vehicle would be 
inspected again.  I havent seen anything in the VT documents which indicates a 
further advantage of paying for the inspection at home other than it being convenient. 
Mr C also complained that Vauxhalls procedures do not allow for further, or 
independent assessment, where a dispute arises. It's not my role to investigate 
Vauxhalls processes. We are not the regulator, and we do not have a role in 
reviewing the adequacy of a business's processes, in this case the process Vauxhall 
uses for VT and when it collects and inspects vehicles. I can see that Vauxhall 
provided a final response to Mr Cs complaint which included referral rights to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, a dispute resolution service, as it was required to do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman