DRN-2196232
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint is about the way Santander UK Plc, trading as Cahoot, settled her 
complaint concerning the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a loan. 
Santander off-set some of the amount it offered Ms M in compensation for the mis-sale 
against the outstanding arrears it said she had on the loan account to which the mis-sold PPI 
policy was attached. 
Ms M has questioned whether Santander was right to offset some of the offer it made her in 
this way. She says Santander didnt use offset in this way on some of the other PPI mis-sale 
offers she has received from the bank. She also thinks that the offer should have been 
higher than it was to reflect the fact that the PPI charges kept the balance on her loan 
artificially high.
What happened
In 2020, Ms M complained to Santander about a PPI policy it had sold her with a loan. 
Santander responded to Ms Ms complaint in a letter dated 11 March 2020 accepting that the 
policy had been mis-sold and offering her £15,427.29 (net of tax) in compensation for this. 
But it said that, if accepted, it would be using £9,031.04 of this offer to offset an outstanding 
balance she still had on the related loan account. 
As Ms M wasnt happy with Santanders offer, she referred her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator was satisfied that there were outstanding arrears on Ms Ms loan account and 
didnt think that Santander had done anything wrong in using some of its PPI compensation 
to offset against these arrears, rather than paying the full compensation offered directly to 
Ms M. So she didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has accepted it mis-sold the PPI policy to Ms M and agreed to compensate her 
for this. So, in this decision, I wont be addressing the issue of how the PPI policy came to be 
sold to Ms M. Ill just be looking at whether the amount of the offer is fair and that Santander 
is fair in saying that it intends to use some of this offer to offset against outstanding arrears 
on her account.
Ive first looked at whether Santander has calculated the offer in the way that I would have 
expected it to.
 
For PPI policies sold on loans we expect a business to refund all the PPI premiums the 
customer has been charged, together with any interest or other fees the consumer has 
incurred as a result of these charges. We also expect the business to add 8% simple interest 
for any time the consumer has been out of pocket because of these.
Santander has provided a detailed breakdown of its compensation calculations. And from 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied that it has calculated the total amount of compensation due for 
this PPI mis-sale in the way in which I would have expected. So I think this calculation is fair. 
Ms M has said she thinks the PPI has caused her loan account balance to be higher than it 
would otherwise have been because of the PPI charges. And whilst she is right to think this, 
the way the offer has been calculated takes account of this and the additional interest shes 
been charged because of the higher balances than would otherwise have been the case. So 
I dont think shes lost out because of this.
Ive next looked at whether Santander were right to offset some of her offer against 
outstanding amounts still owed on her loan account.
In this case, I consider the most relevant law to take account of is the equitable right to set 
off. This allows, in certain circumstances, an individual (or organisation) to set-off closely 
connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe another 
person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For this right of set-off to apply in this case, I must be satisfied that there is a close 
connection between the PPI compensation and any outstanding debt. I must also consider 
whether it would be unjust to allow Santander to use set-off in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that Santander has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation 
offered to Ms M against the outstanding debt it says she still owed on her loan account.
Santander has provided a transaction statement for Ms Ms loan account. From this I can 
see that Ms M still had £9,031.04 outstanding when the account was written off in 
June 2014. And although Santander has written off the debt, it doesnt mean the debt isnt 
still owed by Ms M, it simply means that, at that time, Santander didnt think it was likely to 
be able to recover the debt from Ms M.
 
So Im satisfied from the evidence Santander has provided that, at the time it made its 
compensation offer, there was an outstanding balance on Ms Ms loan account which had 
never been repaid. Im also satisfied from what Ive seen that the PPI policy which is the 
subject of this complaint was directly connected to this loan account. So, in considering the 
right of set-off I have outlined above, I have concluded that the PPI compensation and the 
loan account are closely connected. They are both for the same account of Ms M with 
Santander.
Having decided there is a close connection, I need to think about whether it would be unjust 
to allow Santander to set off in this way. And, as I have already identified, I think Santander 
made it clear to Ms M that, if the offer was accepted, it would offset some of this offer against 
her outstanding arrears. And Im not aware of any other reason why it would be unfair for 
Santander to use the right of set-off in these circumstances. Indeed, if Santander were to 
pay the full amount of the compensation it has offered directly to Ms M, its likely that she 
would be receiving money back that shed never actually paid to Santander for the policy in 
the first place. And I think it is evident that this wouldnt be fair.
In summary and from the information and evidence Ive seen, I think the full offer made by 
Santander was fair. And I think it was reasonable for Santander to apply set off in these circumstances. The PPI policy and the credit card debt were closely associated and I 
consider that it is just to allow Santander to use set-off in this way.
So I dont think Santander has done anything wrong in the way it has offered to settle Ms Ms 
mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK Plc. If 
Santander UK Plc hasnt already paid the net amount due after set-off to Ms M it should now 
update its offer and pay this net amount to Ms M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman