DRN-3003813
The complaint
Ms E complains Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
Ms E is represented by a claims management company, but for ease of reference Ill refer to 
all submissions as if she made them directly. 
What happened
In September 2019, Ms E was approved for a £250 capital amount loan to be repaid over 18 
months, with monthly repayments of approximately £57. Ms E says that Loans 2 Go did not 
complete proportionate checks before the loan was approved. And had it done so, Loans 2 
Go wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to her. Ms E says she was experiencing 
financial hardship before the loan was approved; and this continued afterwards. Ms E says 
she has lost out financially on the basis she has had had to pay additional interest and 
charges.
Loans 2 Go disagree it lent irresponsibly. It says it completed proportionate checks; and the 
information it gathered demonstrated Ms E could afford the loan sustainably. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. In coming to their conclusion, they 
argued:
Loans 2 Go had completed proportionate checks. This was because the loan value 
was low; and the information Loans 2 Go completed gave it a decent insight into     
Ms Es financial circumstances;
Even though proportionate checks had been completed; Loans 2 Go had still not 
made a fair decision to lend. This was because the information Loans 2 Go had 
gathered at the point of sale, showed that Ms E was already exceeding a number of 
her existing credit limits. As such, they werent persuaded that Ms E was in a position 
to take on further credit, or sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators assessment. It maintained it had considered all 
of Ms Es existing commitments; and the information it had did not demonstrate that Ms E 
was struggling financially. It also highlighted that the loan value was small, and that Miss E 
had not missed a repayment. It says Ms E settled the loan early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Ms E. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Loans 2 Go lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Ms Es ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Loans 2 Go to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Considering all of the information which has been provided; Im satisfied that Loans 2 Go 
completed proportionate checks in this instance. The amount being advanced here was low; 
and as such Loans 2 Gos checks needed to give it a decent understanding of Ms Es 
finances. The loans purpose was described as other. In this instance Loans 2 Go 
completed an income and expenditure assessment on Ms E; and used an income 
verification tool to readjust the figure it was presented with (it lowered the figure Ms E 
declared for her income). It also searched Ms Es credit file; and used this information to help 
calculate some of Ms Es outgoings. So, considering these checks gave Loans 2 Go a 
decent understanding of Ms Es financial commitments; and it had adjusted the information it 
had been given, Im satisfied it completed proportionate checks.
Even though Loans 2 Go completed proportionate checks; it still had to carefully consider 
the information it had before deciding to lend to Ms E. And it needed to ensure any decision 
to lend was sustainable  meaning that Ms E could repay the loan without incurring further 
hardship or having to borrow further.  
Looking at the information which was collected; Im not persuaded that Loans 2 Go made a 
fair decision to lend. The credit search showed that Ms E had a large number of active 
existing credit accounts. The report showed that Ms E was utilising these existing credit lines 
to over 90% of her total limits. Importantly the credit report showed that Ms E was exceeding 
a number of these existing credit accounts. She had exceeded two credit cards, both of 
which had higher limits than the amount being advanced. The total amount she had exceed 
was also higher than the amount being borrowed from Loans 2 Go. 
The report also shows that Ms E had taken out a further credit card and unsecured loan in 
the months leading up to this application. Ms E had already placed a large amount of money 
on this new credit card. The report also suggests that Ms E was exercising the use of an 
overdraft facility on her current account. 
Considering this information, Im not persuaded that Loans 2 Go made a fair decision to 
lend. As stated above, Loans 2 Go needed to ensure any further lending was sustainable to 
Ms E; and this means being able to make repayments without incurring hardship or having to 
borrow further. Loans 2 Go also needed to ensure it wasnt lending to someone who was 
already in financial difficulties. Im satisfied the information on the credit report demonstrated 
that this was likely the case for Ms E. In particular the fact she was exceeding her credit 
limits, using an overdraft to a large amount; and had recently taken on more credit 
demonstrates that it was likely her finances were such that any further lending was not 
sustainable. The fact she had exceeded her credit limits on multiple accounts also 
demonstrates that she was more likely than not already in financial difficulties at the point of 
the application. In addition to this, this loan was taken out for the purpose of other. Meaning that it was 
more likely than not that the lending was going to be increasing Ms Es overall level of 
indebtedness. The amount being advanced was also not sufficient to clear Ms Es existing 
debts, or even reduce the amount she had exceeded on her credit cards. 
So taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that the information Loans 2 Go had 
demonstrated that Ms E was not in the financial position to take on more lending. And that 
any further lending was more likely than not to be unsustainable for her, whilst placing her 
into further financial difficulties. As such Im satisfied Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in provided 
this loan to Ms E.
Putting things right
Ms E has lost out financially as a result of this loan, as she has had to pay additional interest 
and charges associated with it. As such I require Loans 2 Go Limited to do the following to 
put things right:
Refund any interest and charges which Ms E paid as a result of this loan;
Pay Ms E 8% simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse information on her credit file in relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go must give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Loans 2 Go Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman