DRN-3624345
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc will not refund him the money he lost after he says he fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr M says that after seeing an advertisement for a vehicle through a well-known online 
classified advertisement website, he contacted the seller to enquire about it. 
Mr M has provided chat messages between him and the seller which show the purchase 
price of £25,000 was agreed. The seller requested part payment of £1,250 in cash with the 
remaining £23,750 to be paid via bank transfer. It was agreed payment would take place 
upon collection on 24 November 2019. 
On 23 November 2019, Mr M sent a £1 tester payment to the account details provided for 
the seller. Then on 24 November 2019, upon meeting the seller and having seen the vehicle 
Mr M says he paid £1,250 in cash for the vehicle and transferred a further £23,750 via his 
mobile banking app on the same day.
Mr M says the next day he dropped the vehicle off at a local garage to have body work 
carried out to fix some damage and the vehicle wrapped to change the colour to blue. 
In January 2020, Mr M took the vehicle for a service. He says at this point the garage 
notified him that the vehicle hadnt been manufactured in the year hed expected  it was a 
2014 model and not a 2016 model as hed thought. It was then that he says he realised hed 
fallen victim to a scam.
Mr M contacted Santander to ask for its help; reporting that hed fallen victim to a scam.
In February 2020, Santander said it couldnt help. It said the Contingent Reimbursement 
Code (The CRM Code) didnt apply to the payment Mr M had sent because it considered it a 
civil matter between Mr M and the seller. 
In August 2020, police attended Mr Ms property in relation to the vehicle being
stolen. The police seized the vehicle.
Mr M complained to Santander and it issued its initial response to his complaint in 
September 2020, where it maintained its position that this matter would be classed as a civil 
dispute. 
Mr M asked Santander to re-review his claim. Having done so, Santander issued its final 
response letter on 6 November 2020. In this, it said it had reviewed all of the information 
Mr M had provided and had also spoken with the police. It added that it had identified some 
inconsistencies with the information Mr M had provided and maintained its initial decision not 
to reimburse him the money hed lost.  
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response and brought the matter to our service. An 
investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint but Santander disagreed with his view.
It didnt agree that Mr M had fallen victim to a scam and so his loss wasnt covered by the 
scope of the CRM Code. But it said that even if it did consider the event was covered by the 
CRM Code it would still decide not to reimburse Mr M.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 July 2022 explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. In brief, I explained that I didnt think it was clear, based on the evidence 
Id seen, as to whether Mr M had fallen victim to a scam or not.  But as Santander had said it 
wouldnt reimburse Mr M even if it considered the payment had been covered by the CRM 
Code, I went on to consider whether Santander had acted fairly and reasonably in reaching 
this conclusion.
The starting proposition of the CRM Code is that a customer should be reimbursed if they fall 
victim to an APP scam unless one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement apply. For 
example, where a customer ignored an effective warning, or where in the circumstances the 
customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was 
the person the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services, and/or that the person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate.
In my provisional decision I explained that I didnt think I could fairly conclude Mr M had a 
reasonable basis for belief that he was making a legitimate payment. I explained that in 
reaching that view, and having considered all the available evidence, I had taken into 
account of the fact there were inconsistencies regarding what had happened, and within 
Mr Ms submissions. 
For example, I noted there was a discrepancy regarding the date Mr M acquired the vehicle. 
The DVLA records showed a date of 9 November 2019 which doesnt match the date Mr M 
made the payment and says he took ownership of the vehicle. There was also an 
inconsistency relating to where Mr M met the scammer to acquire the vehicle. Mr M told us 
he met the scammer at his residential address. But Id also seen evidence which shows 
Mr M had said he met the scammer at a service station. Having considered the evidence 
carefully, and taking account of the inconsistencies in Mr Ms submissions, I wasnt 
persuaded by what Mr M has told us, and in turn I wasnt satisfied I could fairly conclude 
Mr M had a reasonable basis of belief that the payment he was making was legitimate;  I 
didnt find his testimony reliable.
I also considered whether Santander had met the standards required of it under the CRM 
Code and whether it presented Mr M with an effective warning. I concluded that even if 
Santander had provided an effective warning at the time Mr M made the payment, I didnt 
think this failure wouldve had a material impact in preventing Mr M from proceeding with the 
payment. I wasnt persuaded Mr M wouldve decided not to buy the vehicle in the face of an 
effective warning, particularly as hes told us and the bank that he didnt pay for vehicle until 
collection. 
With the above in mind, I didnt think Santander had acted unfairly in not reimbursing Mr M 
under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
The bank responded and said it had nothing further to add. Mr M provided further comments 
for my consideration. Ive read all his submissions and summarised them as: 
Mr Ms reiterated that the steps hed taken and the due diligence he completed was 
in line with the guidance of the DVLA and a known motoring association when buying 
a vehicle.In response to my finding that Im unable to fairly conclude he had a reasonable 
basis for belief that he was making a legitimate payment, Mr M considers this to have 
been made on opinion as opposed to the facts.
In relation to the discrepancy with the date Mr M acquired the vehicle and the DVLA 
records, he reiterated that he is unable to provide an explanation for this. He believes 
the incorrect date could have arisen from the two sources involved in the 
administration process - the seller or the DVLA. Mr M requested that a greater level 
of importance be applied to the date the payment was made.
Mr M reiterated where he met the scammer, viewed and collected the vehicle.
Mr M has also shared an article which he feels outlines how the CRM Code is in 
place to reimburse individuals who fall victim to scams unless banking warnings were 
ignored, or they acted grossly negligently. Mr M feels he is being penalised for 
undertaking due diligence on the vehicle in light of my findings that I dont think any 
warning the bank gave him wouldve prevent him from proceeding to make the 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised Mr Ms response to my provisional findings, I would like to 
reassure him that I have read and considered all of his further comments. Much of what hes 
said simply reiterates his previous points, and so I wont repeat everything I said before in 
my provisional decision. But I would say that I still have concerns about the consistency of 
his submissions.
When we look at complaints where customers complain theyve fallen victim to a scam, its 
really important for us to establish what has happened so that first and foremost we can be 
satisfied a scam has taken place. And, particularly in relation to complaints potentially 
covered by the CRM Code, whether any exceptions to reimbursement might apply. In this 
particular case, the inconsistencies in Mr Ms submissions have called into question the 
circumstances of what happened. 
Because of those inconsistencies, Im not persuaded Ive been given a full and complete 
account of the circumstances surrounding this payment. Without such an account, Im 
neither able to safely conclude that Mr M was the victim of a scam nor give a proper 
assessment of whether he had a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate 
payment. It follows that I think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in deciding not to 
refund Mr M the money he lost under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
For completeness, Im mindful Mr M also paid £1,250 to the seller in cash. For the provisions 
of the CRM Code to apply, a payment must (among other less relevant conditions) be a 
faster payment, CHAPS payment or a payment between two accounts at the same bank that 
would otherwise be a faster payment. As Mr M made a cash payment, the CRM code 
doesnt apply. And having reviewed Mr Ms bank statements, I dont consider this to have 
been a remarkable withdrawal, given the previous account activity. Because of this, I 
wouldnt have expected Santander to have questioned this at the time. So I dont find 
Santander is liable to refund the money hes lost. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr M, but in the particular circumstances of this case, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Santander has acted unfairly in deciding not to 
reimburse Mr M the money he has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman