DRN-1693247
Complaint
Mrs C complained to us that she was mis-sold mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
cover in 2003. Santander UK PLC is responsible for answering the complaint.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint and told Mrs C its unlikely to 
be upheld. She disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs C used a third party company to bring her complaint, a major part of which is that she 
didnt even know she had PPI. Whilst I certainly dont doubt she now genuinely feels the PPI 
was mis-sold, these events were a long time ago and Im afraid the evidence does tend to 
point the other way.
Ive looked, for example, at a welcome letter Mrs C was sent at the time. This specifically 
refers to the PPI and I think it was obvious enough that she had agreed to buy this type of 
cover. Weve got no original PPI application form anymore, but I think this letter shows that 
Mrs C ought to have been aware of the sale. I also note the letter explained that certain 
amounts were being drawn from her bank account to pay for the premiums, so I think she 
would also have been aware of the money leaving her account.
On this basis, I think theres quite reliable evidence that Mrs C had agreed to the cover and 
would have been able to see such a policy had been set up. I think if she hadnt ever agreed, 
she would have wanted know why the letter had arrived although I completely accept she 
may not remember all this after 17 years.
Knowing what I do about these types of sales, I think the policy was probably recommended 
to her when she was arranging her borrowing with Santander. This means the policy should 
have have been suitable for her needs. Overall, I think it was. 
I say this because Mrs C appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Mrs C implied she didnt need 
the cover because she also had sickness protection with her job. Ive thought very carefully 
about her job and the likely benefits it could have had. But this doesnt make the PPI 
unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Mrs Cs home and so the consequences of 
her not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the event of a 
successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months. This would have been in 
addition to any other means she already had in place at the time. I see the company representing Mrs C has said she had life assurance. It hasnt sent us any 
evidence of this but this covers different things to PPI and so doesnt affect my decision. I 
cant say why Mrs C decided to buy this policy, but I dont think it being recommended it to 
her was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been. But I can see 
the costs of the cover were set out on the letter Ive mentioned above, as were some brief 
details about what was covered. So I think she had enough information on which to make an 
informed decision.
Overall, I think theres solid evidence that the policy was not mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mrs C.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman