DRN-3609984
The Complaint
Mrs C and the estate of Mr C say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare sold on 20 May 2007 (the Time of 
Sale).
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mrs C and Mr C bought a points-based timeshare (the Timeshare) at the Time 
of Sale. They paid for the Timeshare using finance from GE Money  having entered into 
what appears to have been a joint 10-year Fixed Sum Loan Agreement (the Credit 
Agreement). The amount lent to Mrs C and Mr C was £6,264, including a £65 acceptance 
fee. The total amount payable after interest and a three-month deferral period was 
£12,955.20.
It isnt clear, from the information on file, who the loan proceeds were paid to. But the 
Acquisition Agreement dated 20 May 2007 (the Acquisition Agreement) was made between 
Business A, Business B and Mrs C and Mr C. And Business B looks like it was a sales 
company that had the right to promote and sell the Timeshare  such that it was the supplier 
for the purposes of the CCA (the Supplier). 
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mrs C  using a representative (LF) 
 wrote to GE Money on 2 August 2018 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
The Letter of Claim made these claims for a number of reasons  which both sides are 
familiar with. So, I wont repeat them here. But the upshot of that Letter was that Mrs C 
would not have made the purchase at the Time of Sale but for the mistakes and 
misrepresentations at that time.
GE Money responded to the Letter of Claim to say that it couldnt locate an account in 
Mrs Cs name. So, it asked for more information on 14 August and 4 and 18 September 
2018 in order to answer the claims  which doesnt appear to have been provided by LF. 
A complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 8 November 2018. 
However, it was only Mrs C joined to the complaint at that time. 
GE Money still couldnt locate an account in Mrs Cs name after this complaint had been 
referred. But on 30 November 2021, it issued its final response to this complaint. And, in 
summary, it said the following:
1. The allegations of misrepresentation and unaffordable lending had been made too 
late under the six and three-year time limit set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(the FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP).
2. Allegations that relate to the information exchanged at the Time of Sale cant be 
investigated fully and fairly as GE Money didnt sell the Timeshare and wasnt present 
at the sale. So, concerns of that nature are better dealt with by Business B.
3. Allegations that relate to maintenance fees, the standard of accommodation and the 
availability of holidays dont fall within the scope of Section 75 of the CCA as they 
dont amount to a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
4. The assertion that the Supplier breached its fiduciary duty is out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
5. The assertion that the Supplier failed to disclose the commission paid in relation to 
the Credit Agreement, which gave rise to an unfair relationship under Section 140A, is 
out of time under the LA.
However, GE Money did offer £50 in recognition of how long it had taken to issue the final 
response.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator. She thought that the Section 75 and 
Section 140A claims looked like they had been made out of time under the LA. She 
wasnt persuaded by the assertion that the lending in question was unaffordable. And she 
thought the offer of £50 was reasonable.
M, the professional representative now acting on this complaint, disagreed with what the 
investigator had to say about the Section 75 and 140A claims and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. M didnt give the investigator any reasons why. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) and, in 
summary, I concluded the following:
The FCAs six and three-year rule didnt limit what the Financial Ombudsman Service 
could consider on this occasion.
The Section 75 and 140A claims were made out of time under the LA.
I hadnt seen anything to suggest GE Money would have breached a duty by paying 
commission  nor had I seen anything to suggest it was under a regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of commission paid in the circumstances. I also thought it was 
unlikely that the levels of commission were high enough to put GE Money on notice that 
not disclosing commission to Mrs C and Mr C risked making their debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair under Section 140A.
I hadnt seen enough evidence to persuade me that the loan from GE Money was 
unaffordable.
Neither side disagreed with reasons as to why in response to my PD. And as the deadline 
for responses has now been and gone, Ive considered the complaint for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done all of that, I still dont think theres a reason to uphold this complaint.Was the right arrangement in place to engage Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA?
Under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to claims under those provisions. And as the Acquisition Agreement was 
made between Business A, Business B and Mrs C and Mr C, its possible that there was 
no such agreement in place if the proceeds of the loan from GE Money went to Business A 
rather than Business B.
However, as I said in my PD, I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on this 
point because, even if I did find that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place, 
for reasons I get on to below, I think GE Money had and has a defence to the claims in 
question under the LA.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under
Section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And a claim under that provision is 
an action founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
LF made a like claim against GE Money under Section 75 of the CCA on behalf of Mrs C 
and the estate of Mr C. And the limitation period for that claim is the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. So, this means that there was six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued to make the claim in question.
The cause of action accrued when Mrs C and Mr C entered into the Acquisition and Credit 
Agreements. I say this because the Letter of Claim says that they entered into the 
Acquisition Agreement based on the misrepresentations of the Supplier  which they relied 
on. And as the loan from GE Money was used to help finance the purchase of the 
Timeshare, it was when they entered into the Credit Agreement that they suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that as this claim wasnt made until August 2018, it is likely to have been 
late. And for that reason, I still think GE Money had and has a defence to it.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs C and 
Mr C and GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant 
law, I do have to consider it.
Schedule 3 of the Consumer Credit Act 2006 sets out the credit agreements to which 
Section 140A applies. And in short, if a credit agreement started after 6 April 2007, it is 
possible to make a claim under Section 140A in relation to that credit agreement.
It looks like GE Money still cant trace an account in the names of Mrs C and/or Mr C  which 
means it still hasnt provided much evidence of when the Credit Agreement ended as a 
result. But as GE Money says, in line with its retention policy, any records in relation to the 
Credit Agreement may have been destroyed because it ended more than six years ago. So, 
as I said in my PD, based on how long businesses tend to keep records for, and in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I thought it was more likely than not that the Credit 
Agreement ended at least six years prior to the point at which this claim was made given the 
fact that GE Money cant trace the Credit Agreement. As that finding isnt in dispute following 
my PD, I still think thats likely to be the case. With that being said, therefore, Ive reconsidered the provisions under the LA as it also 
applies to claims under Section 140A. As Ive said before, it was held in 
Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit 
agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. And as the limitation 
period is six years, I still think GE Money is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this 
claim given its timing. And for that reason, I see no reason to ask GE Money to do anything 
further in relation to this claim either.
Commission
Had such a payment been made, I still havent seen anything to suggest GE Money would 
have breached a duty by making it  nor have I seen or been presented with anything in 
response to my PD to suggest it was under a regulatory duty to disclose the amount of 
commission paid in these circumstances. And as I said in my provisional findings, from 
what Ive seen across the timeshare industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be 
low. So, for that reason, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I still think its 
unlikely that the levels of commission normally paid in situations like the one in question 
were high enough to put GE Money on notice that not disclosing commission to Mrs C and 
Mr C risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 140A.
Unaffordable Lending
The Letter of Claim suggests that GE Money lent irresponsibly. The assertion was framed 
as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. And Ive already 
explained why I think that claim is likely to fall outside of the time limit set by the LA. 
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity 
covered by our jurisdiction at the Time of Sale. But its still the case that very little has been 
said about this particular allegation. And as Ive said before, even if I were to find that 
GE Money failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no 
such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs C and Mr C 
before also concluding that they lost out as a result. As I still havent seen anything to 
persuade me that was the case, I dont think this is a reason to uphold this complaint given 
its circumstances. 
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant 
claims against the Supplier or GE Money have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that might exist against GE Money is likely to 
have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And for that reason, Im not 
persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in this complaint.
As I said in my PD, GE Money did offer £50 in recognition of how long it had taken to issue 
its final response. But as that offer and the timing of the final response still isnt in dispute, 
if the offer is still available, its for Mrs C and the estate of Mr C to accept it should they 
decide to do that.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and the 
estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman