DRN-3656925
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as O, has complained about the settlement received 
from certain underwriters at Society of Lloyd's under its Commercial Combined Insurance 
policy. 
Mr F, as one of the directors of O, has brought the complaint on Os behalf. 
What happened
O made a claim under the policy after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. The underwriters initially refused the claim but reconsidered it 
after the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case in January 
2021, and accepted the claim. The underwriters agreed to pay losses of just over £100,000 
for the three-month period from 21 March to 21 June 2020, as the underwriters says cover 
under the notifiable diseases section of cover is limited to cover for three months.  
O is very unhappy about this and says definition of maximum indemnity period relied on by 
the underwriters is not included in the diseases cover part of the policy. Given this it says the 
indemnity period is up to 24 months. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and did not recommend it be upheld. She 
was satisfied that the policy documentation made clear that cover for claims related to 
notifiable diseases was limited to a period of three months. 
O does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Os policy provides cover for business interruption losses due to an occurrence of a 
notifiable disease at the premises.  It says: 
Section 2 Business Interruptions 
What is covered
12. Notifiable disease, vermin, defective sanitary arrangements, murder and suicide
Consequential loss following: 
a) Any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises 
b)  the discovery of vermin or pests at the premises which causes restrictions on the 
use of the premises on the order of the competent local authority;
c) any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the
premises which causes restrictions on the use of the premises on the order of the
competent local authority; or
d) any murder, manslaughter, grievous bodily harm or suicide at the premises;
e) the malicious deposit at the premises of radioactive isotopes that will cause bodily 
injury;
f) any enforcement action taken in the territorial limits under the Food Safety Act 
1990 against products of yours of which later analysis establishes are not 
contaminated and are safe for human consumption.
The definitions relevant to this section of the policy include the following: 
Indemnity period
The period beginning when damage occurs, and ending when the results of the 
business cease to be affected following damage, but not exceeding the maximum 
indemnity period. 
However for the Notifiable disease additional cover the following definition applies:
the period during which the results of the business will be affected following the loss, 
discovery or accident beginning:
a) in the case of a), d), e) and f) with the date of the loss or discovery; or
b) in the case of b) and c) with the date from which the restrictions on the premises 
are applied and ending not later than the maximum indemnity period after that
For the Lottery win by your employees additional cover the following definition 
applies: the period during which the business results are affected due to an 
employee or group of employees resigning from their posts within your business as a 
direct result of their securing a win in a lottery, starting from the date of their first 
departure.
Maximum indemnity period 
The period stated in the schedule, other than under the Notifiable disease, Loss of 
attraction and Lottery win by your employees additional covers where it is 3 months.
The schedule of insurance, which sets out a summary of the main terms says: 
Business Interruption sum insured  £320,000indemnity period 24 months 
O says that as the claim is being met under section 12 a) (Any occurrence of a notifiable 
disease at the premises) the maximum indemnity limit does not apply, as section a) of the 
definition of indemnity period above simply says that cover starts from the date of loss or 
discovery and doesnt mention the maximum indemnity period. It is only part b) (which 
refers to claims made under 12 b) and c) for restrictions of use of the premises as a result of 
vermin and sanitary defects) which mentions the maximum indemnity limit. O therefore says 
the three-month limit does not apply to its claim.
The reference to the maximum indemnity period in part b) of the indemnity period definition 
is not on a separate line, so I can understand why O says it only applies to part b). However, 
having considered everything, I do not agree that the maximum indemnity period does not 
apply to part a) as well. 
The definition of indemnity period sets out when cover would start under each peril. All 
claims will then be subject to an end date. The definition of maximum indemnity period 
states the cover is as set out in the schedule, unless it is a claim for a notifiable disease, loss 
of attraction or a lottery win, when cover is for three months. It does not state that the three months limit only applies to part of the notifiable disease cover. If it was intended to only 
apply to claims for vermin and sanitary defects then it could say so but it doesnt. 
I also note that the indemnity period definition doesnt include reference to the maximum 
period of indemnity when setting out when cover for a lottery win would start but it is clear 
that claims under this cover would be subject to the three month limit. 
In my opinion, the policy is sufficiently clear and unambiguous. I consider the underwriters 
are entitled to rely on this limit of indemnity for disease claims and therefore I do not intend 
to require them to pay anything further in relation to this claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman