DRN-1584716
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) offered to 
settle their contents insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have contents insurance including accidental damage, on a new for old basis. 
They made a claim for damage to their TV which CIS accepted. However, Mr and Mrs M 
dont think CIS offered a suitable replacement TV because it doesnt support 3D. Their 
damaged TV did. They are also unhappy with the amount CIS offered as a cash settlement 
because they dont think it covers the cost of replacing the TV on a like for like basis. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He noted that CIS accepted the 
claim and contacted the manufacturer to arrange a repair or replacement. The manufacturer 
told CIS it doesnt make 3D TVs anymore and it doesnt do repairs. CIS obtained 
independent quotes for the value of the TV and advice on similar models. After speaking 
with the manufacturer, it felt the cost of replacing the TV at todays prices was more than the 
independent quote suggested. CIS offered to pay a cash settlement of the greater amount to 
Mr and Mrs M or to replace their TV with the newer model suggested by the manufacturer. In 
light of this, our investigator felt that CIS made a fair offer to replace Mr and Mrs Ms TV with 
a newer model or settle the claim in cash, minus the policy excess. 
Mr and Mrs M dont agree with our investigator because they think CIS should pay them the 
full purchase price of their original TV or replace it with one which has improved technology. 
The purchase price was around three times the amount CIS offered as a cash settlement. 
They also think the manufacturer only suggested the alternative TV because its a model it 
needs to sell of.
The complaint is now with me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I empathise with Mr and Mrs M because of the circumstances surrounding the 
damage to their TV, I have decided not to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
To begin with, there is no dispute about the damage to the TV or the fact that it is covered by 
Mr and Mrs Ms contents insurance. Nor is there any dispute about the manufacturers report 
that the TV cant be repaired or replaced on a like for like basis. The terms and conditions of 
the policy set out the options available to CIS when dealing with a new for old, accidental 
damage claim. In the circumstances of this complaint, the options are for CIS to replace the 
TV with a different one or offer a cash settlement. CIS offered both options to Mr and Mrs M 
so I am satisfied that it has done what it shouldve done in respect of this point.The next thing to think about is whether CIS made fair offers. I can see that it asked for a 
quote for the value of the TV at todays prices from both an independent company and the 
TV manufacturer. CIS accepted the manufacturers quoted value which was greater than the 
independent one. As it had two different quotes, I think CIS acted fairly in offering the greater 
of the two to Mr and Mrs M as a cash settlement.
CIS also offered to replace the TV and I must consider whether it followed good practice 
when doing so. Both the manufacturer and the independent company suggested an 
alternative TV. CIS offered Mr and Mrs M the manufacturers recommended replacement 
because it was the same brand and I note it was the greatest value of the two. Again, I am 
satisfied that CIS acted fairly in offering the TV of greater value.
Here I must consider whether CIS offered a replacement TV of a similar technical 
specification to the damaged one. In doing so I have looked at what function Mr and Mrs M 
commented on - the 3D capability. CIS hasnt offered a TV with 3D capability but thats 
because theyre not manufactured anymore. I cant see anything to suggest the TV it offered 
was of a lesser specification and CIS reports that its a more advanced model. I see Mr and 
Mrs M asked for an Android TV but CIS rejected their request because Android TVs are 
significantly more advanced and of greater value than their original TV. I wouldnt expect CIS 
to offer a TV which was an improvement on the damaged one so I think its rejection was fair. 
In light of this, I think CIS offered a reasonable replacement TV.
Finally, I have thought about whether Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of CISs decision 
about their claim. Theres no dispute that CIS hasnt offered a replacement 3D TV so theyve 
lost that function. But its not because of any failure by CIS. In the absence of availability of 
3D TVs, it offered the next best thing or a cash settlement. I think thats fair. Should Mr and 
Mrs M prefer to accept the cash settlement they would be able to choose whichever model 
of TV they feel best fits their requirements.
In summary, I am satisfied that CIS correctly accepted Mr and Mrs Ms claim and that it 
made a fair offer to settle it. I understand Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I dont think CIS needs to do any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman