DRN-3556040
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr E used to hold with TSB Bank plc trading as 
Whistletree. Hes unhappy that TSB refused to help him when he got into financial 
difficulties, and that it initiated legal action for possession prematurely. Mr E says he felt 
compelled to sell the mortgaged property and repay the mortgage. Mr E believes TSBs 
treatment of him was racially motivated, and that he would have received a fairer deal if he 
had been white.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 8 June 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of 
documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence 
are less relevant to the underlying case than others. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using 
my own words and rounding the figures involved.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, 
and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is 
consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in 
some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from 
our investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to 
repeat all the details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I 
dont include any information that might result in Mr E being identified. I will therefore 
keep my summary of the complaint quite brief.
Mr E took the mortgage out in 2006; it was originally with a lender Ill call N. It was a 
non-advised mortgage; that is, one where it was for Mr E to satisfy himself that it 
was suitable for his needs and circumstances. In March 2016, N agreed to allow Mr 
E to let the property out on a temporary basis. The letter confirming consent to let 
(CTL) was addressed to Mr Es correspondence address (Ill call it 92M) and 
specified that consent was for one year and would expire on 17 March 2017. In July 
2016, TSB wrote to Mr E at 92M to tell him it had taken the mortgage over from N.
In February 2017, TSB wrote to Mr E at 92M to remind him that the CTL would be 
ending the following month. It said he should either confirm he was returning to the 
mortgaged property or contact it to discuss alternative arrangements. A new 
correspondence address (Ill refer to it as 10T) was then recorded and in April 2017, 
TSB sent out a reminder that CTL had expired. Unfortunately, it omitted the number 
10 from the address on the letter. It sent a chaser letter on 24 May 2017, but this too 
was wrongly addressed.
In August 2017, Mr E asked TSB for a payment holiday to help him over short-term 
difficulties. This was refused on the grounds that the mortgaged property was being 
let without consent but it was agreed that Mr E would miss the August 2017 payment 
and catch up in September, and TSB would send out another CTL pack. Mr E 
complained, and TSB issued a final response rejecting the complaint. The final 
response and the CTL pack were both sent out with the number 10 missing from the 
address. Eventually, the address error was identified and TSB wrote to Mr E at 10T 
on 29 September 2017 confirming the address was now correctly recorded.
On 5 October 2017, in response to a new request to let from Mr E, TSB sent a fresh 
CTL pack addressed to 10T; on 16 November 2017, having not received a reply, 
TSB wrote to 10T saying that it had cancelled the CTL request. It reminded Mr E in 
this letter that without permission to let the mortgaged property out, he could be in 
breach of his mortgage conditions.
In January 2018, TSB instructed solicitors to begin legal action to recover arrears of 
around £4,600. Mr E spoke to TSB on the phone on 3 February 2018, during which 
TSB declined to offer an arrangement to pay. Mr E complained, and TSB issued a 
final response on 8 February 2018 rejecting the complaint. Another CTL request was 
submitted. On 9 March 2018, TSB wrote rejecting the CTL request. On 24 March 
2018, with arrears now a little over £6,000, TSB wrote to say it was starting 
possession proceedings by applying for a court hearing. A date of 30 April 2018 was 
set for the court hearing. Before that could take place, Mr E sold the property and the 
mortgage was repaid in full on 5 April 2018.
In early 2019, TSB received a complaint from Mr E about entries it had made on his 
credit file reporting missed mortgage payments. TSB issued a final response on 6 
February 2019 rejecting the complaint. It said the reporting it had made was a fair 
reflection of how the mortgage account had been conducted.
In 2020, a third party was appointed by TSB to conduct a review of its complaint-
handling; Mr Es case was one of those reviewed and the outcome eventually led to 
another complaint from Mr E, which TSB replied to in a final response dated 
29 January 2021. In this, TSB summarised the complaint as being about how it had 
treated Mr E since he got into financial difficulty in August 2017, problems he 
experienced when trying to contact the business on the number it had provided, and 
a general lack of awareness or note-taking in relation to his situation. The final 
response revisited all that had happened in 2017 and 2018; TSB apologised for the 
addressing errors between April and September 2017, and for shortcomings in the 
way its agent had handled Mr Es phone call of 3 February 2018. 
TSB also conceded that its decision to start legal action had been premature; to 
remedy this, it refunded, with interest, the legal costs it had charged to the mortgage 
account, and offered Mr E £500 compensation for his time, trouble and upset. Thats 
when Mr E referred his concerns to this service.
The investigator who looked into the complaint initially thought TSB should remove 
the adverse entries from Mr Es credit file, reasoning that it could have agreed a 
payment arrangement in February 2018. However, he subsequently revised his 
opinion on this point. In a follow-up view, he said that even if a payment arrangement 
had been agreed, it was likely that Mr E wouldnt have been able to keep to it. But also, he said that TSB wasnt being unreasonable in citing the continued absence of 
a CTL as a reason for refusing a payment arrangement in any event. 
The earlier address mistakes notwithstanding, the investigator noted that TSB had 
sent a CTL pack to the right address in October 2017 and Mr E hadnt sent it back. 
On the remaining aspects of the complaint, the investigator thought TSB had 
responded reasonably and fairly and didnt recommend any further redress be paid.  
Mr E asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont have to decide whether TSB sent important correspondence to an incorrect 
address. Nor do I have to decide whether TSB acted prematurely in starting litigation. 
Thats because on both counts, TSB has admitted getting things wrong, apologised 
and paid Mr E redress. What I do have to decide is whether and to what extent those 
errors impacted on the wider issue of how TSB treated Mr E on being informed he 
was in financial difficulties, and whether further redress is due as a result.
Ill start with Mr Es request for a payment holiday in August 2017. The first 
observation Id make is that, contrary to his belief, this was not something to which 
Mr E was automatically entitled. Ive seen the mortgage contract from 2006 and 
heres what it says:
Payment holidays
Following 9 full consecutive monthly payments you may apply for a one-
month mortgage payment holiday. This may be applied for once in every 12 
month period following completion of your mortgage. If you choose not to take 
a payment holiday in any given 12 month period, you may accumulate the 
right to take up to a maximum of 3 payment holidays in any one 12 month 
period. In certain circumstances we will consider applications for payment 
holidays of up to 6 months. For example to coincide with maternity/paternity 
leave.
All payment holidays are subject to [Ns] prior agreement. You should note 
that interest will continue to be charged during a payment holiday.
Im satisfied that this makes clear that whilst the accrual of payment holidays is a 
provision in the contract, the granting of a holiday remains subject to the lender (at 
the time of the offer that was N, but since 2016 it has been TSB) agreeing to it. In 
other words, whether or not a payment holiday request was granted was a matter for 
TSBs commercial judgement taking into account the wider circumstances in play at 
the time of the request. My remit doesnt extent to substituting my commercial judgement in place of TSBs, but it does allow me to consider whether TSB exercised 
its judgement fairly in accordance with its lending policy.
The reason TSB gave for refusing a payment holiday was that Mr E was letting the 
mortgaged property out without consent. Mr E has argued with some force that this 
wasnt true, but having looked at all the evidence from both sides, I cant fairly 
conclude that this was the case. Yes, TSB had previously granted a CTL, but that 
was in March 2016, and for one year only, thus it expired in March 2017. 
Mr E may not have received the correspondence TSB sent to the wrong address 
between April and September 2017, but that doesnt mean he wouldnt or shouldnt 
have known the CTL had expired in March 2017. It was set out in the original consent 
letter from March 2016, and the first warning letter that it was about to expire was 
sent to 92M. So Mr E didnt need to receive the wrongly addressed correspondence 
to know that his original CTL had expired. 
When we asked him about the occupancy status of the mortgaged property after 
March 2017, Mr E said it was his principal and main residence but also rented out 
when he was working away. But CTL doesnt allow that; a property that is the subject 
of a residential mortgage is either the borrowers main residence or it is let out to 
tenants, with the lenders consent. Its one or the other, it cant be both. Again, I refer 
to the original CTL letter from March 2016, which said:
Keeping us updated
If you move back into the property you must let us know immediately. Please 
call us on the number below to confirm any new correspondence address(es) 
for all named parties on the mortgage.
None of the evidence Ive been given to consider suggests that Mr E ever told TSB 
that he had re-occupied the mortgaged property after the first CTL expired in March 
2017. What he had done was notify TSB that he had moved from 92M to 10T. That 
being so, TSB had good reason to believe the mortgaged property was still tenanted 
after March 2017.Thats reinforced by Mr E having told us that he did have a tenant 
in the property for some of that time. Hes told us he had a tenant in the mortgaged 
property between July and December 2017; hes also supplied a copy of the tenancy 
agreement for that tenant. 
Overall, I cant fairly say TSB treated Mr E unfairly when it refused his request for a 
payment holiday in August 2017 on the grounds of him being in breach of his 
mortgage contract by having an unauthorised tenancy. By his own evidence, Mr E 
did have a tenant in the property, and he didnt have permission to do so, because 
his original CTL had expired in March of that year and had not been renewed.
I now turn to the request for a payment arrangement in February 2018. TSB has 
admitted having handled the phone call with Mr E on 3 February badly, so again I 
dont have to make a finding on that. Instead, I focus on the decision itself, not to 
agree a payment arrangement. Again, the ultimate sticking point was the CTL 
issue, just as it had been with the payment holiday request on August 2017. That 
means I have to apply the same test: that is, to assess whether TSB exercised its 
commercial judgement fairly in accordance with its lending policy, but without 
substituting my judgement in its place.
For much the same reasons I set out above, the wrongful addressing of CTL-related 
correspondence between April and September 2017 was a red herring that has no bearing on the outcome. Also, by now, TSB had sent Mr E a CTL pack that was 
correctly addressed; it had done that in October 2017. It had also followed that up 
with a correctly-addressed letter in November 2017 letting Mr E know the CTL 
application had been closed due to his non-response. 
What that also means is that, based on what TSB could reasonably conclude, the 
occupancy position in February 2018 was just as it had been in August 2017; that is; 
with the mortgaged property the subject of an unauthorised tenancy. Indeed, in that 
phone call of 3 February 2018, Mr E says the tenants will move out in July, if not 
before.  That actually contradicts what Mr E has recently told us; that is, that his 
tenants were in occupation until December 2017. But it is consistent with the tenancy 
agreement he sent us, which was a twelve-month agreement dated July 2017. 
So its quite clear the mortgaged property was let out without consent when Mr E 
spoke to TSB in February 2018, just as it had been when hed spoke to it in August 
2017. That means TSB was reasonably justified in declining to agree a payment 
arrangement, in much the same way it had been in August 2017 regarding the 
payment holiday, on the grounds of Mr E being in breach of his mortgage contract by 
having an unauthorised tenancy.
Theres something else about the phone conversation of 3 February 2018. Mr E has 
said he felt compelled to sell the mortgaged property because of TSBs premature 
decision to start legal action for possession. Looking at the timeline of events, that 
seems unlikely to me. TSB first told Mr E it might consider starting legal action in a 
letter dated 12 January 2018; it then formally notified him through its solicitors that it 
was starting legal action on 24 January 2018. 
The sale of a property typically takes a minimum of three months, from initial 
marketing to a sale completing. Yet, during the phone call of 3 February 2018, barely 
ten days after the solicitors letter, Mr E told TSB he had expected the house to have 
been sold and the mortgage repaid completely, by February. If that was Mr Es 
expectation, Id struggle to conclude he only decided to sell once TSB had told him of 
the potential threat of legal action. It seems much more likely he had been trying to 
sell it earlier than that.
That brings me to the entries on Mr Es credit file. Lenders arent just permitted but 
required to record factually accurate information about borrowers payment behaviour 
with credit reference agencies. Overall, Im satisfied Mr E will have had been made 
aware of this before the events giving rise to the complaint. The requirement to 
record payment data with credit reference agencies is incorporated into a mortgage 
contract.
Against that backdrop, I could only order TSB to amend or remove a disputed marker 
if it was factually incorrect or, even if factually correct, arose from an error on TSBs 
part. Even then, I could only conclude that any adverse information that TSB had 
recorded unfairly was the cause of Mr Es difficulties in getting a new mortgage if it 
was the only adverse information on an otherwise clean credit file. 
Having looked at the transaction record, and compared it with the copy of his credit 
file that Mr E has provided, only the latter test has been met. The adverse information 
TSB recorded is the only adverse information on Mr Es credit file. But that adverse 
information hasnt been recorded unfairly or in error. 
Mr E didnt pay anything in August 2017 by agreement, but then only made up part of 
the missed payment in September 2017. Meanwhile, he made no payment at all in November 2017, December 2017, or January 2018. The entries on Mr Es credit file 
look to me to be consistent with that payment record. Those three missed payments 
have nothing to do with any shortcoming on TSBs part, so theres no grounds for me 
to say they should not have been reported, or should have been reported differently, 
on Mr Es credit file. 
Lastly, Mr E has said he was discriminated against by TSB on the basis of race. I 
must explain that I have no power to determine whether TSB has breached the 
provisions of the Equality Act 2010  only a court can decide this. Mr E hasnt 
provided any specific examples of incidents during which he believes he was being 
racially discriminated against; rather, Mr E has made a general complaint that TSB 
would have behaved differently towards him if he had been white.
But to allege discrimination, one needs to have more than a suspicion. All thats been 
shown here is that TSB wrongly addressed some CTL and complaint 
correspondence and acted precipitately in starting legal action; mistakes it has 
readily owned up to and for which it has compensated Mr E without having to be 
prompted by this service to do so.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the mistakes TSB made were motivated by racial 
bias, particularly as Mr E hasnt provided details of any specific, identifiable incident 
where he says he was discriminated against. I find it more likely that the mistakes 
TSB made were due to a combination of inefficiency (in respect of the 
correspondence address) and, in the case of the decision start legal action, poor 
judgement. 
Bank staff do make mistakes, just like anyone else in any other walk of life. But in all 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded TSB discriminated against Mr E due to his 
race. If Mr E disagrees with me, he is free to pursue his claim of racial discrimination 
against the bank in court.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from Mr Es submissions the intensity with 
which he has brought the complaint. He sees error or wrong-doing in almost 
everything the bank has done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as Mr E has been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that 
means stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is 
fair, reasonable and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also 
means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes 
up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
Mr E doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor 
TSB will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mr Es right to take legal action against TSB over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision. TSB accepted my 
provisional decision without further comment. Mr E replied, rejecting my provisional decision 
and saying, in summary:
Id focused on the racial element of the case and ignored the key issue that TSB had 
breached its regulatory requirement to treat customers fairly.Hed write to us again once hed received a response to a subject access request made 
to TSB for his personal data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions on the complaint. However, I will 
respond to Mr Es comments.
On Mr Es intention to obtain more information before making a further submission, I said in 
the provisional decision that were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on 
how we investigate a complaint. Its for me to assess the reliability of evidence, decide how 
much weight should be attached to it, and what conclusions can be drawn from it. When 
doing that, I dont just consider individual items in isolation. I consider everything together to 
form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
If the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or simply disputed, I reach my findings 
on what I consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats 
broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
Mr E has said hes waiting for the outcome of a subject access request for personal data 
before writing to us again; the presumption being that he will supply more evidence than he 
has already submitted for consideration. But its for me to decide if the information I already 
have  from both parties  is enough to allow me to decide a case fairly. If I am satisfied I 
have all I need to reach a fair conclusion (and I am in this case) then I wont keep a case 
open for an unspecified period at the behest of one of the parties. That would put me at risk 
of showing bias in favour of the party making the request.
On Mr Es accusation that I have ignored the treating customers fairly aspect of his 
complaint in favour of the racial aspect, quite the opposite is true. This is best illustrated by 
referring him to what I said in my provisional findings.
On the payment holiday request, I said:
Overall, I cant fairly say TSB treated Mr E unfairly when it refused his request 
for a payment holiday in August 2017 on the grounds of him being in breach of his 
mortgage contract by having an unauthorised tenancy. By his own evidence, Mr E 
did have a tenant in the property, and he didnt have permission to do so, because 
his original CTL had expired in March of that year and had not been renewed.
On the payment arrangement request, I said
That means I have to apply the same test: that is, to assess whether TSB 
exercised its commercial judgement fairly in accordance with its lending 
policy, but without substituting my judgement in its place.
On the credit file reporting, I said:
Having looked at the transaction record, and compared it with the copy of his credit 
file that Mr E has provided, only the latter test has been met. The adverse information 
TSB recorded is the only adverse information on Mr Es credit file. But that adverse 
information hasnt been recorded unfairly or in error.(My emphasis in all cases)
On all of the substantive issues Mr E complained about, the provisional conclusions I 
reached were based entirely on an assessment of whether or not TSB had treated Mr E 
fairly. It was only after I had set out those provisional conclusions that I then mentioned the 
racial element, and explained why I thought it more likely that on the matters TSB got wrong 
Mr E had suffered from inefficiency and poor judgement, rather than racism.
Mr E has given me no reason to change my mind on any of the provisional conclusions I 
reached.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman