DRN-3799206
The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF). 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In September 2021, Miss T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
SMF. The car was registered in April 2013, which means it was about eight years old and 
had travelled about 60,100 miles when it was supplied to Miss T. The cash price of the car 
was £5,589. 
Miss T confirmed to our investigator that she didnt pay a deposit; this is also confirmed on 
the sales invoice which shows that no deposit was paid on the agreement.
Miss T says that despite some repairs, her car has been experiences issues since it was 
supplied to her. Miss T says SMF confirmed the car was faulty when it was supplied to her 
and that the dealer would arrange to have it repaired. However, Miss T says the dealer 
wouldnt repair the car.
Miss T complained to SMF. They didnt provide Miss T with a final response, however in 
March 2022 they arranged for an independent inspection of the car which identified different 
issues including the following.
- The air intake pipe and air filter box were loose
- The service light was on
- There was a loud metallic tapping-type noise present which increased when the speed was 
increased
- The engine was operated to full operating temperatures; however, the heater output was 
found to be poor.
- The hand brake lever was found to have minimal reserve travel
- The right-hand headlight was not working
- The automatic gearbox was found to have a significant delay in upshift of ratios, and when 
it did upshift, it jerked and vibrated.
Within the conclusion of the inspection report it advised: the issues with the transmission, in 
our opinion, should be classed as premature wear and the sales should therefore be 
responsible for the investigation and rectification of the transmission on the grounds that the 
transmission was not in a durable condition at point of purchase.
In April 2022, Miss T brought her complaint to our service for investigation.  SMF made a 
further attempt at repair in July 2022 however Miss T said the car remained noisy, and 
problems persisted with the gearbox and air filters. Miss T says the whole situation has 
caused her a lot of stress and depression which has required medical attention and so she 
wanted to reject the car. 
SMF didnt provide their business file to us, but told our investigator they were happy for the 
case to be investigated with the information we had. Having considered all the information, 
our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld and recommended SMF 
do the following:
-End the agreement with nothing further to pay
-Collect the car at no further cost to Miss T.
-Refund payments from March 2022 until settlement and pay 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.
-Pay £500 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused due to the faulty goods
-Remove any adverse information from the customers credit file.
Miss T accepted our investigators view. SMF responded to ask for evidence of the faults but 
didnt respond when Miss T provided them with a further diagnostic and inspection report 
confirming the car needed urgent repairs.
So as SMF hasnt accepted the investigators view, the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In February 2023 I sent Miss T and SMF my provisional decision. I explained why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. My provisional decision said:
SMF have not provided a final response to Miss Ts complaint nor have they provided us 
with a case file, so the information weve received directly from them has been limited to 
some phone calls and emails. Miss T has supplied our service with most of the information 
and evidence used for our investigation. For example, Miss T has provided documentation 
from the point of sale, which gives details of the finance agreement taken out, the vehicle 
acquired, correspondence with SMF about the complaint and expert reports and diagnostics 
relating to the condition of the vehicle. So, whilst its preferrable to receive evidence and 
information from both parties; in the circumstances, Im satisfied that Ive been able to reach 
a fair outcome and decision based on the information we have. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. SMF is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that SMF supplied Miss T with a used car that had travelled around 
60,100 miles. This is detailed on the sales invoice provided to us by Miss T. With this in 
mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be 
less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be signs of wear 
and tear due to its usage. 
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from the independent inspection report which concluded the car had significant 
issues at the time of inspection and that the transmission was not in a durable condition at 
the point of purchase. Miss T also provided diagnostics detailing various repairs carried out a 
month after supply and a further diagnostic report in September 2022 detailing significant 
faults with the heating system.
Both parties are in agreement that the car is faulty and wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Miss T. SMF confirms this in an internal email dated 25 May 2022. And 
given the independent inspection report which advises the car was not in a durable condition 
when supplied, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Miss T. 
I acknowledge the car has been in for repairs since the inspection was carried out, but a 
recent diagnostic report arranged by Miss T confirms significant issues with the heating 
system. This is despite Miss T having previously complained about the heating in February 
2022, and having only travelled around 3,000 miles up to that point. So, in the 
circumstances, Ive focussed my decision on whether SMF have offered or provided Miss T 
with a suitable resolution to her complaint.
Following our investigators view, SMF requested that Miss T provide evidence of the current 
faults with the car. Miss T arranged a further diagnostic from a third-party garage which 
confirmed a number of issues with the car including a heating issue which they advised 
could destroy the engine. I note that Miss T complained about the heating issues prior to 
SMFs repair attempt in July 2022. Miss T confirmed to our investigator that in the 
circumstances she preferred to reject the car.
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform. The remedies include the right to repair, or a final right to reject the car if after 
one repair the goods do not conform to the contract.
However, the CRA also says:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer.
Given the time taken by SMF to address the issues and with the lack of information being 
provided by them, for example by not providing a final response following Miss Ts complaint 
or our investigators view, or no response to further diagnostics provided by Miss T in 
September 2022; and in consideration of the impact this situation continues to have on Miss 
T and her family, Im satisfied that this amounts to significant inconvenience. So, Im satisfied 
that a rejection of the car in the circumstances is the fairest resolution to Miss Ts complaint.
Our investigator made some recommendations for SMF to resolve Miss Ts complaint, which 
Ive set out above. In addition to those Ill be instructing SMF to refund to Miss T £80 for the 
cost of the diagnostics carried out in September 2022 as requested by SMF, which shows 
that some faults are still present. Ill also be instructing SMF to refund all monthly 
repayments made by Miss T from February 2022, which is when she raised the issue with 
the heating system which is still present on the car.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Miss T responded to say she agreed with my provisional decision. SMF responded to say 
that theyve tried to contact Miss T to carry out the instructions in my provisional decision. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
FINDINGS
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither party has disagreed with my 
provisional decision, or given me any reason to change it, I see no reason to depart from it.
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the 
reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss T. So, my final decision is the same. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove it from Miss Ts credit file
Collect the car at no further cost to Miss T
Refund to Miss T the monthly repayments made from February 2022 until settlement 
and pay 8% simple interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Reimburse £80 to Miss T for the cost of the diagnostic and vehicle inspection carried 
out in September 2022 and pay 8% yearly simple interest calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay £500 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused due to the faulty 
goods
If Specialist Motor Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give Miss T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman