DRN-4291019
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt uphold a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim 
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I dont think Halifax had sufficient information to demonstrate there had been a breach of 
contract that would enable them to uphold a claim under section 75.
While its clear the first repair didnt resolve all of the issues with the freezer it is not clear 
that the repair wasnt necessary, and it hasnt been possible for Mrs S to demonstrate that 
because the failed parts were taken away and the freezer is now fixed.
The invoice for the first repair explained, in a highlighted and prominent position, that there 
may be possible damage to other parts run for 48 hours. Its clear that further repairs were 
necessary, but that was in line with what Mrs S had been told and doesnt therefore suggest 
a breach of contract or a misrepresentation upon which a section 75 claim could succeed.
It may also have been possible to raise a chargeback claim but, for the same reasons, I 
dont think that could have succeeded.
I dont therefore think that Halifax were unreasonable to reject the section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman