DRN-4207991
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hasting Insurance Company Limited (Hastings) unfairly cancelled his
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M says Hastings cancelled his policy in September 2022. He says this was because
there were insufficient funds in his account, which meant his Direct Debit payment failed. He
says the time from the missed payment to the cancellation was 16 days. Mr M says he
received no phone call, text message or email. He says the two letters from Hastings were
seen late so there was very little time to respond.
In its complaint response Hastings says it emailed Mr M the day after his premium wasnt
paid by his bank. It says this was his chosen contact method. It also contacted him by post,
and via his online portal account at this time. It confirmed a £12 late payment fee had been
charged. It says it also told Mr M it would try and collect the payment again in seven days
time. And that the policy may be cancelled on 22 September 2022 if payment wasnt made.
Hastings says it contacted Mr M again by the same channels eight days after it first alerted
him to the failed payment. It advised the collection had failed again. It said it would try and
collect the money in five days time from the card it had on file. Hastings says it again
warned Mr M that his policy would be cancelled if payment wasnt made.
Hastings says a further email was sent on 21 September 2022 confirming cancellation at the
end of the following day, if payment wasnt made. No payment was received so the policy
was cancelled.
In its response Hastings says £485.64 is owing on the policy as a non-recoverable claim was
made in the current policy year. This means the full annual premium must be paid. Hastings
says this debt has now been passed on to a debt collection agency.
Mr M didnt think Hastings had treated him fairly, so he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. She says it wasnt fair for Hastings to cancel the
policy when it did. This is because Mr M had to pay the premium for the full year, without
receiving the benefit for the remaining term. She says this penalised Mr M with a missing
payment on his credit file as well as having to disclose the cancellation, which will increase
future premiums.
Our investigator says Hastings should remove any external cancellation markers, refund any
cancellation fees, and pay Mr M £223.70 in relation to the increased cost of his new
insurance policy.
Hastings didnt agree. It says it hadnt recorded a cancellation against Mr M and this isnt
something he needed to declare to other insurers. It says a cancellation would only be
recorded on an external data base with reference to fraud. Hastings says it hasnt recorded
the failed payment on Mr Ms credit file, although it says the debt collector may do. And says
it gave Mr M sufficient warning of the cancellation as well as the opportunity to agree a
payment plan regarding the outstanding debt.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a second provisional decision in May 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
I have reflected on what Mr M and Hasting have said. Having done so Ive now reconsidered
my original findings, and think a fair outcome is to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ms monthly payment failed to reach Hastings. It made contact to
ask for this payment to be made and explained the policy could be cancelled if this wasnt
done.
That said the time from Hastings first notifying Mr M of the failed payment to the policy being
cancelling was short. Only 16 days elapsed from it contacting him to it cancelling the policy.
Its Mr Ms responsibility to ensure payments are made under his agreement. But the
cancellation of an insurance policy, in response to non-payment, should be a last resort. Our
service takes the view that in these circumstances Mr M has failed to comply with the terms
of his finance agreement rather than his insurance policy. Given the short period from
notification to cancellation - it doesnt appear that cancellation of Mr Ms insurance policy
was treated as the last resort.
Hastingss policy terms allow it to cancel Mr Ms policy having given him seven days notice.
But, it must also ensure that it acts fairly and reasonably. Just because the terms of the
policy allow it to act as it did, doesnt mean it has acted fairly. Mr M had a claim recorded
against his policy. The terms dont allow a refund of a premium where a claim has been
made. So, this meant Mr M has had to pay for alternative cover, as his policy was cancelled,
and owed Hastings the remaining premium payments for the same policy year.
In these circumstances I dont think Hastings acted fairly when cancelling Mr Ms insurance
due to one missed payment. Particularly given the short timeframe from notification to
cancellation. As a result of the cancellation, Mr M says he pays £75.90 per month to his new
insurer. He was paying Hastings £53.54 per month, so this has cost him £22.36 more.
Hastings cancelled the policy after two months so this means Mr M will pay an additional
£223.60 over the same policy year. In these circumstances I think its fair that Hastings
refunds this amount to Mr M.
Hastings should also confirm that any amount owing on Mr Ms cancelled policy has been
cleared with nothing left to pay. This is so hes not paying twice for insurance over this
period, as a result of the unfair cancellation. Hastings should also refund any cancellation
fees Mr M has paid.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Hastings should:
pay Mr M £223.60 on provision of proof of the cost of his new insurance policy; and
confirm there is nothing owing on his cancelled account; and
refund any cancellation fees Mr M has paid.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. Hastings responded to say it disagreed with my provisional decision. It says it gave more 
notice than was required, under its policy terms, before cancelling Mr Ms policy. Hastings 
also says it tried to contact Mr M on four separate occasions without response. It says it 
handled this policy the same as it would for any other customer. 
Hastings says other decisions have been made by our service, relating to similar 
circumstances that are in its favour. In light of this it says it doesnt think it treated Mr M 
unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Hastings comments regarding the cancellation period. In my provisional 
decision I confirmed Mr Ms policy terms allowed Hastings to cancel his insurance within 
seven days. I also said that Hastings must treat Mr M fairly and reasonably. 
The approach taken by our service is that the cancellation of an insurance policy for non-
payment, should be a last resort. In my provisional decision I said Mr M had failed to comply 
with the terms of his finance agreement rather than his insurance policy. In these 
circumstances given the short period from notification to cancellation - it doesnt appear that 
cancellation of Mr Ms insurance policy was the last resort.
Ive thought about Hastings further comments. However, this doesnt persuade me that it 
treated Mr M fairly when cancelling his policy for non-payment in the timeframe discussed.
Ive read the published decisions Hastings say were found in its favour. These cases involve 
different circumstances. I dont think this shows my provisional decision should be changed.
In summary Im not persuaded by Hastings further comments that a change to my 
provisional decision is warranted. So, my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my second provisional decision Hastings Insurance 
Company Limited should:
pay Mr M £223.60 on provision of proof of the cost of his new insurance policy; and 
confirm there is nothing owing on his cancelled account; and
refund any cancellation fees Mr M has paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman