DRN-1599277
The complaint
Miss D is complaining that she thinks Speedloan Finance Limited significantly damaged the 
box of a watch she pawned with while it was in its possession.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss D pawned a watch at a Speedloan branch and in return entered into a 
fixed sum loan agreement. This loan was renewed in November 2018. In November 2019 
Speedloan returned the watch to Miss D by special delivery when the loan ended. Miss D 
subsequently complained that the box was damaged while in Speedloan's possession. And 
she wants Speedloan to replace it.
Speedloan says that it completed a checklist when Miss D first pawned the watch. And it 
said the checklist set out that, while the watch was in very good condition, the box was in 
poor condition. So Speedloan thinks that the box was damaged before it was pawned. It also 
said it bubble wrapped the box and watch before it sent them to Miss D.
Our investigator thought the checklist completed when the watch was pawned suggested 
that the box was in poor condition at the time. So he didn't think Speedloan had damaged it 
further.
Miss D didn't agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
Miss D says that Speedloan significantly damaged the box that contained her watch. She 
says that it was in excellent condition when she pawned it, but she says it was significantly 
damaged when it was returned to her  with the sides of the box ripped. And she's provided 
photos to show the state the box was in when it was returned to her.
I've taken Miss D's comments into account, but I think the checklist completed in May 2018 
is likely to be a fair reflection of the condition of the goods when she first pawned them. And 
this says that the condition of the box was poor.
I note Miss D disputes the box was in poor condition when she pawned the watch. But I'm 
conscious that Miss D had bought it second hand in 2013. So it wasn't new then and I think 
it's likely it would have further suffered a reasonable degree of wear and tear to it before it 
was pawned. Ultimately I haven't seen anything to say that this checklist wasn't a fair 
reflection of the watch's box at that time. So, on balance, I'm satisfied that the box was in a 
poor condition when Miss D gave it to Speedloan.The issue I have to decide is whether I think Speedloan has unfairly caused further damage 
to the box. But I don't think I've seen enough to support this. I'm conscious that it had the 
box for around 18 months, so it's possible further natural wear and tear may have occurred 
during that time. But Speedloan wouldn't be responsible for this. And, as I said, I'm satisfied 
that the box was in a poor condition when it was pawned. 
Ultimately, I haven't seen enough for me to say that Speedloan unfairly caused further 
damage to the box while it was in its possession. So, it follows, that I don't think it needs to 
replace it.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman