DRN-3193615
The complaint
Ms M and Mr M are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M and Mr M took out a travel insurance policy to cover a holiday planned for April 2020.
In March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and on
15 March 2020 the country Ms M and Mr M were due to visit closed resorts like the one
which Ms M and Mr M were intending to visit. The country also closed its borders shortly
afterwards. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO)
advised against all but essential travel abroad.
The accommodation Ms M and Mr M had booked cancelled their booking on 19 March 2020,
citing the closure of resorts and the borders due to the impact of the pandemic. The
restrictions on movement remained in place until Ms M and Mr Ms planned departure date.
Ms M claimed on their policy and the claim was declined on the basis it wasnt covered
under the policy. Ms M said the policy had been mis-sold to her and made a complaint.
Ageas said that it had fairly declined the claim.
Ms M made a complaint to our service. Our investigator explained that another business was
responsible for the sale of the policy and Ms M clarified that she remained unhappy with the
decision to decline the claim. Our investigator therefore looked into the decision to decline
the claim and upheld the complaint. He thought that it wasnt fair that Ms M and Mr Ms claim
was declined as she wasnt covered if she travelled against FCDO advice, but also wasnt
covered if she cancelled.
Ms M accepted the investigators findings but Ageas asked an ombudsman to review the
complaint. They reiterated that there wasnt an insured event under the policy terms and
conditions.
In November 2021 I issued a provisional decision explained that I wasnt intending to uphold 
the complaint. In summary I said: 
Ms M and Mr Ms trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. This means that their claim wasnt covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an 
exclusion for claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here as I think there were other 
relevant exclusions in the policy terms and conditions.
The policy excluded claims arising from the prohibitive regulations by the government 
of any country. Ms M and Mr Ms trip was cancelled on or after 15 March 2020 which 
was the date that the country they were due to visit had closed resorts and imposed 
restrictions commonly referred to as lockdown. The country closed its border and 
the restrictions remained in place until Ms M and Mr Ms planned departure date. So I 
l thought it was likely that the exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations would apply 
to the circumstances of their claim. 
There were no reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Ageas to accept the 
claim. 
I didnt receive a response to my provisional decision from Ageas or Ms M and Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further comments theres no reason for me to reach a different 
conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional decision. I dont think Ageas did decline 
the claim unfairly for the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman