DRN-4210047
The complaint
Ms S says Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as BetterBorrow, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms S took out a 36-month instalment loan for £3,000 on 16 March 2022. The monthly
repayments were £123.85 and the total repayable was £4,458.80.
Ms S says it was clear she was not managing her finances well with missed payments and
credit cards at their limits so she should not have been given this loan.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ss complaint. She said BetterBorrows proportionate
checks did not show any signs the loan might not be affordable.
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me.
I reached a different decision to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An extract 
follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any comments by 
26 June 2023. 
Extract from my provisional decision
I have reviewed the checks that BetterBorrow carried out prior to lending to Ms S. It asked
about her income and employment status. It checked her declared income using an external
verification tool. It asked about her residential status and housing cost. It used 50% of the
mortgage value it could see from its credit check. It used national statistics to estimate
Ms Ss living costs. It calculated her monthly credit commitments from its credit check. It
added a buffer for unexpected expenses and from these checks combined, it concluded
Ms S could afford this loan.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont currently think it made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
BetterBorrows affordability assessment used the following monthly figures for Ms S - income
of £2,641; housing costs of £1,066, living costs of £629; existing credit commitments of £551
with an expenses buffer of £158. But I dont think the credit commitments were calculated
correctly. Ms S had credit card limits of £5,850 and we would expect a lender to take into
account a sustainable repayment (so 5%) of that full limit. This means Ms Ss existing credit
commitments were £292.50 on cards plus £395 on loans  so £687.50. This raises two
concerns for me: firstly using BetterBorrows methodology of adding a £158 buffer this would
have meant Ms S did not have the disposable income to cover this loan. Even with a much
lower buffer of say £50 Ms S would only be left with around £85 disposable income each
month and I dont think this would be sustainable give the three-year loan term.
Secondly giving this loan would have meant Ms S could have needed to spend 30% of her
income on credit each month. This is a significant amount and such a level can be an
indicator of future financial difficulties. Plus, Ms S already had an overdraft of £2,877 and the
above assessment does not provide for any repayment of this debt - and it ought to. Ms Ss
reliance on this facility should also have highlighted to BetterBorrow that it was likely she
would be borrowing to repay its loan by using her overdrawn current account(s) for
repayments.
For the reasons set out above, I dont think BetterBorrow should have lent to Ms S based on
the results of its checks.
I then set out what BetterBorrow would need to do if I upheld the complaint.
Ms S did not respond to my provisional decision. 
BetterBorrow replied saying it disagreed that an applicants total credit limit needed to be 
considered and it uses a repayment value of 3.7% of outstanding balance as provided by 
one of the credit reference agencies. And if it took into account paying down the overdraft 
this could be estimated at around £106 per month - which falls within the disposable income 
amount it had already calculated without affecting the buffer it had already included.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
BetterBorrow challenged some of the findings in my provisional decision as set out above. 
However, I am not persuaded in the circumstances of this case that it is unfair or 
unreasonable to consider the cost to Ms S of sustainably repaying the total credit lines she 
had available to her at the time she applied for this loan.  
I say this as there were already some signs of financial pressure with an overdraft of £2,877, 
which appears to be unauthorised borrowing as her limit was £0. And so in this case it was 
feasible Ms S could use that available credit in the short-term.  And we apply a 5% 
repayment to allow us to understand the cost of the card(s) being repaid in a reasonable 
time frame. This means I remain of the view that I dont think Ms S had the disposable 
income available for the loan to be sustainable over three years.
I would add that even if I concluded only the cost of repaying the outstanding credit card 
balances should be taken into account, that would not change my overall conclusion here. 
This is because, as I said previously, giving this loan would have meant Ms S could have 
needed to spend 30% of her income on credit each month. This is a significant amount and 
such a level can be an indicator of future financial difficulties. BetterBorrow needed to 
consider and respond to such information, not just look at the pounds and pence 
affordability. 
As well as indicating likely financial pressure, Ms Ss reliance on an overdraft facility should 
have highlighted to BetterBorrow that it was most likely she would be borrowing to repay its 
loan by using her overdrawn current account(s) to make its repayments  something it was 
obliged to check was not the case. So, in the round, I think there were sufficient signs that 
BetterBorrow ought to have realised there was a risk this loan would not be sustainably 
affordable for Ms S. 
It follows I find BetterBorrow was wrong to lend to Ms S. Putting things right
Ms S has had the benefit of the of the loan so its fair that she should repay this money. But
she had paid interest and charges on a loan that should not have been given to her and this
is unfair. 
So BetterBorrow should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms S as payments towards the capital amount.
If Ms S has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, BetterBorrow should agree an
affordable repayment plan with Ms S, treating her fairly and with forbearance if
appropriate.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Ms Ss credit file once any
outstanding capital balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BetterBorrow to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ss complaint. Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as BetterBorrow, must 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman