DRN-2185856
The complaint
Mr M and Ms T are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich wont pay 
them the balance of an old passbook account. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms T found an old Woolwich passbook which had last been updated in March 
2005 with a balance of £1,175.21. Mr M and Ms T asked Barclays to pay them the 
outstanding balance plus interest. Barclays searched their records but couldnt find any 
evidence of the account. They could only assume that the account was closed prior to 
Barclays taking over the accounts of Woolwich. 
Mr M and Ms T were unhappy with this so brought their complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into what happened. Whilst acknowledging Mr M and Ms Ts 
frustration, she was satisfied with the searches Barclays had done in trying to trace the 
account. Overall she thought Barclays had reasonably concluded, due to the lack of 
evidence in their searches, that the account was closed. Mr M and Ms T remained unhappy 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Frustratingly Barclays hasnt been able to show when the account was closed, or where the 
money went. This lack of information is understandable due to the time that has passed  
some 15 years  and that the account was originally held with Woolwich.
In this type of situation its my role to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities 
thinking about what is most likely to have happened.
Barclays searched their records and have been unable to find any information about the 
account. Had the account been active after the takeover of Woolwich I would expect there to 
be a record of the account being open. Had the account been closed to due to dormancy, I 
would also expect there to be a record. But records of neither situation exist. Because of this 
Barclays assume the account was closed before they took over Woolwich. 
Ive looked at the evidence of the searches done by Barclays; including the previous 
addresses for Mr M and Ms T. Having done so, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities 
that its a fair and reasonable assumption from Barclays that the account was most likely 
closed before they took over Woolwich.
It might be useful to note that a passbook isnt necessarily required to close an account. This 
can sometimes cause confusion when they are discovered years later, which appears to be 
what has happened here. I recognise what the terms and conditions say about the passbook 
needing to be produced to make transactions, but in practice customers sometimes lose 
passbooks, and are given replacements. In the same way, a bank would allow an account to 
be closed without the passbook as long as they are satisfied of the identity of the customer.
Due to the passage of time we can never be certain what happened to the money. This is 
clearly frustrating for Mr M and Ms T. The role of this service is to look at what checks 
Barclays has done to try and trace what happened. Im satisfied theyve done all the checks 
they can. This doesnt mean I know where the money went, and after 15 years we most 
likely never will. But Im satisfied Barclays has done all they can.
Having looked at everything Im satisfied Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably when 
searching their records to determine what happened to the account. I think its fair to 
assume, based on the evidence, that the account was closed before Barclays took over 
Woolwich. Its unfortunate, but not unexpected after 15 years, that Barclays have been 
unable to say where the money went, but I dont think theyve made any errors in their 
actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman