DRN-2774493
The complaint
Mr D complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited cancelled his car insurance policy, 
when he didnt provide the further documents theyd requested to verify his identity. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr D bought car insurance with Premier through a broker. He paid in full 
for a years insurance and received a welcome pack which included his policy documents. 
On 2 November 2020 he received a letter from the brokers, dated 16 October 2020, 
informing him that his policy had been cancelled. 
When he received this letter Mr D contacted the brokers and was told that theyd written to 
him, at the request of Premier, on 25 September 2020, to request documentation to verify 
his identity and validate his policy. He was asked to provide this in 14 days. When the 
requested documentation wasnt received Premier instructed the brokers to send Mr D a 
further letter, notifying him that his policy would be cancelled in seven days. Mr D says he 
didnt receive either of these letters. 
When speaking to the brokers Mr D also raised concerns about an enforced cancellation 
marker being placed on his account.
Mr D raised a complaint about the brokers which our service has dealt with separately. But 
the brokers told him that any complaint about the cancellation of his policy needed to be 
raised directly with Premier. Mr D contacted our service in December 2020 and a complaint 
was raised with Premier on his behalf. 
As part of his complaint Mr D said hed had car insurance for many years and had never 
before been asked to provide the documents Premier had requested to validate his policy. 
He wanted an explanation of why this had been required, as he believed it might be due to 
racial discrimination. 
Premier didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said that when his policy was incepted they 
carried out validation checks, as they do with all new policies. Part of those checks required 
them to validate the risk information hed provided as part of his application for cover. So 
they asked the brokers to request the following documents:
V5C documents for the insured vehicle.
Proof of address for the declared risk address.
DVLA licence summaries/driving records for both drivers on the policy.
They said this request was reasonable and they were entitled to make it. Mr D was given the 
14 days they always allow to provide these documents. And when they werent received, a 
7-day notice of cancellation was sent on 9 October 2020. When no response was received 
to this his policy was cancelled on 16 October 2020.
Mr D says he didnt receive either letter from his brokers. Premier said the brokers had 
provided copies and these showed theyd been sent to the correct address. As Mr D had 
selected post as his preferred method of contact, they said it was reasonable for the brokers 
to write to him. But he needed to take up with the brokers why they hadnt tried to contact 
him by an alternative method.
Premier told Mr D they were entitled to validate the risk details hed provided and refuted that 
this was based on any stereotype. 
Premier had recorded the cancellation of Mr Ds policy as enforced and this information 
would be available to other insurers. So hed be required to declare it when applying for 
insurance. But as a gesture of goodwill, they told him theyd amended their records, so the 
cancellation was no longer showing as enforced and he wouldnt have to declare it.
Mr D wasnt happy with Premiers response and complained to our service. He told us he 
believed Premier had asked for too much information. And he believed this could be racially 
motivated. He also questioned why they didnt ask for proof of his no claims bonus, which he 
felt was an important document.
Our investigator considered the case and said it was clear from the information Premier had 
provided that there was a lack of information on the identification database theyd used to 
link Mr D and his address. She said its standard practice, with every new policyholder, to 
check identification against the database and ask for more information in such cases. And 
this is exactly what Premier had done. 
She said all insurance companies must take identification checks seriously to stop fraudulent 
policies being set up, so she thought it was fair that Premier asked for this information. And 
she said that similar checks about the named driver were also part of the identification 
process.
Mr D told our investigator that there were often issues with another road being confused with 
his address. But she checked with Premier who confirmed that the database uses the 
information customers give when taking out their policies. And this isnt entered manually, its 
sent to the database automatically. So she was satisfied the correct address was used and 
the checks were carried out fairly.
Premier also confirmed that Mr D might have been able to get insurance from another
business immediately, because not all insurance companies use the same database. And 
another insurer might not require the same checks. But she felt the checks were fair and 
motivated by security rather than any racial discrimination.
Premier told our investigator that the information they asked Mr D to produce, his V5C, utility 
bills and driving licences, was the standard information they requested, and she thought this 
was reasonable to confirm his identity and verify his address. And she felt the standard use 
of the checks and the reasoning behind them should reassure Mr D.
Mr D said that Premier hadnt asked him for more information to confirm his no claims 
bonus. Premier said that this was a business decision. Our investigator accepted this and 
said this was their decision to make. But the same decision couldnt be applied to verifying 
identity as this related to security.
Regarding the cancellation of Mr Ds policy, our investigator said that as far as Premier were 
aware Mr D was given the 14 days to provide the requested documents. And although he 
said he didnt receive the requests, this wasnt something we could hold Premier responsible for. And as Premier didnt receive a reply by the deadline they set, our investigator said they 
had the right to cancel his policy. This was done for security reasons and she said they 
hadnt acted unfairly in doing so.
Mr D wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said that Premiers decision appeared to 
be based on an automated decision, which he had the right to challenge under his policy 
terms and conditions. He said he had the right to ask for the original information he provided 
to be run manually, to see if the same further information was still requested. And as hed 
had insurance with many different companies over the years, and never been asked for the 
information Premier had requested, he didnt accept that they were being completely 
transparent about their process.
So he also wanted them to review the results of the database search manually, to check 
whether there was a link between him and his address, rather than just relying on an 
automated decision.
Our investigator asked Premier if they could manually run these checks. Premier replied 
saying there was no automated decision to request further documents, or to cancel Mr Ds 
policy. They said they received a statement from the identification checking service and the 
decision to request further information, based on this, was made by one of their team. As 
was the decision to cancel his policy when the requested documents werent received.
Our investigator considered this further information and remained of the opinion that 
Premiers request for further information was fair.
Mr D didnt agree, and the case has come to me for a decision.
After our investigator provided her opinion Mr D raised some further points which he asked 
us to consider. 
He told us he made a DSAR request to Premier on 22 April 2021, he says the information he 
was provided with contains the following comment  
The issue was the insureds identification. For each new policyholder we wash their data 
against an i/d validation database. If there is a discrepancy between the information 
disclosed by the insured and the database we will ask for documentary evidence (v5, utility 
bills, bank statements, driving licences) to validate. That i/d validation process indicated a 
discrepancy with his information so we asked for validation documentation.
He believes theres either a problem with his identity, or there isnt. And if Premier hadnt 
received the documents required to validate his identity, they shouldnt have responded to 
his DSAR request. 
The information he was provided also contains a credit score. And he doesnt see how 
Premier could have obtained a credit score if they couldnt verify his identity. 
Our investigator raised these points with Premier who told us:-
Ordinarily, we would ask for a proof of identity document by way of photo driving licence or 
passport upon receipt of a DSAR. At the point of receiving the DSAR from Mr D, we had 
been in communication with him several times. In an attempt not to exacerbate the
situation, we took a view on this occasion and decided not to ask for the documents.
The credit score software and the anti-money-laundering (AML) and ID verification (IDV) 
software are two separate processes provided by two different providers. They look at different information and each provider may hold and have access to different information in 
order to perform these checks. For example, the credit score software will use previous 
address history whereas the AML and IDV uses only the address provided as part of the 
insurance application.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Individual insurers require different information from customers when setting up a new 
policy. What information they request to verify a customers identity is a business decision 
and not something wed interfere with, unless we considered the information requested was 
excessive or unreasonable.
In Mr Ds case the identification database Premier used couldnt find a link between him and 
the address hed provided. Im satisfied that this wasnt a case of a computer saying no. The 
database provided a statement, which was reviewed by one of Premiers team, and they 
asked the brokers to request further information. I dont think this was unreasonable, nor do I 
think the information requested - V5C for the insured vehicle, proof of address for the 
declared risk address and DVLA licence summaries/driving records for both drivers on the 
policy  was excessive.
Other insurers Mr D has insured with may have used a different database, or not have 
requested these documents, but I dont think the steps Premier took were unreasonable. 
They were entitled to follow their identification process for Mr D, as he was a new customer. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest their checks did anything other than follow their 
process. And Im satisfied these were done based on security rather than discrimination.
I can understand that Mr D was upset about the cancellation of his policy, particularly as he 
didnt receive the letters warning him about the cancellation. But Premier werent responsible 
for writing to Mr D about the cancellation of his policy. And as the information theyd 
requested to verify his identify wasnt provided, they were entitled under his policy terms and 
conditions to cancel his policy. 
The cancellation of Mr Ds policy was recorded by Premier as enforced. But as a gesture of 
goodwill theyve amended their records and removed this statement. This means Mr D wont 
have to declare this to other insurers. This isnt something they were required to do and it 
seems entirely reasonable.
When Mr D made his DSAR request to Premier theyve said theyd communicated with him 
several times. And while theyd normally ask for identification, they decided on this occasion 
not to, as this would have delayed responding to his request. Its the role of the Information 
Commissioner's Office, not our service, to deal with complaints about responses to DSAR 
requests. So Mr D can complain to them if hes unhappy about how Premier dealt with his 
DSAR request. But I dont think this changes that they were entitled to verify Mr Ds identify 
to validate his policy.
And I accept that obtaining a credit score for a new customer is a different process to 
verifying their identity. 
So I think Premier acted reasonably in requesting further documentation to verify Mr Ds 
policy, and in cancelling the policy when this wasnt provided. So I wont be asking then to do 
anything.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about 
Premier Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman