DRN-3768369
The complaint
Mr D complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) hasnt closed his account as it said it 
would in 2015. He also complains that it hasnt erased all the data it holds on him.
What happened
Mr D had some online trading accounts with IB. In 2015 these accounts were closed by IB. 
This was the subject of a complaint considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
previously. Mr D has recently complained as he is seeing a message which shows his 
account closure is pending and has a negative equity balance. He said this has caused 
him considerable stress as he is worried IB will chase him for inactivity fees accrued on that 
account.
Mr D has also asked IB to erase the data it holds on him. IB declined this on the basis the 
right to be forgotten isnt absolute and it is legally entitled to retain the information in line with 
its privacy policy. Mr D also complained about some aspects of customer service he 
received from IB.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said:
- She cant comment on the reasoning behind the account closure as this has already 
been considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
- Evidence IB provided shows Mr Ds accounts are closed with a zero balance  the 
negative equity caused by inactivity fees had been previously written off.
- Mr D hasnt provided evidence to show IB has failed in its customer service. 
- IB has reasonable grounds to retain Mr Ds data which is in line with the GDPR rules 
and IBs data retention and privacy policy.
Mr D disagreed. He asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. He made the 
following points:
- Mr D questions whether the Financial Ombudsman Service is able to make a finding 
on the GDPR matter.
- He was ignored when he requested to unlink his accounts and this was poor 
customer service  he provided evidence from 2015.
- He said the account closure is still showing as pending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for similar reasons. Im 
not upholding this complaint. Before I address the main complaint points I want to note that 
this service has already considered Mr Ds complaint about why his accounts were closed by 
IB in 2015 so I wont be commenting on that further  including who at IB corresponded with 
Mr D or made decisions in relation to that account closure.
Pending account closure
Mr D sent in something that suggests one of his accounts isnt closed but is pending closure 
due to a negative equity balance. IB has sent very clear documents which show that Mr Ds 
accounts are closed with zero balance. Whilst Im not sure what Mr D is seeing, or where he 
is able to see it, Im satisfied that his accounts are closed  which was confirmed to him in 
2015 - and the account balance was zero.  I hope this reassures Mr D that he doesnt owe IB 
any money in relation to this account.
Customer service
Mr Ds complaint about the customer service all appears to stem from unlinking accounts  
the ones which are now closed and have zero balance. Its not clear whether this specific 
point was dealt with in 2015, but in any event IB has confirmed that these accounts are 
closed and any inactivity fees that were outstanding were written off. Our Investigator 
explained this to Mr D before this complaint came to me, and Im satisfied Mr D hasnt lost 
out in any way here.
Mr Ds personal data
Mr D complained to this service about IB declining to erase all data it holds on him. He said 
this was in breach of GDPR. Mr D later questioned whether the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider this issue. Our Investigator explained that we can consider this point as 
it is ancillary to a regulated activity in this case. Id also note that it was Mr D that asked us to 
make a finding on this issue. Mr D has been told he can approach the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) if he feels IB has breached data protection laws. My role here 
is to determine whether IB acted fairly and reasonably when applying the regulations around 
data protection in this case.
IB has explained that the right to be forgotten isnt an absolute right. And it has explained its 
reasons for retaining information on Mr D. It has said that it decided not to allow Mr D to 
have open accounts with it. And since the request to have his data erased, Mr D has made 
numerous applications to open accounts with IB. 
Ive reviewed IBs data retention and privacy policies. These must take into account IBs 
legal, regulatory, and business requirements for holding on to Mr Ds data, as well as when it 
should be destroyed or deleted. The policy states:
Personal Information is retained for as long as necessary to meet legal, regulatory and 
business requirements. Retention periods may be extended if we are required to preserve 
your Personal Information in connection with litigation, investigations, and proceedings.
In this case, deleting Mr Ds data may prohibit IB from monitoring any new applications from 
Mr D. And given how many attempts Mr D has made to reopen old and open new accounts 
with it, I think its reasonable for IB to feel there is a viable risk that without keeping the 
information about his account history, Mr D could open an account when it has decided it 
doesnt want to have a business relationship with him. Im also satisfied given Mr Ds 
assertion that IB has broken regulatory rules and his contact with it over its conduct, that IB 
isnt acting unreasonably in declining his request for his data to be erased at this time as it 
may be needed in connection to its business, legal and regulatory requirements.
Mr D has asked whether this service supports IB placing a ban on him using its services. IB 
is entitled to decide who it enters into business with, and its not my role to tell it how to 
exercise its judgement in this regard. Im also conscious that any decision to close Mr Ds 
accounts has been dealt with by this service previously so I wont comment on that any 
further.
To summarise, whilst I understand Mr Ds frustration with IB, Ive not seen evidence to 
suggest it has done something wrong. So, Im not upholding the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman