DRN-4054437
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about the level of service received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited following a claim against their homecare insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C say British Gas failed to repair a boiler fault in 2020. They say multiple visits 
took place, parts replaced failed, and the issue remains today  leaving them with 
intermittent heating and hot water. They say theyve been treated poorly, appointments were 
broken, and theyve spent hours chasing a resolution. They think British Gas should replace 
the boiler under the policy as theyve failed to repair it. 
They also say theyre vulnerable which British Gas were aware of, and despite this, they felt 
they were treated as if they didnt matter. They say the level of service was poor which had a 
significant impact on them, and their gas usage increased as the result of British Gas failing 
to repair the fault. 
British Gas say theyve attended, repaired the boiler multiple times, and left it in working 
order. They accept parts failed, but this was outside their control, and when this happened, 
they reattended and carried out repairs. They also say they recommended the boiler be 
replaced due to its age, but this was refused by Mr C and Mrs C. They paid Mr C and Mrs C 
£100 compensation for the way things were handled, contributed to their additional gas 
usage, but didnt agree to replace the boiler under the policy. Mr C and Mrs C remained 
unhappy and approached our Service for an impartial review. 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 March 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Many points have been made in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each one 
individually. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
The policy 
Its designed to cover repairs to the central heating system, amongst other things, following a 
fault. The claim notes show British Gas have attended and carried out repairs since 2020, so 
Im satisfied British Gas acted in line with the policy. Mr C and Mrs C say, however, repairs 
often failed shortly after completion leading to further visits. They also say the heat 
exchanger, amongst other things, was replaced five times, but failed. They say British Gas 
failed to identify and resolve the fault which is why they continue to experience the 
intermittent fault today, but I dont agree and will explain why. 
Im satisfied British Gas carried out repairs, but they didnt prevent faults recurring because 
the boiler is at (or very close to) the end of its serviceable life. I say this because the boiler is 
old, several engineers have commented on the need for a replacement, so it seems most 
likely if there was a straightforward fault, it would have been fixed by now given the number 
of engineers who have inspected  and attempted to repair  the boiler. And some repairs 
have led to uninterrupted use for an extended period. This in my view suggests the repairs 
have worked, but the underlying condition of the boiler meant they didnt last as long as they 
ordinarily would have. Further, Mr C and Mrs C havent presented compelling evidence to 
show British Gas repairs were poor which led to the fault recurring  and its not as the 
result of the condition of the boiler, which I think is the root cause of the recurring issues 
theyre experiencing. 
The outstanding recurring fault 
Mrs C has been in contact with British Gas since our investigators view. British Gas say they 
would arrange a further visit to assess the fault. They say given the policy is designed to 
cover repairs until they can no longer be carried out, they will continue to offer repairs. I think 
thats reasonable. I say this because thats all the policy requires them to do here until a 
repair is no longer feasible. 
Whether British Gas should replace the boiler under the policy 
While Mr C and Mrs C say British Gas should replace the boiler under the policy, I dont 
consider I could fairly require them to do that. I say this because, as set out above, the boiler 
isnt presenting a recurring fault because of anything British Gas has  or hasnt  done. And 
the policy itself is very clear that British Gas will only replace a boiler if certain conditions are 
met. Here, they arent, namely because of the age of the boiler. 
In this situation, while its likely some of British Gas repairs could have been done better, 
and with a higher level of customer service, Im not satisfied they are at fault for the 
intermittent issues with the boiler. I think the long-term solution  British Gas has advised on 
several occasions which Mrs C was unhappy with  is a replacement boiler. But this isnt 
covered by the policy given the conditions havent been met as mentioned above. 
Additional gas usage 
Mr C and Mrs C say their boiler has taken far too much gas as the result of the intermittent 
fault. British Gas contributed £100 towards these costs previously, but Mr C and Mrs C think 
they should contribute further given theyve failed to repair the boiler. I dont consider 
requiring British Gas to make a further contribution in respect of these costs fair and 
reasonable. I say this because Im not satisfied British Gas are responsible for the recurring 
boiler issues, as mentioned above. 
Service issues 
Mr C and Mrs C had a terrible time of things which started shortly after making the claim  
experiencing broken appointments, engineers refusing to carry out repairs, and spending 
much of their time chasing for responses, amongst other things. Mrs C is disabled, her and 
Mr C have underlying health conditions, and despite British Gas being aware of this, they 
were made to feel as though they didnt matter. Mrs C thinks British Gas discriminated and 
took advantage of her because shes disabled. 
She says British Gas communicated with her as if she was stupid, ignored her, deliberately 
gave the wrong excess gas consumption amount to limit their liability, and didnt properly 
engage with their poor handling of things until our Service became involved, amongst other 
things. Here, British Gas accept they provided poor customer service. Mr C and Mrs C dont see it 
that way as mentioned above. Mrs C believe that how theyve been treated goes beyond 
poor customer service. I do think British Gas hasnt quite grasped how their actions have 
made Mr C and Mrs C feel. I say this because they were aware of Mr C and Mrs Cs health, 
and Mrs Cs disability. And despite this, they failed to provide Mr C and Mrs C with a 
reasonable level of customer service. So, given British Gas poor handling of matters, and 
the impact on Mr C and Mrs C, I currently intend on directing British Gas to pay them £400 
compensation in total for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Summary 
British Gas were required under the policy to attend and carry out repairs, and Im satisfied 
they fulfilled this. Im not satisfied British Gas are at fault for the intermittent issues with the 
boiler Mr C and Mrs C continue to face based on the evidence available. Rather, its most 
likely given the age of the boiler  that British Gas recommended be replaced  an 
underlying condition has resulted in a fault recurring. 
It's fairly common for an engineer to recommend a boiler be replaced if they believe  in their 
professional opinion  it has (or close to) reached the end of its serviceable life due to age 
and general wear and tear. A replacement boiler seems to be the long-term solution here  
but Mr C and Mrs C arent entitled to a replacement under the policy given the conditions 
havent been met. 
The service was poor overall, and I dont think British Gas took reasonable steps to 
recognise the impact their handling of matters had on Mr C and Mrs C. While our 
investigator recommended British Gas pay them a further £150, I intend on increasing this to 
£400 in total. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I intend on requiring British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr C and Mrs C £400 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
British Gas accepted my provisional decision. Mr C and Mrs C raised several points in 
response to my provisional decision for consideration, which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Boiler replacement under the policy 
Mr C and Mrs C responded to say on British Gas engineers system, it says  without 
condition  the boiler is insured for replacement. They also say British Gas failed to keep 
them updated with changes to policy terms over the years. I set out why Im not requiring 
British Gas to replace the boiler under the policy  thats because the age of Mr C and Mrs 
Cs boiler doesnt meet the specific policy criteria. For completeness, the policy says British 
Gas will only replace a boiler if they cannot repair it, and its less than seven years old, or 
between seven and ten years old, was installed by them, and has been continuously 
covered under either a homecare policy or warranty. So, I wont be requiring British Gas to 
replace it under the policy. British Gas recommended the boiler be replaced on several occasions. While I note Mrs Cs 
view that she thinks engineers are incentivised to sell boilers, as explained, its common for 
engineers to make this recommendation. Given the age of the boiler and intermittent issues 
over a period despite numerous repair attempts, I think recommendations to replace it were 
reasonable here. 
Mr C and Mrs C found a fault with the PCB board in the thermostat 
They say this is to be replaced, and since they found the fault and used a manual setting 
instead, theyve not had any interruption when using heating and hot water. Im pleased to 
hear this. They also provided an email from a third-party boiler system control company that 
said, broadly, if the fault persisted after resetting the thermostat, the fault could be due to the 
programming of the thermostat, which should be replaced. 
I dont find the comments from the third-party compelling supporting evidence to persuade 
me to agree British Gas repairs in the past were poor, incorrect, or unnecessary. I say this 
because I note after British Gas previous repairs the boiler system provided uninterrupted 
use for an extended period too. So, while Mr C and Mrs C seem to have identified an issue 
with the thermostat, Im not persuaded theyve demonstrated British Gas failed to respond to 
the faults in line with the policy  as thats all the policy required them to do here. 
Summary 
For the reasons outlined within my provisional decision and having carefully reviewed Mr C 
and Mrs Cs response to the same, Im not satisfied British Gas failed to fulfil their duty under 
the policy which was to attend and complete repairs. The policy doesnt entitle them to a 
boiler replacement, and Im not satisfied the evidence demonstrates British Gas previous 
repairs were poor, incorrect, or unnecessary. 
As mentioned above, the level of service provided to Mr C and Mrs C was poor, so I remain 
of the view £400 compensation is fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. So, Ill be 
directing British Gas to pay this to Mr C and Mrs C. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Mrs C. But my decision 
ends what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with British Gas  can do for them. 
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited must now pay Mr C and Mrs C £400 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and now require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
settle the complaint as set out under heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman