DRN-4171320
The complaint
X complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds actions during a visit to service his boiler 
and central heating system.
What happened
X has a HomeCare insurance policy underwritten by British Gas (BG) which covers his 
boiler, controls and central heating system. This includes cover for damage caused by 
certain insured events plus an annual service visit.
When the annual service was carried out in 2022, X says his spouse, who was at home at 
the time, asked the engineer to look at two radiators which appeared not to be fully working.
The engineer did so. And X says the engineer decided that the radiators needed to be bled. 
X says the engineer began this task, but didnt complete it, saying that he didnt have the 
time to do so. He left Xs spouse with instructions that the bleeding should be completed.
X attempted to bleed the radiators. He says that in doing so, he damaged the valves screw 
thread. This caused a leak of water which went through the carpet and caused damage in a 
room below. X has had the damage repaired, at a total cost of just over £1,500. 
X complained to BG. He said the engineer should have finished bleeding the radiators, 
under the terms of the policy. And he said the engineers failure to do so led to the damage, 
which BG should therefore cover.
BG didnt uphold Xs complaint, so he brought it to us. Our investigator looked into it and 
didnt think BG should be held responsible for the damage or be required to pay for it to be 
repaired.
X disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its reasonably clear in this case that X was entitled to think BG would attend to his radiators 
during the service visit given that his spouse clearly told BGs engineer that the radiators 
werent working properly or fully.
BGs engineer didnt make any notes on the visit record relating to the radiators. He simply 
recorded the main purpose of the visit  saying that the boiler was functioning, though 
reasonably old.
Xs spouse made what X says are contemporaneous notes on the documentation provided 
to her by BG. These notes indicate she did report the issue with the radiators to the engineer 
- and that he attempted to fix the problem but left before the work was complete due to time 
pressure.
Ive no reasonable grounds to doubt Xs version of what happened during the visit. And Ive 
no doubt he later attempted to bleed the radiators because the BG engineer had said thats 
what needed to be done.
From what BG have told us, theyd expect their engineer to address any issues with the 
radiators reported to them during the service visit. So, in principle, the engineer ought to 
have dealt with this particular problem during his visit.
It becomes less clear why he didnt do so when I consider Xs spouses notes, which also 
say that the engineer said the problem might relate to the water supply from a tank in Xs 
loft. Xs spouses notes also say she refused to allow the engineer to enter the loft.
However, Im satisfied the engineer then attempted to bleed the radiators but didnt finish the 
job. It seems Xs spouse didnt object to the engineer leaving at the time. And it seems X 
didnt object because he then set about the task himself, rather than ask BG to come back 
and complete it.
I assume X and his spouse took that view at the time because bleeding radiators is a very 
simple task, which would usually be completed without any problem.
Leaving aside my assumptions about their reasons for doing so, X and his spouse clearly 
decided that it wasnt unreasonable at that point for them to attempt to bleed the radiators 
themselves.
It appears that when X undertook the task, he either, to use his own words, damaged the 
screw thread himself or exposed the fact that it was already damaged or faulty (pre-existing 
issues like this arent covered under the policy terms). And/or he failed to take pre-emptive 
precautions against a leak or failed to monitor the situation after hed carried out the task.
It's a fundamental principle in insurance that when damage or loss occurs, the policyholder 
is obliged to take all reasonable steps to mitigate or minimise that damage or loss. And I 
think that principle would apply in these circumstances too.
In summary then, Im satisfied BGs engineer was obliged, under the policys terms and 
conditions, to fix the issue with the radiators. However, I cant reasonably conclude that BG 
should accept liability for the subsequent damage to Xs property. 
X appears to have caused the damage himself when he willingly took on a task which had 
been left to him by the engineer. Even if that task was left to X inappropriately, I cant 
reasonably hold BG responsible for the subsequent damage. There seems to have been at 
least a tacit agreement that X would bleed the radiators  and in doing so, he caused the 
damage. 
In other words, theres a causal thread which runs from the engineers decision to leave 
without completing the task to the subsequent damage. But the damage wasnt inevitable at 
the point the engineer left the property, there were a series of further contributory causes, all 
of which were necessary if the damage were to occur and none of which were BGs doing or 
BGs responsibility.
I note that X may be able to make a claim for the repair costs through his home insurance 
and I believe thats the appropriate route for him to follow now. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Xs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman