DRN-3013292
The complaint
Miss F complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited declined to fund 
the cost of a legal action against an organisation shed worked for. Shes also unhappy that it 
wont reimburse the cost of a legal opinion she sought from a barrister at its instruction. 
What happened
In September 2020, Miss F contacted DAS to enquire about cover for a multi-faceted dispute 
she was in with an organisation shed worked for. DAS passed the claim to a solicitors firm, 
who collated information from Miss F. In December 2020, they issued their advice that the 
various claims Miss F wanted to make didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success (a 
requirement for cover to be provided under the policy). 
DAS relied on this advice to decline Miss Fs claim, which led Miss F to complain. She felt 
she had a strong case. DAS issued a final response letter explaining that it was entitled to 
rely on the solicitors advice, as they were the legal experts. It said that if Miss F obtained a 
barristers opinion which stated her claim did have prospects of success greater than 51%, it 
would reinstate cover and reimburse the reasonable and necessary costs involved in getting 
the opinion. It felt that only a barristers opinion would outweigh the opinion it had relied on. 
Miss F decided to do this, and instructed a barrister. The barrister also reached the opinion 
that her claims didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. Miss F was unhappy with the 
scope of the barristers review and felt their advice was both incorrect and incomplete. She 
asked for reimbursement of the cost of the opinion from DAS, but DAS said it had only 
agreed to reimburse Miss F if the opinion was in her favour, which it wasnt. 
Miss F complained to the barristers chambers, who rejected most of the points shed raised, 
but accepted that the barrister failed to provide a detailed assessment of a particular aspect 
of the claim. Miss F began speaking to another lawyer and asked DAS to agree to fund the 
cost of a further opinion on her claims prospects of success. DAS declined. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In essence, she felt DAS 
was entitled to rely on the legal opinion it had obtained to decline Miss Fs claim. She felt it 
had been clear it would only pay for the barristers opinion if it said the claim had prospects 
of success greater than 51%. Miss F disagreed, so I need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Fs policy, like virtually all legal expenses insurance policies, requires a policyholders 
claim to have reasonable prospects of success (51% or more). We dont think this is unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt wish to bear the cost of 
a claim if theyd been told it was unlikely to succeed. An insurer cant be expected to either. 
Where an insurer has declined such a claim, its not our role to carry out our own review of 
the merits of the underlying claim. I appreciate Miss F feels strongly about the strengths of 
her claim. But my role is to decide whether her insurer has acted fairly. So long as its taken 
advice from a suitably qualified lawyer, its generally entitled to rely on that advice to decide 
whether to offer cover, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on mistakes of fact. 
In this case, DAS has relied on the opinion of a lead paralegal with suitable experience in the 
relevant area of law. Their work is supervised by a senior associate who also has suitable 
experience in the relevant area of law. The opinion sets out the relevant issues in dispute, 
and the authors views about whether, weighing up Miss Fs testimony and evidence against 
the relevant legislation and legal principles, there are prospects of success of 51% or above.
The opinion ends with the statement this does not mean that you have no prospects of 
success but that the prospects of your case succeeding do not, in my view, meet the 51% 
threshold which is required under the terms of your insurance policy with DAS. I havent 
found there was anything obviously wrong with the advice or that it was based on factual 
errors. Overall, Im satisfied DAS was entitled to rely on it. 
As such, I think it was reasonable for DAS to decline cover unless Miss F could provide a 
legal opinion that contradicted and outweighed the advice it had relied on (and therefore 
would likely need to come from a barrister). This is consistent with, and provided for, in the 
policy terms, which say:
"We may require you to get at your own expense, an opinion from an expert that we 
consider appropriate, on the merits of the claim or proceedings, or on a legal 
principle we will pay the cost of getting the opinion if the experts opinion indicates 
that it is more likely than not that you will recover damages (or obtain any other legal 
remedy that we have agreed to) or make a successful defence."
Im satisfied that in correspondence with Miss F, DAS made clear it would only reimburse 
her for the cost of the barristers opinion if it established her claim had reasonable prospects 
of success. Its final response letter said, You are, of course, entitled to obtain your own 
counsels opinion. If this states your claim does have prospects greater than 51% we will be 
happy to reinstate cover on your claim and reimburse you the reasonable and necessary 
costs involved in obtaining this opinion. {my emphasis}
A later piece of correspondence said, If the opinion remains negative then an option 
available to you is to get a barrister{s} opinion and we would reimburse pre agree{d} costs if 
that opinion is positive. {my emphasis}
I also note that the barrister clarified please note, this does not mean that I will provide a 
positive assessment in terms of your claims. The fee quoted is for the work to be done for 
providing a Merits Assessment, which could simply confirm what your Solicitors have already 
advised you in terms of their assessment of prospects of success.  
Bearing the above in mind, Im satisfied Miss F was made reasonably aware that the cost of 
the barristers opinion would only be reimbursed if the findings were that the claim enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success. As the barrister felt the claims didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success, I dont consider DAS is obliged to pay for their opinion. 
I note that Miss F has raised a number of concerns with the barristers opinion, but she 
instructed the barrister, not DAS. So, these are matters for her to take up with the barrister. 
I can see she has done that, and one particular point was upheld. But this doesnt serve as 
evidence that this aspect of her claim does enjoy reasonable prospects of success. In fact, 
the outcome of her complaint to the barristers chambers specifically says:Whilst I have noted that {DASs panel solicitors} felt that the victimisation claim was 
good enough to assess it at 50%, I am not saying or concluding that it had sufficient 
merit for insurance funding, I am simply concluding that the allegation that {barrister} 
failed to provide a detailed assessment of the victimisation is, on the assessment that 
I have read, sound and it should be upheld.
At this stage, I dont think DAS is obliged to cover the cost of Miss Fs legal representation, 
or refund the cost of the barristers opinion. If Miss F receives further advice that her claims 
do enjoy reasonable prospects of success, she should present that to DAS. But shell need 
to fund this in the first instance. Id expect DAS to consider things further if Miss F produces 
a favourable legal opinion. But as things stand, I dont think it needs to take further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman