DRN-3154489
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential Home Insurance 
(Prudential) has failed to fairly settle a claim made under his buildings and contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ds is represented by his daughter Ms C who has provided all submissions and 
information on this complaint. She has also explained legal advice has been taken during 
this process. However, for ease of reference Ill refer collectively to any actions or 
information provided on the complaint as provided by Mr D.
Mr Ds property was damaged by an escape of water in 2018 following a burst pipe. Mr D 
first complained to this service in 2019. At this point he was unhappy with the delays in how 
his claim for water damage was being progressed by Prudential and that it had decided to 
decline the claim and void the policy for alleged fraud.
We issued a final decision on the complaint explaining we didnt think it was fair the policy 
be voided and the ombudsman gave the following direction to Prudential/UKI to put things 
right:
Overturn the voidance of his policy and to reinstate it, removing any reference 
to that voidance from all internal and external databases
Pay Mr D a cash sum in respect of the repairs he has carried out/will carry out, if 
such a figure is agreed. Otherwise it should reconsider the cost of the claim so as 
to pay an appropriate amount for the repairs using Mr Ds contractors rates rather 
than its own contractors rates.
Pay Mr D a disturbance allowance of £2,000 and consider his claim for 
alternative accommodation and/or a disturbance allowance following his return 
to this country.
Pay Mr D a further £550 compensation in respect of the two figures Ive mentioned 
above.
Mr D doesnt think Prudential has acted fairly or followed the direction of the 
ombudsmans decision. Hes said its failed to settle the claim as directed and Prudential 
has failed to consider and pay the alternative accommodation costs hes incurred.
Mr D has provided a copy of all invoices received and proof of payment for the work 
carried out on his property to repair the damage from the escape of water. Prudential 
hasnt agreed to cover this total. The total balance of the invoices received is £92,624.97. 
Prudential has offered a settlement figure of £60,000.
Prudential feels this is a fair cost for the repair works carried out and in excess of what it 
says it would have cost its contractors to complete the work.
Mr D doesnt think Prudential has paid enough and has provided invoices and proof of 
payment for other works carried out on the property. Hes explained after the issues which 
proceeded this claim being accepted by Prudential, extra care was taken to ensure all work 
was invoiced separately with clear lines between the work needing to be completed as 
repair works and the additional work.
Prudential hasnt confirmed what it would be willing to consider as the alternative 
accommodation cost but has said it is not willing to do this until it is satisfied Mr D has 
returned to the property.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint and said he felt Prudential needed to do more 
to put things right. He explained he was satisfied the invoices provided demonstrated what
Mr D had paid to have the repair work in his property completed. And although this cost 
was higher than Prudential said it would have cost it, he felt it was fair it covered the total 
cost of this work. So he felt it needed to pay the total balance of the repair work cost 
£92,624.97 less the £60,000 paid to date.
He also felt Prudential needed to do more with the alternative accommodation costs 
claimed by Mr D. He didnt think it was fair to expect Mr D to prove hed returned to the 
property to claim this. The alternative accommodation he was claiming was for a set period 
not an indefinite one. It was clear the property had been inhabitable for some time while 
the repair works were needed and when Mr D was unable to live with either of his 
daughters, he needed to pay for alternative accommodation. So he felt it was fair that UKI 
paid the alternative accommodation costs in full.
Prudential disagreed with the assessment.
In response to the repair costs claimed it said it had concerns over the amount claimed in 
excess of its estimated repair costs. It had already paid £60,000 as its proposed 
settlement for this work and it still believed this to be a fair settlement. It questioned 
whether all of the work claimed for was carried out because of the escape of water 
damage and feels the extensive renovations to the property mean its difficult to be certain 
that uninsured work isnt being claimed for with the repair work.
It explained the invoices and proof of payment provided for the repair works appeared to 
show that during the time these were completed, no other payments were made to the 
builder. With the repair work being carried out with other renovations it expected to see 
other payments made during this time. It also raised questions about specific items 
claimed for within the repair work. Its biggest concern was a claim for strip out works and 
skip hire which totalled more than £15,000. It said this work had been completed by its 
contractor previously and felt any additional strip out works must relate to the work needed 
for the renovation work and not the repairs. As a result it doesnt think its fair to cover this 
cost.
With the alternative accommodation costs, it has still asked for proof of whether Mr D has 
returned home. Without this it doesnt believe its fair to pay the alternative 
accommodation. If Mr D had no intention of returning to the property after he first moved 
out it doesnt feel hes suffered an additional loss when not being able to move back in. As 
he would have needed to pay for his alternative accommodation if choosing to live 
somewhere else. It hasnt agreed to consider these costs or indicated if it was to, that it 
would pay for the total cost claimed. Its schedule of works for the repair works indicated a seven-week time frame to complete the works and it feels an allowance of three months is 
a fair amount of time when alternative accommodation would be needed.
Mr D accepted the view but is unhappy with the delays added by Prudential not agreeing 
to our investigators assessment. Hes asked that interest be added to the settlement 
amount for the repair works and that Prudential pay compensation for the delays added. 
Hes asked that this compensation be paid to his favoured charity.
As Prudential disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 October 2021 and explained that I planned on 
reaching a slightly different outcome to that of our investigator. 
I said the complaint is focused on whether the settlement Prudential has offered is fair and 
in considering this Id taken into account the previous decision issued which looked into the 
escape of water. 
As with our investigator, I didnt consider the escape of water or what happened previously 
in my provisional decision. But where relevant, I referred to things which may have 
happened previously and affect what I think Prudential should have known about the 
repairs to Mr Ds property. As Prudential was disputing both the amount of repair costs and 
to consider the alternative accommodation, I addressed these separately.
Ive included the main details of what I said previously below:
Repair costs
On 14 March 2019 Prudentials agent emailed its loss adjuster with a breakdown of what it 
felt the anticipated costs to complete the repairs for Mr Ds property. This breakdown 
totalled the costs at around £41,000 and was provided because of the potential of cash 
settlement being required with the following referenced:
After  our recent  site meeting  I met with Mrs P* to discuss  the works,  and it was clear  
that the family  are proposing  to carry  out a significant  amount  of private  works,  
including  removal  of walls  on the ground  floor,  developing  the garage  into a 
bedroom/bathroom  for Mr D*, renewing  the central  heating  system  and moving  the 
boiler  into (what  is now)  the garage.  She was trying  to ascertain  how it would  be 
possible  to carry  out this work  using  her own builder  whilst  the insurable  works  were  
being  carried  out.
I explained that this would not be practical, and suggested she consider taking a cash 
settlement. This seemed to be of interest to her, and she said she would discuss this option 
with her sister.
I think it is evidenced from this that Prudential was aware that additional work was being 
considered alongside the repair work with this claim from early in the claim process. Despite 
this its made reference to not having been aware of the renovations works until later down 
the line when its loss adjuster visited the property with Mr Ds daughter and the builder 
present.
As mentioned in the background of this complaint, we previously issued a decision where 
one of the directions given was for Prudential to pay Mr D for the repair work carried out.Prudential has two main concerns with the cost of the repair work which is impacting the 
settlement offered and has resulted in the suggested outcome not being accepted:
That the costs are significantly in excess of what Prudential believed the cost of 
the repair to be, with work included that it feels was previously completed;
That the cost of the additional work might be supplemented by the cost of 
these works with concerns pertinent to fraud being raised.
The direction although not specific to a total cost was specific on one thing. All work to 
complete the repairs would need to be paid at the contractors rate rather than Prudentials 
own rate. At this point, most of the work on the schedule provided and paid for by Mr D 
with his contractor is in line with what Prudential and its loss adjuster and contractor said 
needed completing to repair the damage. The only main exception to this at the moment is 
the strip out works claimed for.
Strip out works and skip hire
Prudential has provided the receipt for work its contractor completed on Mr Ds property 
before it stopped progressing the claim. This shows clearly that it carried out similar work 
to that claimed for by Mr D within his claimed repair works.
Mr D has disputed the adequacy of the strip out work previously completed. He provided 
photographs which he says show how these hadnt been finished properly. They show 
work still outstanding internally and a large amount of debris left outside the property.
Ive looked at these photos and agree they dont indicate the property was stripped back 
and ready for reinstatement work. Theres evidence of old plasterboard partially removed, 
partially cleared walls and a significant amount of building debris around the house.
Prudential hasnt been able to provide anything to show the property wasnt left in this 
condition after its contractors left when it stopped progressing the claim. So while I 
understand the concerns about the cost claimed for with this being done again, I do think 
some work was needed. The cost claimed is the cost of the work at the rate of Mr Ds 
contractor and so in line with the direction of the decision, I think Prudential should pay 
this cost.
Proof of repair costs
As suggested ahead of any work taking place on Mr Ds property, extensive renovations 
took place while the repair works were completed. These changes included the removal of 
internal walls to open up the kitchen and dining room into a kitchen diner. Removal of a 
chimney breast and the structural work required in conjunction with this. Ground floor 
extensions to the property roof. New windows were also fitted throughout.
Mr D has said care was taken to ensure there was no cross over between the insured 
works invoices and payments and what I refer to as the additional works, invoices and 
payments.
Im satisfied that the invoices supplied for the repair work have been paid as evidence of 
payment has been provided. But it is the proof of payment for the additional work which is 
causing concern to Prudential. With the nature of the repair works Prudential is 
questioning whether any payments for the repair could have been attributed to or 
subsidising the additional works. If this was the case it could be considered fraudulent.Weve been provided with a number of invoices for both sets of work as well as a 
statement from the builder who completed the work. He confirms all work was both 
invoiced and paid for separately and all payments have been made for the repair and 
additional works.
The cost of the additional work that has been shared with us totals just over £132,000. 
Mr D said the actual cost is likely higher than this but this is the cost hes able to 
demonstrate based on invoices retained. Hes also provided a number of bank statements 
from various accounts on which he is the sole or joint account holder to demonstrate 
payments made in line with the bulk of these invoices.
I havent seen proof of payment for all of the works listed as additional works, but have 
proof of payment for the vast majority. All the larger more significant payments have been 
demonstrated. It leaves around 12 invoices totalling roughly £20,000 that havent been 
evidenced as paid with bank statements. These all relate to payments which would have 
been made directly to the builder who completed the work. Although I havent seen proof of 
payment of the works here, I have a receipt for payment in the form of his statement. I see 
no reason the builder would not give an accurate statement about these payments, nor 
have I been given any reason to suggest this. So, Im satisfied the builder who completed 
the work has received this payment.
Fraud is a very serious allegation and while I understand the concerns Prudential has, Ive 
not seen anything to substantiate that Mr D is claiming for work completed which wasnt 
the repair work. There is evidence for the vast majority of all works being paid for with 
bank statements to confirm this and the contractor who completed all of the works has 
confirmed both in writing to this service and to the loss adjuster agent during the site visit 
that all works have been invoiced and paid for separately.
Im currently minded to agree with our investigator that it is fair to ask Prudential to pay the 
total amount claimed for the repair works - £92,624.97 less the £60,000 already paid.
However, as I expect Prudential will have further comments and it might be these are 
answered with bank statements/proof of payment for the items not currently provided. So I 
would be grateful if Mr D can supply proof of payment for the invoices/listed costs not 
currently provided. Ive been given no reason to suggest why this wouldnt be possible and 
it seems this will resolve this matter. Our investigator will provide a breakdown of the ones 
outstanding for ease of reference.
I understand that Mr D would like interest added to this payment due to the time its taken 
Prudential to settle this claim. And hed like a separate award for the impact of this delay. I 
dont think its fair to ask Prudential to pay interest on the full balance but I do think it 
needs to do more than it has.
The payment Prudential was directed to make under the previous decision was a cash 
settlement. Because Prudential failed to progress the claim when it was fair and 
reasonable to do so Mr D lost the ability for it to do the work  so the choice of deciding to 
take the cash settlement or let Prudential complete the work was missed. As a result he 
had no choice but to instruct and pay his builder privately at its rate. It is fair that these 
costs are covered when the delay in the claim being progressed caused them  hence the 
direction of the previous decision.
Prudential asked Mr D to confirm the cost of the repair works and offered a payment of
£60,000 in February 2021 with payment made soon after. It refused to cover the full cost 
of the repairs claimed.As Ive explained above, I think Mr D has demonstrated the cost hes claimed is fair and 
represents the cost of the work. Prudential has failed to pay the balance of this claim from 
date of settlement leaving Mr D out of pocket with a further £32,924.97 owed. I think its 
fair that it pays interest on this outstanding amount from the date it paid the £60,000 until 
the date it settles the remaining balance of the claim to compensate Mr D for being out of 
pocket for this period.
The interest award is intended to compensate Mr D for being out of pocket for longer than 
he should have been. However, I dont intend to make a separate award for distress or 
inconvenience. I appreciate that Mr D and his daughter have spent a great deal of time 
bringing this complaint and finding the information to support the claim. While I think 
Prudential should have paid the claim sooner, there is an expected level of inconvenience 
when bringing a complaint and distress associated with this. And each party must provide 
the evidence that they feel best supports their claim. I dont think the inconvenience here 
warrants a further award for the impact separately and so I dont intend to make this.
Alternative accommodation
Our investigator recommended that Prudential cover all alternative accommodation costs 
for Mr D from October 2019 until October 2020. This covers a one-year rental agreement 
he took out for this period. He also asked that it covers the cost of the additional council 
tax payments hes made.
I dont think its fair to expect that all of these costs are paid. And the previous decision 
only directed Prudential to consider the disturbance or alternative accommodation costs  
not settle them.
As Mr D had returned to the UK and was not living with family anymore but in his own 
accommodation I agree consideration should be given to this. But I dont think it follows that 
Prudential simply has to pay these if it doesnt meet the policy terms.
Prudential anticipated the repair works would have been completed by its contractors in 
about seven weeks. This would be the time to simply repair the property to its previous 
condition and obviously makes no allowance for the additional work that took place. 
Because of this it thinks an allowance of three months would have been enough to have all 
repair work completed.
Mr D hasnt said why he took out a lease for an entire year. It might be because of the 
extent of the additional work being completed in the property that he felt the house 
wouldnt be ready before this point. But the additional works and impact this had on the 
timeframe dont mean that Prudential are responsible for providing alternative 
accommodation at this point.
I agree with our investigator that Mr D being confirmed to have returned to the property or 
not should not impact the consideration of alternative accommodation costs. It was clear 
once the repair works were completed other work would stop the house being ready to be 
lived in. And peoples plans can and do change so even if after completing the work Mr D 
decided not to return, it doesnt take away from the fact that for three months, it is 
reasonable to believe he would need alternative accommodation as his house was not
habitable. He had no option to return at this point and so its fair Prudential consider the 
alternative it was likely the repair works would be completed.
Prudential and Mr D both initially responded to my assessment with acceptance in part  
although agreeing in part to different elements of the decision.Mr D accepted the payment of the £32,647.97 with interest added from the date of 
Prudentials initial settlement payment of £60,000. Although there was some disagreement 
about the time from which interest should be added and whether this is on the full amount of 
the claim value. It asked for clarity that the interest rate Prudential is being directed to pay is 
8% as prescribed by the courts.
Mr D didnt think it was necessary to provide the additional evidence of payment but agreed 
to do this. I thank him and his representatives for taking the time to provide the evidence of 
withdrawals to cover the outstanding invoices.
Mr D disagreed with the proposed award for the alternative accommodation costs. He 
stressed that despite the length of time the claim had been ongoing for, the claim was for 
only 12 months. When he returned to the UK in late 2019 he had nowhere to stay and the 
accommodation was taken on 18 October 2019 with a one-year tenancy agreement. This 
agreement ended on 19 October 2020 the same day that the decision was issued on the 
previous complaint considered by this service when Prudential (UKI) was directed to pay the 
claim. He feels the direction of this decision has not been complied with.
He feels the timeline provided by Prudential for the works to be completed is unrealistic. It 
makes no allowance for the time it took to organise the drying of the house and work it 
carried out before the claim declined. He also feels no allowance has been made for the 
significant impact of Covid-19 and the delays this caused the building trade from early 2020 
onwards.
Overall hes asked that the alternative accommodation costs be reconsidered.
Prudential initially said it accepts the decision to pay the outstanding amount on the claim 
and to cover three months alternative accommodation costs. But still doesnt think it should 
pay interest on the remainder of the claim. It has said that Mr D was asked to provide 
evidence to support the payments a number of times and it was his failure to do this which 
resulted in it paying the total balance claimed for. Its asked that I reconsider the interest 
award.
Both Prudential and Mr D asked to see the evidence provided by each other in response to 
the provisional decision. I allowed an extra two weeks for each side to comment on this 
ahead of making my final decision. To avoid any further delays I reviewed the information 
during this time and let Prudential know that I was intending to change the recommendation 
with the alternative accommodation, reverting back to our investigators outcome with this. 
Prudential said on reviewing the information provided by Mr D and evidence of additional 
payments made, it felt more concerns were raised. The payments demonstrated were cash 
withdrawals and not bank transfers and it questioned the accounts the money had been 
withdrawn from and how the dates could tally up with the outstanding invoices. It also 
questioned whether VAT was being applied to the payments if cash was paid.
It also asked whether Mr D had returned to his property and repeated that he is not entitled 
to claim alternative accommodation costs if he hasnt returned to the property. It said it 
believed it had made it clear that its concerns about the extensive renovations works being 
completed on the property alongside the repair works meant that it was only fair to make a 
contribution to the alternative accommodation costs and it shouldnt be asked to pay for 
these when other work is being completed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all new comments as well as the information already received on this 
complaint and Mr Ds previous complaint with this service. As the amount of the claim had 
been agreed with the initial responses I didnt intend to cover this off in any detail. However, 
Prudential has since questioned whether the new evidence of payments made gives 
confirmation of the missing amounts for the additional works.
I agree the cash withdrawals dont give the same certainty on the payments as the bank 
transfer receipts evidenced previously. And cash is withdrawn at different points to when 
invoices were presented. But I still consider the statement from the builder and confirmation 
that hes been paid for the work in full as proof of payment. And this is supported with the 
transfers evidenced as paid to him.
Im conscious that soon after the building work started on Mr Ds house there was national 
lockdowns as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and it would have meant getting cash out 
could have been difficult. And it might be that cash was taken out ahead of being needed 
which isnt uncommon. The total amount of the cash withdrawals exceeds the outstanding 
invoiced amounts and while I think bank transfers would have been clearer, It isnt 
unreasonable to believe that some cash payments were made to the builder.
All payments made directly to the builder via bank transfer included the amount for VAT and 
I see no reason to think this would not have been charged on the invoices paid in cash. 
With the above in mind, I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision 
on this element of the complaint. I think its fair and reasonable that Prudential pays the 
outstanding balance claimed for on this claim of £32,647.97. 
Interest award
I understand Prudential is frustrated as it feels it would have paid this claim sooner had it 
been provided with the invoices when asked. But I dont think its fair to depart from my 
planned direction to award interest on the additional £32,647.97. 
Mr D has also made comments on the amount of interest to be paid. He denies withholding 
any information and has said this was always available to be reviewed independently. Hes 
said if Prudential believe the repair works should have been completed within three months 
then the interest should be paid from the date when the work should have been completed. 
Its said using Prudentials assessment of three months starting from the point the property 
was certified dry, works should have been completed by 12 October 2018 and interest 
should be awarded from this point. They feel an amount of £20.30 per day from this point 
until the 4 February 2021 and £7.15 thereafter until date of settlement. I understand these 
comments are linked to the proposed award for the alternative accommodation but I dont 
think it would be right to award interest from this point. Not least because no payments had 
been made by Mr D from this date. 
Mr D didnt pay for all his building works on the day Prudential paid the £60,000 to him. He 
instead made these payments some time earlier, mainly through 2020 and had been out of 
pocket from each point a bill was paid. I understand Prudential had concerns it thought were 
relevant at this time relating to the validity of the claim but it doesnt take away from the fact 
that Mr D was increasing the amount he was out of pocket by throughout 2020  albeit in the 
knowledge at this point that Prudential may never accept the claim. However, In October 
2020 this service directed the claim to be accepted and to be paid at the level of the cost 
incurred by Mr D. So from this point onward Prudential needed to pay the claim.Mr D provided the details of what hed spent having the works completed. Ive explained why 
I think these costs are fair. So I think they should have been paid once presented to 
Prudential. There had already been a significant period when Mr D could have been said to 
be out of pocket but this relates to time considered under the previous decision and no 
award was made for interest here. But I think from the point Prudential was presented with 
the claim amount, it would have been fair to pay this in full. The costs of the repairs were 
evidenced and I think this should have been enough to allow it to pay the claim from the 
point it made payment. Due to this, I see no reason to depart from the direction to pay 
interest.
Interest is expected to be paid at 8% simple interest and if Prudential decides to deduct tax 
from this payment, it should provide a certificate of interest to Mr D upon request.
Alternative accommodation 
Ive considered the comments made by Mr D carefully in relation to the alternative 
accommodation. And reconsidered the previous decision and what was intended within this. 
Mr D feels it is the previous decision that makes the alternative accommodation 
straightforward as Prudential had been told to pay this previously. It says within the findings 
of the decision but not the direction on how to put things right, the following in relation to this:
As regards to alternative accommodation, I believe Mr D and Ms C have returned to the 
country from where they were living. If thats the case and Mr D is living in alternative 
accommodation, UKI should reconsider the cost of that up until the date the repairs are 
completed.
So the previous decision did explain it was fair to consider the cost of the accommodation up 
until the date the repairs were completed.  
While this is given as the direction, I have to also consider whether the time taken to 
complete the repairs is fair and reasonable  it would be unfair for the work to have never 
been completed and expect Prudential to cover these costs indefinitely. 
Mr D thinks Prudentials time frame is wholly unrealistic. He feels it fails to take account of 
several things including the impact of the pandemic. Hes said the repairs started at the 
property in mid-January 2020. Some additional work took place alongside this and the 
chimney breast and roof repairs were completed by 26 March 2020 when the first national 
lockdown was put into place. Once this happened the number of people on site was 
significantly reduced and only very limited repair works could be carried out. The remaining 
additional works for the extension were not started until September 2020 and had little 
impact on the repair work. And all repair work was completed on the property by November 
2020. 
Previously we had little information on the repair works and timings of these. Prudential 
didnt manage these carry out the work so it has to rely on the timeframes given by Mr D. 
The investigator who upheld the complaint did so with limited information and little 
explanation as to why the full 12 months alternative accommodation costs were fair and 
reasonable. There was instead focus on whether Mr D had returned to the property and why 
he didnt think this impacted the claim for alternative accommodation. Ive explained in my 
provisional decision why I dont think this is relevant. And why I think there is a valid claim for 
alternative accommodation regardless of whether Mr D has or hasnt returned to the 
property.Prudential when asked about the impact of Covid-19 believed the bulk of the work had been 
started and possibly completed ahead of this. So it didnt think any extra time was needed to 
be allowed for.
Having now considered everything again and the points raised by Mr D I dont think three 
months is a reasonable time to allow for the repair works to be completed. And I agree with 
the outcome reached by our investigator on the alternative accommodation costs.
I know Prudential will be disappointed by this and might feel this is unfair as some additional 
work was completed alongside the repair works. But I think considering the direction of the 
previous decision as well as the information presented by Mr D about the timeframes of the 
claim, its fair to say the work wasnt completed within three months and the date given for 
this completion was November 2020.  There is no evidence from Prudential to show this 
wasnt the case. The invoices provided support that there was a slow down in work between 
March and May/June 2020 as these dropped off and picked up again. And although 
Prudential may feel the timeline for completion was unrealistic I have to consider what the 
previous decision intended too as this links so closely with this element of the complaint 
now. 
I understand there is a significant difference in the anticipated timeframe for the repair work 
completion and what transpired on Mr Ds property. But I think there is fair explanation for 
this and the exceptional circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic will have likely impacted it 
too. 
The repair works hadnt started in October 2019 when Mr D returned to the UK and the lease 
was taken out. The invoices dates supplied previously and payment dates indicate work did 
start on the property around January 2020. This means there was three months alternative 
accommodation costs already incurred. I dont think this delay is unreasonable and it will 
always take some time to arrange building works on a property and find a start date that 
matches the contractors schedule.  Once started Covid-19 and national lockdowns plus 
trade and material shortages ensued and there was a slow down in the rate of work. Again, I 
dont think this is unreasonable.
I also have to consider the additional strip out work that needed completing on top of the 
repair works  although clearly started by Prudential and its contractors, I remain satisfied 
this was not completed in full and further time and expense was required to put this right 
ahead of any repair works. 
I understand Im departing from my provisional decision on this point. However, as I am now 
effectively endorsing the outcome of our investigator in full with the addition of the interest 
award, I see no reason to delay the decision any further. Mr D is elderly and to delay the 
outcome simply wouldnt be fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential 
Home Insurance to do the following:
Settle Mr Ds claim for the cost of his repair works to his property as set out at £92,624.97 
less the £60,000 already paid.
It should pay simple interest of 8% on the balance currently owed (£32,624.97) from 
the date it made the payment of £60,000 until date of final settlement.Pay the 12 months alternative accommodation costs claimed for by Mr D including the 
additional council tax payments. Interest should be added to this payment too, commencing 
from the payment date of the £60,000 until the date of final settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint against U K Insurance Limited trading as Prudential Home 
Insurance.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman