DRN-3189187
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) provided mis-
leading information about the true nature of an investment involving an exchange traded 
commodity (ETC). 
What happened
Mr B holds accounts with HL. He bought units in an ishares physical platinum ETC using 
HLs investment platform. 
On 3 May 2020, Mr B instructed HL to execute a stop loss order on his investment if the unit 
price fell below 800p (the actual price at the time was apparently around 881p). Whilst Mr B 
thought this was a cautious approach, he also thought it allowed plenty of scope within a 
market hed invested in before.
The following day, the unit price momentarily fell, having apparently started the day at 
around 890p. So, HL acted upon Mr Bs instruction to execute the stop loss order. It sold Mr 
Bs units at 718.53p, which it later said was within the permitted range. However, unit prices 
very quickly returned to levels similar to those seen earlier in the day. But, by that time, Mr B 
says hed already lost several thousands of pounds within a very short space of time. 
Mr B contacted HL to discuss what had happened. He says at this point he found out the 
true nature of the ETC. According to HLs notes, it told Mr B about the risks in setting a stop 
loss on an ETC like this. Specifically, only a couple of market makers determine the price 
and if one pulls their price, the overall price can change very quickly. According to what HL 
noted following contact from Mr B, Mr B thought HL should include an online warning when 
customers are considering instructing a stop loss in these kinds of circumstances. HL noted 
that it referred Mr B to its terms and conditions and information about limit orders and 
pointed out that Mr B had completed a complex investment questionnaire indicating he 
understood the risks associated with his investment. 
Mr B later made a formal complaint indicating that HL had been negligent in its actions. 
Amongst other things he suggested hed received conflicting information about how his 
investment tracked platinum prices. And he again said HL had taken no steps to warn 
investors of the risks in placing a stop loss order on this type of instrument. In other 
correspondence Mr B suggested that HLs systems should have a failsafe for this kind of 
investment. 
HL didnt think it had done anything wrong. Amongst other things, it:
said it executed the stop loss order correctly and in accordance with Mr Bs 
instructions. As the price spread on the London Stock Exchange was observed at 
between 697.5p and 888.75p, it executed Mr Bs order at 718.53p, which it felt 
represented the best possible price from the panel of market makers it dealt with;
acknowledged Mr B's frustration that the price spread had widened (which triggered 
the stop loss in the first place). HL also acknowledged that was a risk of using its stop 
loss service; 
said its terms of service make clear that factors such as market volatility can cause 
the pricing spread to widen and trigger an order and some stocks were more volatile 
than others; 
said the stop loss wasnt triggered because the price of platinum suddenly dipped, 
but because the price spread of any order-driven security such as this one can 
suddenly gap; 
said the fact sheet explains ETCs trade on exchanges like securities and are bought 
and sold at market prices which may be different to the net asset values of the 
ETCs. 
said the risks mentioned in the key investor information document (KID) dont 
specifically relate to the risk involved when setting a stop loss order, as thats an 
optional service. 
said its general terms and conditions for limit orders (published on its website) 
confirm some stocks are more volatile than others. You should bear this in mind 
when deciding how far away from the current share price to set your stop or limit 
price. We do not accept any liability for any loss or potential loss you may suffer if 
there is a delay in execution of a limit or stop loss order, a stop loss order is executed 
below the stock price or there is failure to execute a limit or stop loss order. 
Mr B didnt accept HLs explanation and felt that it had misunderstood his complaint. He felt 
that the potential to gap (and the accompanying big swings in price that are unrelated to 
the platinum market) should be mentioned in the KID. And whilst he felt that the risk rating of 
4 would be reasonable for a fund that tracked platinum prices, he didnt think it was 
reasonable for a fund whose price didnt and which fluctuated significantly. Nor did he think 
the risk rating of 4 reflected the daily volatility of the product. Mr B also pointed out that the 
information HL had quoted from the fact sheet wasnt included in the KID that he 
downloaded from its website. He questioned why there was such a disparity in information 
and said that if certain funds werent suited to having a stop loss order placed on them, the 
provider and their agent have a duty of care to inform the investor that this is the case. Mr B 
felt hed been mis-led by what was contained in the KID and indicated that he should have 
been told it was ill advised to place a stop loss on investments of this nature.
HL explained (amongst other things) that it wasnt responsible for the information contained 
within the KID or factsheet for this investment. Nor could it comment on Mr Bs concerns 
regarding the risk rating given to it. It explained that it encourages clients, before making 
investments, to read the outcome from its research and other information such as the KID 
and fact sheet. Prior to submitting an instruction, clients are expected to read HLs terms and 
conditions relating to its stop loss service, which it said explain (amongst other things) that if 
the bid price is lower than the stop loss price when it attempts to place the deal, it will 
continue to place it at the lower price. And those terms and conditions also state that in 
some cases a share price can gap. It said that if clients werent comfortable with the terms 
and conditions, they should refrain from using this aspect of the dealing service. In 
conclusion, HL also said that it doesnt comment on the likely potential for gapping of 
individual investments because gapping potentially exists for all investments. However, it 
was satisfied it clearly drew Mr B's attention to gapping and the consequences of this in its 
terms and conditions for it stop loss and limit order services. 
In another response HL explained that its role wasnt to give personalised investment advice 
nor exercise discretion or manage investments. It felt that was an important distinction and 
had a bearing on the level of service it provided and its obligations to Mr B. So, it was for Mr 
B to ensure he fully understood the features and risks before investing, with the prospectus 
(amongst other things) being suggested as a good source of information. HL felt it had given 
Mr B various pieces of information to assist with his decision making as well as making 
product information from the arranger available. 
Mr B complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and was satisfied 
that the risk warnings HL provided covered Mr Bs situation as an execution only client. He felt it gave Mr B clear and fair information about how the stop loss process worked so that he 
could make an informed decision. He also pointed out that HLs platform is set up in such a 
way that it will look for the price dropping below 800p and when that happens, the ETC 
would automatically have been sold. The investigator was satisfied that the KID also 
mentioned that the ETCs prospectus should be read in conjunction with the KID. Noting that 
Mr B had relied heavily on information in the KID, the investigator said it wasnt intended to 
be read in isolation. In conclusion, the investigator was satisfied that HL executed the stop 
loss order correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of its service. He didnt uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B didn't agree and made a number of detailed points in response. Those included: 
The KID is legally defined as a stand-alone document meaning it can be relied on in 
isolation; 
He didnt agree that HL wasn't responsible for the accuracy of KIDs made available 
and accessed on its website. He referred to guidance and regulations, which he said 
demonstrated that point. 
Our investigator considered and responded to Mr Bs comments and issued a second 
assessment. However, he didnt change his view overall. He concluded that Mr Bs financial 
loss was as a result of him executing the stop loss order. He said the price of the ETC 
moved within the limit set by Mr B and therefore HL executed it within the terms agreed.
Having made further detailed comments, Mr B asked an ombudsman to consider the matter 
afresh. So, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs made extensive comments to demonstrate why he believes HL was negligent in its 
duty of care towards him. I dont propose to include all of Mr Bs comments here although his 
strength of feeling is evident. Its clear though, that Mr B believes (amongst other things) that 
HL had a responsibility to give him clear information about the ETC and to warn him against 
placing a stop loss order on this type of investment. 
In order to address Mr Bs concerns, I think its helpful to consider the extent of HLs 
responsibilities in a situation such as this. 
What was HL required to do?
HLs website makes clear that its not there to give advice (unless sought from one of its 
specialist advisers). And, as Mr B invested in the ETC on an execution only basis, I 
wouldnt expect HL to give him advice. So, in these circumstances HL was there to act upon 
Mr Bs specific instructions, having satisfied itself (where necessary by asking him to fill in 
the relevant declarations) that he understood the risks associated with the relevant 
investments.
Thats not to say that HL doesnt have other obligations in these kinds of situations. The 
regulator expects, amongst other things, that businesses will give consumers like Mr B 
information that is clear, fair and not misleading. And, as Ive indicated, it would generally be 
expected to think about whether the consumer fully understands the features of the product 
theyre investing in and any associated risks.  
From what hes said, Mr B had some experience of ETCs having apparently invested in 
similar markets before. And whilst there seems to be some dispute about whether he 
actually filled in a sophisticated investment questionnaire before investing in this particular 
ETC (and Mr B disputed the risk rating given) from other things hes said, Mr B seems to accept that hes expected to read up about the investment product and its risks before 
investing. However, clearly, he doesnt think HL did enough to make the risks clear, both in 
terms of the investment product itself and the risks of placing a stop loss order on it. 
For instance, he said that having looked through HLs guide to ETCs, watched a video and 
examined the key information document (KID) he could find no information to indicate this 
product works in this extremely volatile way. Especially when the KID specifically stated 
that the product is directly related to the price of platinum. Mr B also added that the minute 
by minute volatility makes this product an entirely unsuitable one to place a stop loss order 
on. 
So, its against the backdrop above that Ive considered whether HL acted fairly and 
reasonably in Mr Bs case.
Did HL act in line with expectations in Mr Bs case?
As Ive indicated, even though HL wasnt advising Mr B, its still expected to refer him to 
relevant information about the nature of his investment and any product specific information 
that exists.
Looking at HLs website, I can see that under the heading Important investment notes it 
states:
We place investment instructions for you on an execution only basis. This means we dont 
give you advice on your investment decisions except where youve specifically engaged one 
of our Financial Advisers to do this. Youre responsible for making your own investment 
decisions. 
In the section headed Product Specific HL says the following about ETFs, ETCs and ETNs  
investing in these products may expose you to additional risk, for instance you may be at 
risk if the product's counterparties fail. It's important you understand the specific risks 
associated with your investment. It also includes a link to other information along with some 
information about the most popular ETFs.
So, I think this does show that HL set out some of the general risks associated with products 
like ETCs.
Mr B seems to think that HL should include more detailed information about product specific 
risks. Having thought about that, Im not inclined to agree, not least because HL will offer a 
range of different products through its platform. So, Im not persuaded it would be feasible 
for it to include the level of detail that Mr Bs perhaps expecting for each one of those 
products.
Typically, HL will refer its customers to product specific information produced by the 
provider. And thats important if its to satisfy its responsibilities to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information (over and above any information it produces itself).
In this case, Mr Bs clearly had access to product specific information. But hes taken issue 
with the accuracy of some of it, not least because of the way it describes tracking platinum 
prices and whether his investment is directly linked to the price of platinum or not. Its also 
clear that Mr B believes the KID is lacking information that can be found in other documents. 
And he thinks the KID should be capable of standing alone. 
Ive thought about all of this. And whilst I appreciate Mr Bs point, I dont think it would be fair, 
in these specific circumstances, to hold HL responsible for what was set out in the KID. 
Whilst Mr B is right to say that the regulator places certain obligations on manufacturers and 
distributors (as HL would be here), to my mind the intent was to put different responsibilities 
on different firms based on their role in the supply chain. In other words, I dont think the 
regulator expected all firms involved to be responsible for everything produced. Mr Bs referred to The Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products 
Regulation (PRIIPS) to support his position. Ive carefully considered the regulations that 
hes referred to and the part that talks about the information required in a KID specifically 
mentions what PRIIP manufacturers need to do. Then it goes on to talk about distributors 
in the sense of when and how they need to provide the information. So, in these particular 
circumstances, I think HLs responsibility extended to ensuring that Mr B had access to the 
KID before he invested and had enough information overall to understand the product. 
I do accept Mr Bs point that the KID is meant to act as a standalone document containing 
key facts. However, that doesnt mean it is the only relevant document an investor might 
need. Its standalone in the sense that it is required to, as an individual document, contain a 
prescribed set of information. In other words, the information that the regulations say has to 
be in a KID has to be in the document itself, and not contained in information that can be 
found elsewhere. Importantly, I think that also means it doesnt have to, nor do I think it 
would be reasonable to expect it to, cover every possible risk or scenario relating to a given 
investment in that document.
Mr B appears to have downloaded the KID from HLs website. Im satisfied therefore that HL 
made the KID available when and how it was supposed to. Im also satisfied that it provided 
other supplementary information about how its services worked and highlighted the 
particular risks of certain types of investment. For instance, I can see that the fact sheet 
associated with the ETC sets out other risks including ETCs will seek exposure to a limited 
number of market sectors. Compared to investments which spread investment risk more 
generally through a variety of sectors, price movements may have a greater effect on the 
overall value of the investment Precious metal prices are generally more volatile than most 
other asset classes, making investments riskier and more complex than other investments. 
ETCs trade on exchanges like securities and are bought and sold at market prices which 
may be different to the net asset values of the ETCs.
It seems to me though that the specific situation Mr B found himself in wasnt really because 
of any particular risk or volatility associated with this product, or precious metal ETCs as 
such. It was because of the widening of the bid offer spread and resultant execution of his 
trade at a price far away from the real market price. That risk was a consequence of the 
fact the ETC traded on an exchange and was subject to the whims of the bid and offers 
quoted by market participants. And I think HL gave a certain warning about this when it said 
ETCs trade on exchanges like securities. It also referred to the potential for consequential 
spread widening and what that could mean. In the Risks section of its order handling 
policy, HL states Some stocks occasionally display abnormally wide spreads. These may 
only last for a few seconds but at that point any affected orders could be executed. 
So, overall, I think the two key risks that materialised here  the nature of the exchange 
traded instruments, and what happens when spreads widen  were clearly and fairly 
communicated to Mr B. Given all of this, I therefore think HL fairly and reasonably ensured 
Mr B had the information he needed in order to understand that this situation was a 
possibility and make his investment decisions accordingly.
Whilst no doubt disappointing news for Mr B, based on all of the evidence Ive seen, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 Amanda Scott
Ombudsman