DRN-3608814
The complaint and what happened
Mr D complains Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse in excess of £100,000 he lost when 
he fell victim to an investment trading scam. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied Starling ought to have intervened 
when Mr D made his fifth payment towards the scam, as it was unusual and uncharacteristic 
for the account. She asked it to reimburse losses from that point. However, she also found 
that Mr D was partly responsible for his loss as he didnt carry out sufficient due diligence 
before deciding to invest and so reduced compensation by 20%. 
Mr D agreed the outcome, but Starling didnt. It said Mr D continued paying cryptocurrency 
exchanges following it issuing its final response about the scam, and so it doesnt believe an 
earlier intervention would have prevented the loss. It also doesnt agree it should pay interest 
at business account rates, as the business account which Mr D transferred money in from, 
before investing, is held with a different provider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background above, I have read and considered whats 
been provided. Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for the following 
reasons:
Mr D authorised the transactions. Whilst he didnt intend for the money to go to 
scammers, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. There doesnt appear to be any 
dispute hes been scammed  there was a warning about the trader published on 
the regulators website shortly after Mr D started making payments. 
Starling is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams. 
Mr D transferred money in from his business account (that hes a director of) before 
making the payments to a crypto-exchange. Prior to the first payment Mr D only used 
the account a couple of times a month and didnt make many payments out and 
when he did, they were for generally less than £1,000. Although the earlier payments 
of between £3,000 and £5,000 were an increase on the usual spending, I also agree 
such increases arent necessarily unusual, particularly when spaced out. However, 
when Mr D made the payment of £6,000 for crypto assets, it was the second 
substantial payment and one of four that day, to the same crypto-currency exchange. 
That was a significant departure from the previous operation of the account such that 
Starlings systems ought to have triggered an alert and the payments paused 
pending further intervention  such as making enquiries or giving a scam warning. 
Had Starling carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr D about the 
payments, I have no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. It 
could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as a 
far as is reasonably possible, they are dealing with a legitimate trader. And it could 
have drawn on its knowledge about the high-risk associated with trading with crypto-
assets, the potential for fraud and provided a scam warning. Had it done so, Im 
satisfied Mr D would have looked into the opportunity further and likely would have 
come across the regulators warning for himself. Im satisfied a warning from Starling 
would likely have exposed the scam and caused Mr D to stop investing, thereby 
preventing the further loss of just over £85,000. 
I am aware Mr D continued to pay the trader even after Starling had looked into the 
scam and declined reimbursement. And I think Starling makes a fair point when 
questioning whether an intervention from it would have stopped Mr D from making 
further payments. I have thought about this carefully. And whilst that might have been 
a lapse of judgment, I understand it was also an act of Mr D desperately trying to get 
his money back. That wasnt the situation when he was initially investing, and an 
intervention much earlier on would likely have meant he hadnt fallen so far under the 
scammers spell, such that a conversation with his trusted bank would have made the 
difference.   
I agree that Mr D is also partly responsible for his loss. Although having invested 
before, it doesnt appear he carried out much due diligence before deciding to part 
with his money, even when being persuaded to invest more and more. And given the 
substantial sum invested, its reasonable to expect independent research to be 
carried out, over and above just reading reviews. I agree a reduction of 20% is 
reasonable. 
Starling questions applying interest at the rate applicable to the business account Mr 
D transferred money in from before investing. But had it intervened as I find it ought 
to have, then its likely that money would have stayed in the business account.
  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I require Starling Bank Limited to reimburse 
Mr D £68,372.00 representing 80% of his losses from the fifth disputed payment. I also 
require it to add interest at the business account rate from the date of the payments to date 
of settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman