DRN-3158478
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge him for his packaged 
bank account, when hed previously been told that he would not be charged if he kept his 
account balance above a certain amount. Mr W is also unhappy that when he queried being 
charged, he was given incorrect information.
What happened
Mr W holds a fee-paying Gold account, a feature of the account meant that providing Mr W 
kept the balance of the account above a certain amount, he would not be charged the 
monthly Gold account fee. This feature of the account is known as a fee waiver.
I understand that Lloyds wrote to Mr W to say that it would be removing the fee-waiver from 
the Gold account fee in February 2020. But, Lloyds says it delayed charging Gold account 
holders until September 2020. A further letter was issued in July 2020 explaining this.
Mr W had queried these communications with Lloyds and he says he was told that his fee 
waiver would remain in place.
Mr W then complained to Lloyds as he was charged a fee. When Mr W queried this fee, he 
was told that the fee waiver had not been removed. 
In its response, to Mr Ws complaint Lloyds acknowledged that it had given Mr W wrong 
information. So, in light of the incorrect information that Mr W had been given, Lloyds paid 
Mr W £50 compensation, £12 to cover his call costs and refunded the account fees that he 
had been charged.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered what Mr W 
and Lloyds had said and provided and he felt that Lloyds need not do anything more to put 
matters right.
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, in terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that Lloyds is 
entitled to do. It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides 
and also which ones to discontinue. Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr W is dissatisfied 
by this, especially as he has been a customer of Lloyds for some time, I am unable to say 
that Lloyds decision to remove this feature of the Gold account is unreasonable.
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr W and Lloyds have provided, Lloyds did initially give Mr W 
reasonable notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver. That said it also gave Mr W conflicting 
information about the fee waiver being removed after this.
Having said that, I can see that in its final response letter, Lloyds did pay Mr W £50 due to 
the incorrect information it had previously given him. And it refunded Mr W the account fees 
that he paid. This letter also clarified to Mr W that he would be charged from that point if he 
chose to keep the Gold account.
Therefore, whilst I dont think Lloyds did initially give Mr W clear information about the 
account changes, I think what Lloyds did in its final response letter was enough to put 
matters right.
I understand that Mr W chose to keep the account after this point. However, Mr W was not 
obliged to keep the account and it was his choice to do so. So, I dont think it would be 
appropriate to ask Lloyds to pay Mr W any further account fees he mayve been charged 
since the final response letter.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I think that Lloyds did get things wrong and led Mr 
W to believe that hed still retain the fee-waiver, when that was not actually the case. But I 
also think what Lloyds did to put matters right was reasonable. I therefore dont require 
Lloyds to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman