DRN-4188510
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) didnt carry 
out appropriate due diligence before it lent to him. Mr B says that if Cashfloat had carried out 
further checks, it wouldve seen evidence of Mr Bs gambling.
  
What happened
Mr B was advanced one loan of £700 on 17 November 2022. Mr B was due to make six 
monthly repayments of £210.15. Mr B has had some problems repaying his loan and 
according to the latest information from Cashfloat an outstanding balance still remains due. 
Cashfloat wrote to Mr B in its final response letter and explained why it didnt consider an 
error had been made by providing the loan. Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold it because he 
concluded that Cashfloat had carried out proportionate checks - which showed the loan to be 
both affordable and sustainable for Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree with the findings. He said that he had a gambling addition and while his 
salary was checked by Cashfloat, it wasnt being paid into his bank as a measure to curb 
my addiction. He also said Cashfloat ought to reviewed his bank statements to check his 
spending habits before agreeing to lend to him. 
Later, Mr B provided copy bank statements for September, October and November 2022  
which showed not just the gambling, but also showed the salary wasnt being received by 
Mr B into that account either, as it was going into his partners account. 
No agreement could be reached and so the complaint has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that to 
help me decide this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs circumstances, but from the complaint form it does 
seem that things have improved for him, which I am glad to hear. 
When Mr B applied for the loan, Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could 
afford to pay back the amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in 
a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments, and Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Bs complaint and I would agree as there was only one loan. 
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Bs income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr B worked full time and received a monthly salary of £2,500. 
Cashfloat checked this income with Mr B and it received a copy of his payslip from 
October 2022. This payslip showed that Mr B received a salary of nearly £3,500 per month. 
Despite the payslip showing significantly more income than Mr B had declared, Cashfloat 
erred on the side of caution and used the lower sum of £2,500 for its affordability 
assessment. Mr B has also showed, through his bank statements, that while that may have 
been his income at the time, it wasnt being paid into his account  he said it was being paid 
into this partners account. 
I can see from the bank statements he has provided that no salary was received into his 
account, but Cashfloat didnt know this at the time. For a first loan, and with verifying 
Mr Bs income, I think Cashfloat did enough in relation to the income and I wouldnt have 
expected it to have known, or reasonably assumed that the salary Mr B was receiving wasnt 
being paid into his account. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, which Mr B declared to be £700 per 
month. Its worth saying here that Cashfloat says that it assessed Mr Bs monthly 
expenditure using what it calls trigger values  taken from a well-known debt charity and 
these values take account of an applicants job, location, homeowner status to name a few 
factors. 
Having used these trigger values, it estimated Mr Bs monthly outgoings were, at a 
maximum, likely to be £1,010 and, again to err on the side of caution, to that it added a 
further buffer of £300  these were the figures used for Cashfloats affordability assessment. Even using the larger monthly outgoings along with the buffer, there was still sufficient 
disposable income for Mr B to be able to afford the repayments for the loan. 
It doesnt appear that Cashfloat carried out a credit search before the loan was approved. 
But there was no regulatory requirement to do one. So, the fact no credit search was likely 
conducted isnt a reason to solely uphold the complaint.
The overall lending pattern such as the amount that was advanced wouldnt, in my view, 
have triggered further checks from Cashfloat or led it to conclude that the loan was 
unsustainable. 
Based on the checks that Cashfloat did do, Im satisfied these were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. So, although Mr B has helpfully provided copy bank statements 
for the months before the loan was approved, in this case, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Cashfloat to have considered them. 
As such, this also means that Cashfloat wouldnt have discovered Mr Bs gambling. There 
also isnt anything else in what Ive seen in the information that Cashfloat collected, to 
suggest that it ought to have reasonably known that Mr B was gambling either. And as 
Cashfloat wasnt aware (or ought to have been reasonably aware) of Mr Bs gambling I cant 
say that in the circumstances of this complaint that Cashfloat did anything wrong. 
Taking account of the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to have 
relied on the information Mr B provided to it and the results of its own checks. There also 
wasnt anything to suggest that Mr B was having either current financial difficulties or to 
indicate the loan repayment would be unsustainable for him. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mr Bs complaint, an outstanding balance 
remains due. I would remind Cashfloat of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr B fairly and with 
forbearance if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman