DRN-3718432
The complaint
Mr D complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) caused a delay in the 
transfer of AVCs from his employers pension scheme to Aviva. He says this caused him a 
financial loss in terms of lost investment opportunities. He is seeking compensation for this 
financial loss and for the distress and inconvenience this has caused him. 
What happened
On 24 September 2020, Mr D submitted an application to Aviva to transfer AVC funds from 
his employers pension scheme to Aviva. These AVCs were held by a third party I shall refer 
to as Company B.
On 28 September, Aviva wrote back to Mr D, informing him that the scheme he was 
transferring from would require its own discharge form (called an application to proceed 
form) to be completed. Aviva asked Mr D to contact Company B to request and complete the 
necessary paperwork. The email from Aviva contained the phrase:
Once you have completed your part of the relevant paperwork if you can please forward it to 
the below address we will complete our part and forward all necessary documents and our 
acceptance for funds to the ceding scheme.
On 5 October, Aviva received the application to proceed form from Mr D. Aviva subsequently 
wrote to Company B on 9 October requesting the transfer.
Company B responded to this request by informing Aviva on 19 October that it was unable to 
deal with the request, and that Aviva should instead deal with the scheme administrators, 
who I shall refer to as Company C. Aviva contacted Company C on 22 October requesting 
the transfer of benefits. This letter contained Avivas scheme and payment details. 
On 18 November, Company C emailed Mr D, informing him that some documentation was 
still required for the transfer to proceed. The outstanding documentation was referred to as:
Application to proceed form amended and signed by the member (Receiving scheme details 
need to be filled)
Mr D subsequently completed and sent the required documentation to Company C, who 
received it on 26 November. Company C then sent a request to Company B on 14 
December 2020, followed by a reminder on 6 January 2021. The AVC funds were received 
by Aviva on 26 January, confirmed by a settlement letter from Company B and confirming a 
transfer value of £15,292.55.
On 29 January, Aviva contacted Company B asking for confirmation of the ceding scheme 
type to complete the transfer. Subsequent requests were sent on 2 February and 4 February 
2021.
Aviva applied a management authorisation to apply the funds as an exception on 4 February 
2021.
The whole transfer took about four and half months.
Mr D complained to Aviva on 4 February 2021. Aviva investigated his complaint and 
subsequently rejected it, finding that its actions had not unduly delayed the transfer taking 
place.
Mr D was unhappy with this outcome, and the case was referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
After reviewing all the relevant information, our Investigator recommended that this 
complaint not be upheld. Mr D disagreed, so the case was passed to me to take a fresh look 
at the evidence and reach a decision.
On 26 August 2022, I issued a provisional decision outlining my assessment of this case and 
asked the parties for any comments they might have. Neither Mr D nor Aviva have provided 
me with any substantive responses to my provisional decision
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Essentially, Mr Ds complaint is that Aviva caused an unnecessary delay in the transfer of his 
pension plan. I have reviewed the evidence, and do not think that this is the case. Let me 
explain why.
Id like to first address the email that Mr D received from Aviva on 28 September, which 
asked him to obtain and complete his part of the necessary paperwork from the ceding 
scheme (Company B). Aviva stated that it would complete our part of the paperwork.
It seems reasonable to me that Mr D interpreted this to refer to the form he received from 
Company B and sent to Aviva on 5 October 2020. It also seems reasonable to me that he 
would interpret Avivas instruction to mean that Aviva would complete the section of the form 
relating to Avivas details as the scheme receiving the transfer. It also seems reasonable to 
me that Aviva should have looked at the form Mr D sent to them prior to sending it on to 
Company C. As Aviva did not see that Mr D had left a section blank (which I think would 
have been obvious to Aviva), it meant that Company C was required to contact Mr D to seek 
further information.
This did, of course, introduce an element of delay into the process, but I do not believe that 
this delay was material in the overall delay in the transfer of Mr Ds funds to Aviva.
To demonstrate this, Id like to refer to the timeline of this overall transfer.
On 24 September Mr D first contacted Aviva, who responded to him on the 28 September 
(two working days later). Mr D then contacted Company B, who supplied him with the 
necessary form which he partially completed and returned to Aviva on 5 October. Aviva then 
passed this form to Company B together with accompanying documentation on 9 October 
(four working days).
On the 19 October, (six working days later), Company B informed Aviva, that they should 
contact Company C, the trustees. Aviva did this on 22 October (three working days). Mr D was contacted by Company C to inform him that the form he had submitted was incomplete 
on the 18 November (19 working days later). Mr D completed the form and returned it to 
Company C on 26 November (five working days).
Company C wrote to Company B on 14 December (12 working days) requesting the transfer 
of funds to Aviva. Company C wrote again to Company B on 6 January 2021 to remind them 
of this (14 working days). Aviva received the funds on 26 January (14 working days). Aviva 
then wrote to Company C on the 29 January, 2 February and 4 February 2021, requesting a 
final piece of information to complete the transfer. On 4 February, despite having not 
received this information, Aviva applied an exceptional management decision to release the 
funds.
So, having looked at this timeline, it seems clear to me that the main elements of the delay in 
completing this transfer were outside Avivas control. Although Avivas original error in giving 
Mr D the impression that it would complete part of the form he was sent by Company B did 
cause a delay in the process, this delay was just the five working days it took Mr D to return 
the completed application to proceed form once Company C told him it hadnt been filled in 
correctly on 18 November. Given that the form wasnt actually with Aviva during those five 
days, and given the timeline outlined above which shows this didnt in any event represent a 
material delay to the overall transfer, I dont intend to ask Aviva to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman