DRN-3428079
The complaint
This complaint is about a commercial overdraft of just over £1.1m granted by Clydesdale 
Bank Plc to a business operated by Messrs W. The overdraft, which was secured by a first 
charge over Messrs Ws commercial assets, was for the acquisition of further commercial 
land. The gist of the complaint is that the lending was reckless and irresponsible because:
the decision to lend was taken too quickly;
Clydesdale didnt obtain enough information about Messrs Ws business plans for the 
acquisition; and
the lending was granted on a false premise that Messrs W would immediately sell on a 
portion of the newly-acquired land and reduce the debt.
Messrs W, who are represented here by Mr T, say Clydesdale subsequently called in the 
debt, forcing them to sell the property at a substantial loss. Theyre claiming that loss 
(around £350,0000) from Clydesdale in settlement of the complaint.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 28 March 2022, I set out my provisional conclusions 
on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from the provisional 
decision.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of 
documents. Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence 
are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by 
necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using 
my own words and rounding the figures involved.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, 
and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is 
consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in 
some instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
In addition, the details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence from 
our investigator, and both parties have a copy of this, so there is no need for me to 
repeat all the details here. Because our decisions are published, its important that I 
dont include any information that might result in Messrs W being identified. I will 
therefore keep my summary of the complaint quite brief.
Messrs W had been in business since the 1980s, and moved their banking to 
Clydesdale in the 1990s. I wont go into details about the nature of their occupation, 
as that is a potential identifier, but Im satisfied they were experienced at running their 
own commercial enterprise, in their chosen occupation, for many years before the 
event giving rise to this complaint. 
In June 2015, Messrs W approached their account manager at Clydesdale about 
raising money to buy some land. The banks immediate response was positive and 
they were encouraged to start the purchase process whilst the bank sorted out the 
formalities for the lending, including obtaining a full valuation of the proposed 
security. 
Messrs W already had a business overdraft with Clydesdale; what the bank agreed 
to do was set up a separate overdraft facility for the new lending. An initial facility 
letter was issued in July 2015, albeit not taken up. Another facility letter was issued in 
September 2015; the funds were drawn and the acquisition completed in October 
2015.  
The overdraft facility was initially for six months, but was renewed periodically. 
However, as time went on, Clydesdale began to express concern that the overdraft 
hadnt been reduced. It expressed those concerns in a letter (undated but by 
common consent most likely sent in August 2017) in which it set out its 
understanding of the original transaction. That was; that Messrs Ws intention had 
been to sell on a substantial portion of the land to a third party, and pay the sale 
proceeds in reduction of the overdraft. 
There then followed a long and involved dialogue between the parties, which 
culminated in Messrs W selling the land, in 2020, for £850,000. This reduced the 
debt and the balance was then cleared on full, with finance from other sources, thus 
ending the banking relationship between Clydesdale and Messrs W. 
Messrs W subsequently complained, disputing that it was ever their intention to 
resell, and saying that Clydesdale effectively granted the lending in under an hour, 
never sought any business plans or financial forecasts, and had charged too much 
interest. Additionally, theyve said their account manager never engaged with them 
over the success or otherwise of the venture and was rarely available when they tried 
to contact him.
Clydesdale rejected the complaint. In summary, it stood firm on the premise that it 
had been expecting an early resale and debt reduction, and said the lending decision 
took several weeks to formalise, that information it asked for wasnt provided, and 
that its records show regular contact between the account manager and Messrs W. 
However, Clydesdale accepted that an interest rate increase hadnt been properly 
documented. It offered a rebate of just under £52,000, superseding offers made in 
response to previous complaints.
That was in November 2020; the complaint came to us in May 2021. Our investigator 
wasnt persuaded that the main thrust of the complaint about the decision to lend 
should be upheld. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory, or simply disputed, we reach 
our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, decide how much weight should be 
attached to it, and what conclusions can be drawn from it. When doing that, we dont 
just consider individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to 
form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation and background notes. The 
value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous, so they should reflect 
what was said and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its 
always possible information might be recorded incorrectly, but its typically more 
reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres 
a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well generally attach 
some weight to it.
One of the major themes in Mr Ts arguments on behalf of Messrs W is the apparent 
paucity of record-keeping on Clydesdales part. He says there should be far more in 
the way of contemporaneous notes to document and support Clydesdales 
decision-making and the rationale for it. But we can only work with what is available, 
and a relevant lack of evidence isnt, in and of itself, grounds to uphold a complaint. 
Were often asked to decide complaints about lending decisions. Typically, people 
are unhappy that a business has refused to lend; here, however, the complaint is that 
the business lent when it should not have. Either way, the first observation I must 
make is that lending decisions are a matter of commercial judgement on the part of 
the lending business, and generally speaking, its not my role to interfere with that 
judgement or second-guess a decision to (or not to) lend where that judgment has 
been exercised fairly, after proper consideration of the application. 
What I can do is assess whether a lender has exercised its discretion fairly, and 
taken reasonable steps to comply with the obligations placed on it by relevant law, 
regulation and what is considered good business practice at the time of the events 
complained of. In doing that, I can take no account of any hindsight that has come 
about due to subsequent events. 
In bringing the complaint, Mr T initially referenced a number of regulatory frameworks 
that he considered Clydesdale to have breached. However, insofar as this was 
commercial lending from one business enterprise to another, none of those 
regulatory frameworks applies to this complaint. As the case doesnt turn on any 
point of law, that just leaves good business practice which here, is framed in the 
Lending Code. 
The Lending Code sets out in some detail the obligations a lender has to satisfy itself 
that a lending decision is safe, and lists some of the steps it might be expected to 
take in order to do that. But the Lending Code isnt prescriptive; it sets out what a 
lender can or should do, but not what it must do. Also, it has to cater for a wide 
spectrum of situations, ranging from a new application from someone with no existing links to the business to an established customer with a long history of banking and 
borrowing. 
Here, Messrs W fell very much into the latter end of the spectrum, having been active 
in their occupation for around 30 years, and having their banking and borrowing 
activities in connection with that occupation with Clydesdale for close on 20 years. All 
of that means that Clydesdale had considerable scope to exercise its own discretion 
on what checks, if any, it needed to do before agreeing to provide the lending Messrs 
W had asked for. 
The transaction being proposed wasnt a venture into a new area for Messrs W; it 
was, in essence, an expansion of activity in a sector in which Clydesdale knew 
Messrs W had a proven track record. If Clydesdale was of the view that this was a 
lending decision that could be made in a short time with relatively little in the way of 
underwriting checks, Im not sure it would be appropriate for me to say that was 
reckless or irresponsible. 
Mr T makes much of the fact that the account manager called back barely an hour 
after Messrs W first enquired to say they could go ahead with the purchase and the 
bank would fund it. I dont doubt that happened; aside from anything else, its 
corroborated by the draft press article that was later published in a different form. But 
that call didnt commit Clydesdale to lend, nor Messrs W to borrow; neither did the 
facility letter from July 2015. Both parties still had to do their own due diligence on the 
transaction, and that ultimately took until October 2015, an interval that gave both 
sides ample time to change their minds.
That brings me to the premise, which Messrs W and Mr T say is false, that the plan 
was for them to re-sell part of the land soon after completion, and reduce the debt. 
This more than any other part of the complaint is where the balance of probabilities 
comes into play, as the available evidence is all of the things I alluded to earlier: i.e. 
incomplete, contradictory, and disputed. 
Mr T says the notion of a re-sale was dropped into the mix by Clydesdale to save 
face for a very dubious lending decision. Ive already set out my conclusions on the 
lending decision; I cant agree that it was dubious. As for Clydesdale dropping it into 
the mix, Im afraid thats contradicted by Mr Ts own evidence on Messrs Ws behalf. 
In his timeline of events, Mr T has said that in June 2015, it was Messrs W who told 
Clydesdale of a third party who may be interested in sharing the purchase. 
Im aware that same timeline entry also refers at a later point to the third party 
deciding he wasnt interested, and Ive noted the personal statement the third party 
has provided giving his recollections of what happened in 2015. Without in any way 
doubting the good intentions or good faith of the third party, I cant attach the same 
amount of weight to his statement that Mr T would like me to. Thats because its not 
contemporaneous; its been prepared several years after the event, and inevitably 
some degree of hindsight will have crept into it.
What I think is safe to conclude is that Messrs W (not Clydesdale) brought the third 
party into the mix, under the notion that the third party might buy some of the land 
from them after theyd acquired it, and that the third party might also begin a 
business relationship with Clydesdale. Clearly the latter never happened, but the 
available evidence points to Clydesdales lending decision still having been informed 
by the likelihood that the former would happen. That would certainly explain the choice of an overdraft as the lending instrument. It 
provided the flexibility of lending the full £1.1m only for as long as it was needed, 
allowing Messrs W to reduce the debt from the sale and then replace the overdraft 
with a fixed-term loan once the longer-term debt level had been established. I dont 
find significant the absence from the September 2015 facility letter of any formal 
covenant to reduce the overdraft from a partial re-sale.
Ultimately, as the party making the allegation, its incumbent on Messrs W to argue a 
case that is more likely than Clydesdales. Even equally likely isnt enough for me to 
find in their favour; their version of events has to be more persuasive than the 
alternative, and for all the volume of evidence Ive seen, that test hasnt been met.
That brings me to the allegation that Clydesdale effectively forced the sale of the land 
at a loss; thats the basis for Messrs Ws claim for compensation. Mr T has described 
the banks 2017 letter of concern as a call-up by any other name. Mr T says the 
same thing about a second letter of concern from early 2018, highlighting how the 
bank said it reserves the right to consider its position and may seek full repayment. 
Firstly, I dont see anything sinister or untoward in Clydesdale reminding Messrs W of 
the on-demand nature of the overdraft lending. Secondly, Id have to disagree with 
Mr Ts interpretation of these letters as calling in the debt. I say this not least because 
as late as December 2018, Clydesdale issued a facility letter renewing the overdraft 
(an event not included in Mr Ts timeline). Im inclined to agree with Clydesdale when 
it says it never formally called in the overdraft.
It was also in December 2018 that a different third party (Ill refer to him as Mr H) was 
brought in as a mediator to review the situation and recommend a way forward. Ive 
read the summary Mr H produced; that suggests to me that the decision to sell the 
land was his recommendation, taken after he had consulted with Messrs W, Mr T and 
Clydesdale and considered all of their respective opinions and positions. Mr H 
records that at the outset of his review, Messrs W gave an undertaking to act on his 
recommendations. Mr H then records that agents were instructed in February 2019 
and, on the agents recommendation, the land was put up for sale in May 2019. 
Overall, I find that Messrs W chose to sell on the recommendation of Mr H who, 
having sounded out all parties, came to the conclusion that this was the least worst 
option for Messrs W. That recommendation will have been informed in part by the 
knowledge that Clydesdale had lost confidence in Messrs Ws business. Mr H clearly 
believed Clydesdale could potentially call in Messrs Ws debt in full and enforce its 
security over all of their assets. But that does not equate to Clydesdale having forced 
the sale. It simply means Messrs W decided to sell in the knowledge Clydesdale 
could force a sale.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. 
I have, as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a 
material effect on the outcome. I can see from Mr Ts submissions on their behalf the 
intensity with which Messrs W have brought the complaint. They see error or 
wrong-doing in almost everything the bank has done (or not done). Thats a natural, 
subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation 
as Messrs W have been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that 
means stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is 
fair, reasonable and pragmatic in the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes 
up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
Messrs W dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they 
nor Clydesdale will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Messrs Ws right to take legal action against 
Clydesdale over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by 
our consideration of it.
I make one final observation; Messrs W have asked for clarity around the settlement 
offer of circa £52,000 that Clydesdale made in its November 2020 final response. Im 
satisfied that this offer was solely to remedy the issues around the interest rate(s) 
charged, and the extent to which they were agreed and documented. Its not a 
remedy for the issues I have dealt with in this decision. Messrs W can accept that 
settlement (by reverting to Clydesdale directly) whilst still rejecting my final decision, 
and if they do, Clydesdale should pay it. 
I gave the parties two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; Mr T has done so on behalf 
of Messrs W; Clydesdale had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions on the complaint. I will respond to some 
of Mr Ts comments, but only those I consider relevant to the outcome. I say that because 
several of Mr Ts comments address what Clydesdale said in its final response or what our 
investigator said in his initial view of the case. However, my provisional decision supersedes 
both of those.
I take Mr Ts point about Messrs W being experts in their occupation but not in financial 
matters. However, when one runs a business in ones occupation (as opposed to simply 
taking employment in the sector) some financial acumen is essential, and therefore 
expected. That may very well necessitate relying on advice from another source, but its 
important to remember when choosing a source for advice that the banks account 
managers first responsibility is to the bank. The advice and guidance an account manager 
gives should reflect the banks duty to its client but will also be shaped by what is in the best 
interests of the bank itself. Thats why independent consultants exist in the sector; indeed I 
believe that is what Mr T does, albeit I apologise if I have misunderstood his wider role.
Mr T clearly disagrees with my finding that the phone conversation with the account 
manager, whilst supportive of the proposed acquisition, didnt amount to a commitment to 
lend. He poses the question of what might have happened if Clydesdale had decided, after 
further consideration, not to lend; not least the likely financial penalties Messrs W would 
have faced for aborting the transaction. Its not my role to speculate on what could have 
happened but didnt. My remit is to consider what did happen. 
For the reasons Ive already set out in the provisional decision, Im satisfied that the phone 
call started the ball rolling on a transaction that was subsequently approved after both 
parties had ample opportunity to do their respective due diligence. In Clydesdales case that 
would mean assessing the partnership as an entity rather the individual partners separately. 
As Ive already pointed out, the bank had broad discretion to rely on Messrs Ws near 20-year history and track record with it. Separately, when I referred to the corroborative 
nature of the press article, I was merely referring to the return call having being made within 
an hour of Messrs Ws initial enquiry.
Turning to the facility letters of July and September 2015, Mr T continues to maintain that 
these were more than agreements in principle; an unnecessary argument insofar as at no 
time did I describe them thus in the provisional decision. What I did say is that they didnt 
commit Clydesdale to lend, and that is true. They set out the terms on which Clydesdale was 
willing to lend; as for Mr Ts belief that they were legally binding contracts, that only became 
the case once the money had been drawn in October 2015.
Mr T remakes his assertion that an overdraft was inappropriate for a land purchase; at the 
same time he expresses surprise at my not finding any significance in the omission from the 
facility letter(s) of a covenant requiring the debt be reduced by an onward sale. I addressed 
the former in the provisional decision and have read nothing that would change my mind on 
why an overdraft was the chosen lending instrument. As for the latter, an overdraft is 
repayable on demand, so theres no compelling requirement for a separate covenant 
specifying by when and what means it should be repaid.
The extent to which there was a prospect of the third party becoming a Clydesdale customer 
in his own right is an entirely separate matter from the extent to which there was a prospect 
of the third party taking on part of the land after Messrs W had bought it. Its not 
unreasonable for the bank to have proceeded on the basis that the latter was ongoing even 
though the former had apparently come to nothing. 
Its always possible that there was a genuine misunderstanding between Clydesdale and 
Messrs W on what they intended doing with the land, and I agree theres an absence of 
records. But that works both ways, as I havent seen anything to persuade me that 
Messrs W had made it clear and unambiguous to the bank, before drawing down the 
overdraft, that they intended keeping all of the land and putting it to long-term use of their 
own rather than selling on.
Much of what Mr T says in his reply of 7/8 April 2022 is taken up with the repetition of 
arguments he had already made, and which I had already taken into account when arriving 
at my provisional decision. Where he does that, rather than present a new argument, Mr T 
has placed his own interpretation on what Ive said, and on occasion, substituted in its place 
something I havent said. 
At the same time, hes given evidence a greater degree of weight than I have, where he 
considers it supportive of Messrs Ws position. Theres nothing wrong in that  its Mr Ts 
prerogative. He clearly sets great store by the input of the third party and indeed that of 
Mr H. He clearly thinks I should treat their evidence in the same way he does, and I 
appreciate why that is so. But it isnt enough to change my mind on how I have assessed the 
arguments and evidence, or the conclusions I have reached after doing so.
Mr T has said that Messrs W have no other avenue to pursue their case if I dont find in their 
favour. He thinks that puts them (and me) in an awkward position. Im well aware that legal 
action is costly, and therefore not readily accessible to many people. Its one of the reasons 
this service exists. But knowing that this is the case for Messrs W cant affect how I decide 
their complaint. To do so would compromise my impartiality between them and Clydesdale.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M and M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman