DRN-3018378
The complaint
Mrs M complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly turned down her claim, and 
unnecessarily delayed informing her of its decision. 
What happened
Mrs M travelled abroad in May 2017, and unfortunately, while she was away, she was 
diagnosed with cancer. 
Mrs M was treated abroad, and underwent surgery to remove the cancer in June 2017. Mrs 
M said she later recalled that she had travel insurance through her bank account. And 
contacted UKI to make a claim in April 2021. 
There were some delays in UKI delivering a decision on the claim. And when it did so, it 
informed Mrs M the claim had been declined. UKI said the 31 day trip limit on the policy had 
been exceeded. And Mrs M had not contacted UKI when she found out she needed medical 
treatment abroad, which prejudiced its position. 
Mrs M complained to UKI about its decision, and the time it had taken to decide the claim. 
UKI maintained it had been correct to decline the claim. However it said it accepted it could 
have completed its assessment of the claim sooner. It apologised for this, and sent Mrs M 
£75 in compensation. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said he didnt think UKI had unfairly declined the 
claim. And, he thought UKI had done enough to put things right in terms of the delay.
UKI made no further comments. However Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view. In 
summary she said:
she wasnt in the right mental state to contact the insurer following her diagnosis;
her husband contacted her GP on her behalf and was advised there were long 
waiting lists and he didnt know when Mrs M would be treated at home; and 
the doctors abroad advised the cancer had spread and without urgent treatment Mrs 
M could have suffered liver failure.
Mrs M also provided a letter from the surgeon who treated her abroad. This letter had been 
written retrospectively and the surgeon said Mrs M was physically and psychologically unfit 
to travel back to [the] UK. 
The investigator said hed considered the points Mrs M had made, but these had not 
changed his mind. He said Mrs M had previously told us shed forgotten she had the policy, 
and said this was the reason her claim had been made over three years after the event took 
place. And, having reviewed the surgeons letter, he said as this had been written some 
years after the event, he didnt think this was as persuasive as the contemporaneous 
medical evidence. 
Mrs M asked for a decision from an ombudsman, and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say UKI has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mrs Ms policy contains the following terms within the medical expenses section. 
If you go into hospital, you must tell Our Assistance Services immediately.
We will pay up to £10,000,000 for the following for necessary and reasonable 
costs as a result of you being injured or ill during your trip
Emergency medical, surgical and hospital treatment.
What you are not covered for
Any treatment or surgery which Our Assistance Services thinks is not immediately
necessary and can wait until you return home.
And the policy states on the front page of the travel insurance section, and within the 
definitions, that the maximum trip duration covered is 31 days. 
Firstly, I should clarify that Im aware Mrs M has raised another complaint about advice she 
received from UKI. However that is a separate complaint, so I wont be commenting on the 
detail of that here.
The claim decision 
Having reviewed the circumstances of this case, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in turning down Mrs Ms claim. And I say this for the following reasons. 
Mrs Ms policy specifies there is a trip limit of 31 days. She travelled abroad in mid-May 
2017, and remained away for more than 31 days, having her surgery at the end of June. 
Ive considered whether Mrs M exceeded the original intended length of her trip due to 
her surgery. However, Ive seen no evidence of when Mrs M had originally planned to 
return home, such as a pre-booked return flight. 
The policy terms require Mrs M to contact UKI immediately at the point of going into 
hospital. However, Mrs M didnt contact UKI at all while she was abroad. And UKI has 
said if Mrs M had made contact, it would have arranged a repatriation, so that she could 
receive treatment at home. Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, I accept this is 
what UKI would have done, and I think it would have been a reasonable 
recommendation in the circumstances. 
Mrs M has said she needed her treatment immediately and as an emergency, so she 
was unable to return home, where she was aware there was a waiting list for treatment. I 
accept Mrs Ms condition was serious, and that she needed surgery, but Ive not been persuaded that she needed this immediately. Ive considered the time which elapsed 
between Mrs M being diagnosed abroad and undergoing surgery. And as this was a 
period of around three weeks, I think its fair to say Mrs M was not treated immediately, 
or as an emergency. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to hold UKI responsible for any potential delays Mrs M might 
have experienced, when seeking treatment via the NHS at home, had she been 
repatriated. Any delays in treatment in the UK are something beyond UKIs control. And, 
its important to note that Mrs Ms policy is intended to provide cover for necessary 
treatment required immediately abroad; as opposed to private medical insurance cover. 
Mrs M has said she was unfit to fly following her diagnosis, so she couldnt have returned 
home to receive treatment. However, the medical records from 2017 dont make any 
statements about this. Whilst I appreciate Mrs M was shocked by her diagnosis of a very 
serious condition, and dont doubt that this impacted her negatively, Im not persuaded 
she was medically unfit to fly. Ive considered the report retrospectively written by Mrs 
Ms surgeon, which stated she was physically and psychologically unfit to travel. 
However, this report gives no further details of the medical reasons for this. And I 
consider it reasonable that UKI placed reliance on the contemporaneous medical notes 
from 2017, which didnt include this information. 
Delays 
UKI accepted it caused delays by not asking Mrs M about the dates of the trip earlier in the 
process. It apologised and sent Mrs M £75 in recognition of this. In these particular 
circumstances, where there had been a significant delay in Mrs M reporting the claim to UKI, 
Im satisfied this adequately recognises the inconvenience caused. So I wont be asking UKI 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman