DRN-3202788
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complained about Lloyds Bank Plcs (Lloyds) handling of an early 
repayment charge incurred when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M asked Lloyds about the possibility of arranging a new mortgage. Lloyds 
said if they took out a new mortgage within three months of their existing mortgage being 
repaid, they could qualify for a refund of any early repayment charge incurred.
Mr M and Mrs M redeemed their mortgage. The new mortgage Mr M and Mrs M intended to 
take out was on a property which Lloyds classed as an initial occupancy / new build. In this 
instance, Lloyds said any application was subject to a Building Standards Indemnity, or a 
warranty. It has a list of approved providers. Mr M and Mrs M gave Lloyds the details of the 
company they had a warranty from. Lloyds said that particular company was not on its list of 
approved providers, and therefore it would not proceed with the application. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M and Mrs M raised a complaint. They said theyd been told by their 
conveyancer Lloyds was listed as accepting warranties from the provider theyd identified. 
To put things right, they said Lloyds should refund them the early repayment charge they 
incurred of £1,965.19. In response, Lloyds said it didnt need to disclose why it would no 
longer accept warranties from their chosen provider. It declined to refund the cost of the 
early repayment charge, saying it had been applied properly.
Mr M and Mrs M referred their case to us. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened and said she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mrs M, but Ive reached the same conclusions as our 
investigator and for the same reasons. Ive started by considering the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage offer sent to Mr M and Mrs M for the mortgage they redeemed. Section 8 
states: 
Taking your product rate to a new mortgage
In the future, you can apply for a new loan on another property. If Lloyds Bank 
agrees to the new loan you can take the following product(s) and any early 
repayment charge with you for the remainder of the product rate period(s). New loan 
applications are assessed in line with the lending policy at that time which may, for 
example, affect the repayment method, loan amount or term. The new loan will be 
subject to the terms and conditions in force when you make your application.
Im satisfied this made it clear when an early repayment charge would be applied, and that 
any new borrowing is subject to Lloyds lending criteria. 
Ultimately at the heart of this issue is Mr M and Mrs Ms dissatisfaction with Lloyds decision 
not to accept a structural warranty from their chosen provider. Lloyds says it made a 
commercial decision to remove the warranty provider chosen by Mr M and Mrs M from its 
approved providers list in 2020.
I can understand Mr M and Mrs Ms frustration here. They were shown documentation by 
their conveyancer, suggesting the warranty provider would be accepted by Lloyds  but the 
documentation shown to them was not up to date. Theyve also said that another high street 
lender offered a mortgage on the basis of the warranty from the same company supported 
their view Lloyds had acted unfairly. 
I dont agree. Lenders are able to set their own criteria to determine the basis on which they 
will offer a mortgage. Lloyds is able to make a commercial decision as to whether or not it 
will offer a mortgage depending on the warranty provider. It does not have to justify its 
decision to Mr M and Mrs M, and I cant compel it to do so. 
Like our investigator, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr M and Mrs M sought 
confirmation from Lloyds as to whether their warranty provider was acceptable before 
redeeming their original mortgage. Had they done so, they could then have considered their 
options  if any  for avoiding the early redemption charge. I wont be requiring Lloyds to 
take any action to put things right for Mr M and Mrs M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman