DRN-3758295
The complaint
Mrs M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for mishandling a claim
on her home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include its
associated plumbing and drainage company and others insofar as I hold British Gas
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
Mrs M owned a flat. It had a bathroom with a bath in the corner between two tiled walls. 
Against one of the walls there was a mixer tap with a shower attachment. The open side of
the bath had a bath panel and a folding shower screen.
Mrs M rented the flat to tenants.
For the year from late January 2021, Mrs M had a British Gas Homecare policy. It covered
repairs to plumbing and drainage as well as central heating and home electrics. It also
covered a yearly boiler service and a gas safety check. Overall, we categorise it as a home
emergency policy. Mrs M was paying about £46.00 per month.
Mrs M also had a home insurance policy for the flat. Such a policy would usually cover
damage to the flat, including damage caused by an escape of water.
By the autumn of 2021, one of the tenants was pregnant.
Mrs M suspected a leak of water in the bathroom at the flat. So she contacted British Gas for
help under the policy.
On about 9 September 2021, British Gas said that the leak was through the mastic seal
between the bath and tiled wall. The engineer quoted about £200.00. Mrs M accepted the
quote and the engineer did the work.
However, there was still a leak. Mrs M contacted her home insurer who attended and said
that the leak was from the pipework to the tap.
Mrs M contacted British Gas who visited again on about 26 and 27 October 2021.
After the water supply company visited, British Gas replaced the tap and stopped the leak on
about 29 October 2021.
In mid-November 2021, Mrs M complained to British Gas that its initial misdiagnosis had
caused damage.
The home insurer started an extensive repair of water damage to the flat.
By a final response dated late December 2021, British Gas said the following:
offered you a goodwill gesture of £150.00 due to the multiple visits you received
and the misdiagnosis, which you have declined
British Gas are not liable for the damage caused to your property as per our terms
[and] conditions, however I will arrange to reimburse the £200.00 you paid for the
initial repair which was unsuccessful and I have also arranged for you to receive an
additional goodwill gesture of £200.00 due to the distress and inconvenience caused
Unhappy with that, Mrs M brought her complaint to us in late January 2022. She said that
the flat had been uninhabitable, so the tenants moved out and terminated their lease in
December 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
British Gas had made a fair and reasonable offer in the region of what she wouldve
suggested.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs M  
and to British Gas on 21 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Mrs M hadnt shown what damage happened when. So I didnt find British Gas 
responsible for causing damage. And I didnt hold British Gas responsible for the 
consequences of the damage, including the distress and inconvenience of dealing 
with the home insurer.
Nevertheless, I accepted Mrs Ms statement that she (and the tenants) found it 
difficult and time-consuming to get in touch with British Gas by telephone. She was 
frustrated by this and it caused more difficulty in dealing with the tenants at an 
already difficult time.
Subject to any further information from Mrs M or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs M  insofar as it hasnt already paid her - £200.00 in reimbursement of the charge 
for re-sealing and £200.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs M disagreed with the provisional decision in part. She says, in summary, that:
As she suspected a leak, she called British Gas out many times before September 
only to be told there was no leak. This took time ringing trying to arrange visits trying 
to coordinate around the tenants.
Even when she told them where the leak was coming from, British Gas could not 
stop the leak. Even when the water had been turned off, they claimed a new tap 
would need to be put in. They left without doing this despite it being covered by her 
policy and despite her saying numerous times that her (home) insurance company 
would not be able to start works until the leak had been stopped. By them not putting 
in the tap, it delayed the process. It meant more calls, more visits.
She is owed a refund on the work they carried out and initially claimed they would not 
refund. It's not acceptable customer service.Her tenants were patient but the whole saga with British Gas was extremely stressful 
for all sides at a delicate time during pregnancy.
British Gas disagreed with the provisional decision in part. It says, in summary, that:
It sent Mrs M a cheque for £400.00 in late December 2021. 
The cheque has not been cashed.
It is happy for the cheque to be cancelled and reissued.
We shouldnt record the outcome of the complaint as upheld in part.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. Where we uphold a policyholders complaint about an unfair act or
omission, we look at its impact on the policyholder. We assess compensation by reference
to that impact. We dont have the legal power to assess compensation for the impact on
anyone who was not a policyholder, such as the policyholders tenants.
The British Gas policy covered repairs to pipes and taps. But it excluded seals and grouting.
The policy terms included the following definition:
access and making good
- getting access to your appliance or system, and then repairing any damage we
may cause in doing so, by replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve
removed and by filling in holes we have made and leaving a level surface
The policy terms also included the following:
Getting access and making good
In addition to the cost of parts and labour, our insurance products and our 
noninsurance service and repair warranty products cover up to £1,000 including 
VAT for getting access and making good
We wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace
or restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings,
decoration, grass or plants.
The policy terms also included the following:
Replacement parts
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. Well 
try to provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same 
features or an identical make and model or type of fitting. For example, we may 
replace a specific design of tap with a standard one from our range or replace 
electrical fittings with our nearest white, brass or chrome version. Or you can give the 
engineer a replacement part that youve bought yourself, that we approve, but well 
only accept responsibility for our workmanshipThe British Gas policy terms contained the following exclusion:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks. Were also not responsible
for any losses incurred as a result of delayed, rearranged or cancelled
appointments.
Mrs Ms complaint form said that British Gas visited twice before September 2021.But she 
hasnt been specific about the dates. And I havent seen any British Gas notes of such visits. 
In any event, Mrs M already had a problem when she contacted British Gas. Water had 
already escaped and caused signs of damp in the wall. Thats why she contacted British 
Gas.
Ive seen a photograph of the seal before it was re-done. I consider that the seal did need to
be re-done. And it was reasonable for British Gas to think that this was causing a leak. As
the policy didnt cover seals and grouting, the quote for re-sealing was outside the policy.
The home insurer traced the leak from the tap or its pipe. It turned out that the water damage
was extensive.
From the British Gas records, I find it likely that Mrs M or her tenants were reluctant to 
accept a standard British Gas tap.
I find it likely that it was necessary to turn off the water in order to stop the leak and replace 
the tap. From the involvement of the water supply company, I find it likely that British Gas 
couldnt turn off the water inside the flat. 
Keeping in mind the policy terms, I dont consider that British Gas did anything wrong in 
relation to turning off the water or replacing the tap.
Mrs M hasnt shown what damage happened when. So I dont find British Gas responsible
for causing damage. And I dont hold British Gas responsible for the consequences of the
damage, including the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the home insurer.
Nevertheless, I accept Mrs Ms statement that she (and the tenants) found it difficult and
time-consuming to get in touch with British Gas by telephone. She was frustrated by this and
it caused more difficulty in dealing with the tenants at an already difficult time.
British Gas tried to put things right by sending a cheque to reimburse the charge of £200.00 
and to pay a further £200.00 in compensation. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether that was enough to be fair and reasonable compensation for the 
extra impact on Mrs M of the shortcomings for which Ive held British Gas responsible. 
Overall, I conclude that it was fair and reasonable.
In response to the provisional decision, British Gas has sent us a copy of a letter to Mrs M 
dated 25 December 2021 and a cheque dated 28 December 2021. It says Mrs M hasnt 
cashed the cheque. But neither British Gas nor Mrs M had told us about any such letter or cheque before the 
provisional decision. So I find it fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint in part and to 
direct British Gas to pay Mrs M  in place of the December 2021 cheque - £200.00 in 
reimbursement of the charge for re-sealing and £200.00 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
We would record that as no change in outcome since the final response or the referral to us.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M  in place of the December 2021 cheque -
£200.00 in reimbursement of the charge for re-sealing and £200.00 compensation for
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman