DRN-3235270
The complaint
Mrs R complains AXA PPP Healthcare is unfairly ceasing cover for her treatment.
What happened
Mrs R holds a private medical insurance policy underwritten by AXA PPP.
In late 2017, Mrs R underwent surgery covered by her policy. The results of the surgery 
were not as she expected, and Mrs R said she required mental health treatment as a 
result.
AXA PPP covered treatment for Mrs Rs mental health from late 2018. But in August 
2021, it said it would be unable to continue to provide cover for the treatment beyond the 
end of January 2022. And it requested information from Mrs Rs treating doctor  Dr P.
Mrs Rs policy contains the following wording about her cover.
your membership is designed to cover unexpected illness and conditions that 
respond quickly to treatment (acute conditions). This means that it may not 
cover you for treatment of conditions that are likely to last a longer time or 
come back (chronic conditions).
Because we dont cover ongoing, recurring long-term treatment for 
chronic conditions, this means we will not cover:
monitoring a medical condition; or
any treatment that only offers temporary relief of your symptoms, rather 
than dealing with the underlying condition; or
routine follow-up consultations.
And the policy defines acute and chronic conditions as follows.
An acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment that aims to return you to the state of health you were in 
immediately before suffering the disease, illness or injury, or that leads to your 
full recovery.
A chronic condition is a disease, illness or injury that has one of more of the 
following characteristics:
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through 
consultations, examinations, check-ups or tests.
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms.
It requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with 
it.
It continues indefinitely.
It has no known cure.
It comes back or is likely to come back.
If your condition is chronic, unfortunately there will be a limit to how long we cover 
your treatment.
AXA PPP said it deemed Mrs Rs treatment plan to be ongoing, and as such, it would 
be unable to continue to provide cover for it, after the end of January 2022.
During its review of Mrs Rs condition, AXA PPP received a letter from Dr P. It said it 
needed more information than the letter provided, so made a call to ask further questions. 
However, AXA PPP has since accepted that it did not have Mrs Rs consent to contact 
her treating doctor in this way.
Mrs R complained to AXA PPP about its cover decision the claim handler contacting 
her treating doctor directly by phone.
AXA PPP said it had reviewed its decision to stop providing cover for Mrs Rs mental health 
treatment, and thought this had been correct. However, it said it would extend the date at 
which it would cease covering treatment, due to the time it had taken for it to look into the 
matter. It said Mrs Rs mental health treatment would be covered until the end of February 
2022. It apologised for calling Dr P directly for information, without Mrs Rs consent. It said 
it had deleted the information obtained, and did not use that information when re-
considering its decision on ceasing cover for the treatment. It also responded to points Mrs 
R had raised about how she was dealt with by a member of staff at AXA PPP. It said it had 
reviewed the emails, and didnt think the member of staff had acted inappropriately.
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mrs R brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They thought AXA PPP had not 
unfairly decided to cease cover. They noted AXA PPP accepted it had made an error in 
calling Mrs Rs treating doctor without her consent and had deleted the information. 
The investigator said AXA PPP should pay Mrs R £100 in respect of the distress 
caused.
AXA PPP accepted the investigators view. However Mrs R disagreed. She said the 
medical opinion of her treating doctor did not support AXA PPPs claim decision. She 
maintained that her treatment should continue, particularly in view of the impending legal 
proceedings shes involved in. And she disagreed with the amount of compensation the 
investigator suggested.
As Mrs R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say AXA PPP has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
Mrs R had been receiving treatment for her mental health, covered by the policy, since 
late 2018. And AXA PPP reviewed the claim in mid 2021.
Ive reviewed the medical evidence supplied about Mrs Rs condition, including the 
following.
AXA PPP originally authorised ten sessions of therapy in late 2018. A report in 
January 2019 from Dr S, said Mrs R was suffering acute anxiety, but was making 
some improvements. The report stated seven of the two authorised sessions had been 
completed, and requested authorisation for a further eight.
In April 2019, Dr P stated Mrs R to have been suffering with a depressive episode, a 
severe adjustment disorder and anxiety disorder. He said Mrs R had undergone surgery 
previously, and was involved in legal proceedings against the medical practitioner. Dr P 
said this had severely affected Mrs Rs mental health. He said the plan at that time was 
for Mrs R to have more intensive psychological therapy, as the previous sessions with 
Dr S had not been sufficient to control her anxiety. Dr P said he expected Mrs R would 
need four weeks of treatment as a day patient.
In a letter from Dr P in May 2020, he stated Mrs R was suffering with acute anxiety. And 
he said the triggering factor was an ongoing legal case. He said Mrs R was significantly 
benefitting from therapy, and requested that further sessions were authorised by AXA 
PPP to support Mrs R until the legal matters were resolved.
In September 2021, Dr P wrote a further report, following a request from AXA PPP for 
details of Mrs Rs diagnosis and history, an update on her progress and current 
treatment, and prognosis. He said Mrs R was suffering adjustment disorder, anxiety and 
depression. And he referred to the legal proceedings as an ongoing stressor for her. He 
confirmed the medication being taken, and said Mrs R had undergone 200 sessions of 
therapy with Dr S, and was continuing therapy twice a week which she was finding 
helpful. Dr P said he thought Mrs Rs mental state would significantly improve once the 
legal proceedings were resolved. He also referred to other stressors Mrs R was 
experiencing at the time. Dr P said he considered Mrs Rs condition to be acute, and 
would likely remain the same until the spring of 2022, when the legal matters were 
expected to be resolved.
Ive carefully considered the medical evidence, and the terms of Mrs Rs policy. And 
having done so, I dont think AXA PPP has acted unfairly in deciding to cease cover for 
Mrs Rs mental health condition. I say this because her treatment had been ongoing for 
more than two and a half years. During which time, Mrs R had undergone regular therapy 
appointments and consultations. And Im not persuaded the medical reports gave any clear indication of when Mrs Rs treatment would be likely to end.
Dr P stated in his letter in September 2021, that he thought Mrs Rs condition was acute. 
However, having specifically considered the policy definitions of acute and chronic 
conditions, I think it was fair for AXA PPP to deem Mrs Rs condition to meet the policy 
definition of a chronic condition. And this is because Im persuaded the volume of 
treatment sessions and the period involved, reflect that the condition has not responded 
quickly to treatment, and has needed ongoing and long-term monitoring through 
consultations, as per the policy definition of a chronic condition.
I understand Mrs R is going through a very difficult time, and her legal proceedings are 
ongoing. Shes said its particularly important that her treatment continues whilst these 
proceedings take place. Ive considered this, and whilst I appreciate Mrs Rs 
circumstances, I dont think this makes a difference to AXA PPPs decision on the claim. Dr 
P has said the legal proceedings are a trigger for Mrs Rs condition, and that he expects 
her mental state to significantly improve once these proceedings have completed. 
However, the evidence Ive seen shows no clear timeframe in terms of Mrs Rs recovery, or 
the end of her treatment after the legal proceedings complete. And the medical reports 
reflect that stressors other than the legal proceedings were also noted to be factors in Mrs 
Rs condition. So Im still of the opinion that the medical evidence supports Mrs Rs 
condition meeting the policy definition of a chronic condition.
AXA PPP accepted it did not have Mrs Rs consent to call Dr P to ask questions about her 
condition and treatment. It apologised to Mrs R for this, and said it had deleted the 
information obtained. And said it didnt rely on that information when reviewing the decision 
on cover. Im satisfied this was a reasonable way to put things right. However, I think Mrs 
R should be compensated for the distress caused by this mistake. She has said she was 
shocked that a call was made directly to Dr P, and shed been left not knowing what 
information has been divulged. And in view of this, I think its reasonable in the 
circumstances that AXA PPP should pay Mrs R £100 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mrs R had also complained about the conduct of a member of staff at AXA PPP, when they 
corresponded with her about the end of cover for her treatment. AXA PPP said it had 
reviewed the correspondence, and didnt think its staff member acted inappropriately. As 
this issue seemed no longer to be in dispute by Mrs R when she brought her complaint, Ive 
not looked into it as part of my review.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. And I 
direct AXA PPP Healthcare to pay Mrs R £100 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Gemma WarnerOmbudsman