DRN-1544256
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 through a postal application. Mr R says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI, and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now. Ive seen a copy of the 
application form completed and signed by Mr R. Under a section titled optional benefits I 
can there is an option to select to add PPI to the credit card by ticking a box next to it. I can 
there is a tick next to the option to add PPI which I think indicates that Mr R wanted the 
policy. If he didnt want PPI he could have left the box blank and not ticked it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr R has said he would have received some sick pay from his employer at the time. The 
policy covered Mr R in the event of him being unable to work or losing his job. In the event of 
a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid off 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for 
up to 12 months. The policy would have paid out in addition to this cover and potentially for 
longer than his employer would have paid, so I think there was still a benefit to him. I also 
have to keep in mind that the application was completed by a postal application, so it would 
have been up to Mr R to decide whether he wanted this benefit or not, and it appears he 
chose to take it. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said but these points dont change my decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman