DRN-2830833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain through their representative, a claims management company (CMC), 
that they were unsuitably advised by National Westminster Bank Plc to invest in a 
Guaranteed Capital Bond (GCB) and a Portfolio Bond (PB). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T received investment advice from NatWest in May 2006.The adviser 
recommended that they invest £10,500 in a GCB over a term of three and a half years and 
£15,000 in a PB over a term of five years. 
The CMC complained on their behalf to NatWest in 2020. NatWest didnt uphold the 
complaint as they thought the recommendations were suitable for Mr and Mrs T at the time. 
The CMC didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by 
one of our investigators.
The investigator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. He said, in summary:
He had no concerns over the sale of the PB 
He thought the GCB was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time. 
Given their relative lack of experience in financial markets, he didnt think the adviser 
gave Mr and Mrs T enough information to make an informed decision 
He didnt think they were made aware of the limitations of the GCB where the 
maximum return was capped at 123% which he thought would only happen in very 
favourable investment conditions and there was a real risk of a nil return
Hed found evidence of NatWest offering a fixed rate bond (FRB) at the time which 
offered a guaranteed return of 4.4% per annum
He thought that if the adviser had clearly outlined the risk of not receiving a return 
compared to the prospect of the guaranteed return from the FRB, then it was more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs T would have chosen to invest in the FRB
NatWest didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
The documentation from the time showed that Mr and Mrs T were both unhappy with 
the return on traditional bank and building society accounts and felt that investing 
their funds was the best option
The available evidence showed that a conversation had taken place where 
alternative products and investments including deposit-based bonds and alternatives 
to the GCB were discussed and subsequently dismissed by Mr and Mrs T in pursuit 
of greater growth potential
The investigator had placed emphasis on the fact that the maximum 123% return 
would only happen in very favourable investment conditions and had a real risk of 
a nil return whereas either outcome was an equally potential possibility 
The maximum return of 123% and the risk of a nil return was made clear in the 
suitability letter and the product brochure that would have been provided at the time
The investigators assessment was said with the benefit of hindsight  they 
appreciated that the GCB didnt make a return but it was only due to the benefit of 
hindsight that it could now be said a better return may have been received if the 
money was in a different investment 
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be partially upheld, I 
will now explain why.
Ive firstly considered Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time. It was recorded that they 
were 56 and 55 respectively, Mr T was in employment and Mrs T was retired. Mr T had 
recently received a lump sum and they were looking to invest for greater growth potential. 
They had a monthly disposable income of around £900 and savings of around £44,000. 
They dont appear to have had any prior investment experience and had an attitude to risk of 
two on a scale of one to five. This was defined as:
I understand the relationship that exists between risk and reward. My aim is to achieve 
greater returns over the longer-term than interest paying accounts, and I am therefore 
prepared to accept the risk of possibly losing some of my money and to see some 
fluctuations in value. To achieve the above I will consider investing in the following types of 
areas: -
* Funds that invest in a wide range of assets, including shares but which aim to follow a 
relatively cautious approach to risk; or 
* Funds that invest in asset types that are expected to be less volatile in value than shares; 
or
* A product or fund that aims to offer a minimum amount at a set point in time
From what Ive seen, its clear that Mr and Mrs T wanted to maximise the return from their 
capital without taking much risk. Its noted that they were unhappy with the return they were 
getting on their deposit accounts (which was recorded as 0.1%) and wanted the potential for 
greater growth. The adviser recommended that they invest £10,000 in a GCB over a term of 
three and a half years and £15,000 in a PB over a term of five years. This was around 56% 
of their available capital and left them with sufficient funds on deposit in case of 
emergencies. Given their circumstances, I think they were able to invest and I dont think the 
amount they were advised to invest was unreasonable.
Ive then considered the nature of the recommendation. Both products recommended had a 
capital guarantee but also came with drawbacks. One of the drawbacks with guaranteed 
investments is the risk of no return, which when taken into account with inflation means that any money invested could lose value in real terms. 
This is a risk that can be reasonably accepted if there is a potential for a greater return  
such as in the case of the PB which didnt have a cap on the amount it could return. 
Because of this, I dont think the advice to invest in the PB was unsuitable. However, Ive 
carefully considered the potential returns offered by the GCB, which was limited to 123% of 
the amount invested. I also note that in the suitability letter (regarding the PB), its stated that 
Mr and Mrs T liked the idea of unlimited growth potential.
The suitability letter says that other products were discussed  but they were discounted in 
favour of the potential for growth that the GCB provided. It said: You want to have the 
potential for greater returns than those offered by lower risk deposit based accounts or 
deposit based bonds even though as a non-taxpayer Mrs T would be able to obtain a 'tax-
free' return on such accounts. As explained to you, any tax suffered within the recommended 
bond cannot be reclaimed by a non-taxpayer.
As the investigator noted, at the time NatWest were offering a FRB with a rate of return of 
4.4%. The rate of return of the GCB if it were to achieve its maximum return was around 
6.6% and I can understand why this would have appeared attractive to Mr and Mrs T. 
However, conditions would have had to have been favourable for the GCB to provide the 
maximum return. I appreciate what NatWest have said about the performance of the FTSE 
100 in the period leading up to the recommendation, but I must also take into account that 
Mr and Mrs T were not experienced investors. 
I think that given their relative inexperience with investing, without further detail from the 
adviser, I dont think Mr and Mrs T would have been able to fully understand quite how 
favourably the FTSE 100 would have to perform to achieve the maximum return. In May 
2006 it was around 5700 and would have to finish at an average level of the last six months 
of the term of around 7000. While this wasnt impossible, I think its important to note that the 
FTSE 100 had never been higher than around 6900 and had only been above 6500 for a 
period of time between 1999 and 2000.
So, from what Ive seen, there needed to be very strong stock market growth for the 
maximum return to be achieved and there was a high probability that Mr and Mrs T would 
receive a rate of return that was lower than that offered by FRBs. I cant see that the adviser 
explained this to them. 
Ive also considered the information Ive seen in the key facts document which accounted for 
the impact of charges on the investment. And even if the index grew by 6% a year, the 
impact of deductions meant the actual net return would be 4.3%. So, I think more clarity 
could have been provided to ensure that Mr and Mrs T could make an informed decision 
about the realistic prospect of the GCB outperforming the rate of return provided by the 
FRBs on offer at the time. 
So overall, having considered their position at the time  and the fact that they had also 
invested in another product which could potentially provide no return - I think the advice to 
invest in the GCB was unsuitable. I dont think that Mr and Mrs T had been provided with 
enough information to make a fully informed choice and I think its more likely than not that if 
theyd been provided with a clear explanation then they would have chosen to invest 
differently. 
Putting things right
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs T as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs T's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
What must NatWest do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs T fairly, NatWest must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs T's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Guaranteed 
Capital BondNo longer 
existsNatWest 
Fixed Rate 
Bond - 
4.45%Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs T wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and Mrs T's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs T would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should 
pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman