DRN-3852141
The complaint
Mr A intended to pay off his residential mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) but he 
said that it was much higher than he expected. BoS had paid ground rent on his property. Mr 
A objected to this.
What happened
Mr A told us he took out an interest only mortgage with BoS in 2006, and had been paying 
the mortgage ever since. He said he moved from an address which isnt the mortgaged 
property in 2014, and told BoS of his change of address, but he said BoS had never updated 
his address. He said he was still having difficulties getting this updated now, which showed 
just how inefficient BoS is. He said it couldnt update his phone number either.
Mr A enquired recently about paying off the mortgage, and found his debt was much higher 
than he expected, by over £16,000. BoS had paid ground rent debts for the property, and 
added these to his mortgage. 
Mr A strongly disputes owing this much money for ground rent, and said BoS should have 
contacted him about this, so that he could have challenged it. 
Mr A said BOS should remove this extra money from his mortgage and refund all the interest 
it has charged on this extra unauthorized addition to his account. Mr A said he intended to 
take this issue to court if our service wouldnt assist him. 
BoS said it had made three payments in respect of ground rent, for Mr As property, in 2016, 
2018 and 2019. It said it is allowed to make these payments, and to add them to Mr As 
mortgage, when the landlord is threatening to forfeit the lease. Otherwise, forfeiting the lease 
means Mr A would lose his property, and BoS would lose the security for the loan it made on 
that property. 
BoS said it had written to Mr A each time about those payments, and it sent text messages, 
so it had tried to contact him. It also said that court action had been taken over this unpaid 
ground rent, so the managing agents for the property, their lawyers, and the local county 
court would also have been trying to get in touch with him, about the debt. BoS also said Mr 
A ought to have been aware that the ground rent was due, and unpaid. 
BoS wouldnt waive this money from Mr As mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that BoS had been 
informed of court action over the unpaid fees, and had to pay this to protect its security. He 
said this was in line with the terms of Mr As mortgage. 
Our investigator said that in March 2016, BoS wrote to Mr A, asking him to sign a form to 
authorise his change of address. BoS has told us it does that whenever its changing the 
address on a residential mortgage  its an extra precaution, because with a residential 
mortgage, BoS would normally expect the correspondence address to be the mortgaged 
property. Mr A didnt return that form, so BoS didnt change his address. 
BoS did then attempt to contact Mr A about the payments for ground rent due on his 
property, both by letter and text. Our investigator understood Mr A wanted to dispute the 
amounts owed, but he said he couldnt rule out that BoS would have paid these amounts 
anyway, if the freeholder was otherwise going to repossess the property. Our investigator 
also said Mr A would have been aware that he was due to make annual ground rent 
payments, and couldve contacted the freeholder to discuss his payments during that time. 
Mr A said he strongly objected. He said BoS couldnt have sent a form to complete for a 
change of address in 2016 when it had already been informed of the change of address two 
years earlier, in 2014. He said BoS had recently changed his address, with no requirement 
for a form to be completed. And he said there was no text or email sent to him in relation to 
these payments, or in relation to a change of address. He said his email address has been 
unchanged throughout. 
Mr A said he wanted this case to be considered by an ombudsman, and repeated that he 
intended to take this case to court if our service wouldnt assist him. This case was then 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr A says the relevant change of address, which BoS failed to make, happened in 2014. But 
I havent been able to see that on BoS records. And I can see when Mr A first complained to 
BoS, its notes from the time indicate that he mentioned a change of address in 2016, not 
2014. So I think its most likely that the relevant change of address, which wasnt actioned, 
happened in 2016.
Mr A has raised a query over whether BoS should take such extensive precautions, sending 
out a form for a change of address. But I note that Mr A has a residential mortgage with BoS 
 so its expecting him to live in the property. I dont think its unreasonable for BoS to take 
additional precautions whenever someone who has a residential mortgage asks for all their 
correspondence to be sent to an address which isnt the mortgaged property. And thats 
what it appears that BoS has done here. 
Mr A also says that BoS doesnt always do this. He says its managed to change his address 
before, and again recently, without this form. I do think it is BoS policy to send out a form to 
be completed for a change of address. But I note it may not do this for an address change 
actioned in a branch, where its able to check ID right away. And if Mr A has successfully 
changed his address in other circumstances, where BoS failed to action its policy properly, 
that still wouldnt change my view that this is something its reasonable for BoS to do.
It doesnt look like Mr As address was successfully updated in 2016. So BoS 
correspondence apparently wasnt reaching Mr A, from early 2016. Unfortunately, this meant 
he didnt get BoS letters about outstanding ground rent. I know Mr A will disagree with me 
about this, but dont think thats BoS fault. And if Mr A wasnt getting regular letters from 
BoS about his mortgage, I would have expected him to get in touch with BoS to ask why. Mr A said that BoS didnt email or text him. BoS has explained that it doesnt send emails 
about a mortgage, as emails arent secure. I think thats a reasonable thing for BoS to say. 
And I note that Mr A told BoS when he made this complaint that he doesnt keep his phone 
number updated, because it changes frequently.
Mr A says that the amounts BoS was paying must have been wrong, because the ground 
rent he owed was never this much. Mr A presumably also wasnt getting correspondence 
from the freeholder of his property, telling him that ground rent payments were due. I dont 
think thats BoS fault. And Mr A hasnt told us how he thought this was being paid. 
Because Mr A didnt reply to its correspondence, BoS paid the ground rent that was due on 
the mortgaged property. I think thats in line with the conditions of Mr As mortgage, and I 
dont think BoS did anything wrong when it did that. It acted to protect the security of its 
mortgage. BoS doesnt have to wait for a county court judgment before it can pay ground 
rent on Mr As behalf. But at least one of these payments was made in response to a county 
court judgment against Mr A, and a clear indication from the agent that it intended to 
repossess the property. 
I know that Mr A was both surprised and disappointed to find that he owed more on this 
mortgage than he anticipated. But without these payments being made by BoS, in 
circumstances where Mr A wasnt otherwise getting correspondence from the managing 
agents either, it seems very likely that Mr A would have lost his flat. 
For these reasons, I dont think BoS has to remove these payments from Mr As mortgage 
debt now. I know Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman