DRN-4102841
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) settled only a portion of his travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to Zurich includes all its agents. 
What happened
In January 2022, Mr N took out an annual multi-trip travel policy which was underwritten by 
Zurich. 
He booked a trip with his family in March 2022. They were due to depart on 8 July 2022 and 
return on 12 July 2022. 
Their flights were cancelled by their flight provider due to strikes by the airline staff. Mr N 
received a refund for the cost of the flights and the hotel accommodation was cancelled 
without cost. He submitted a claim to Zurich for the cost of an excursion hed booked for him 
and his family as he didnt receive a refund for this from the provider. He also submitted a 
claim for the airport parking. 
Zurich assessed his claim. It refunded Mr Ns portion of the excursion and said his adult 
children should make a claim with their own travel insurance providers. But Mr N said he 
paid the entire cost for all of them. 
Mr N made a complaint to Zurich, and it issued a final response. It said the claim should not 
have been paid as the event that led to the claim wasnt covered under Mr Ns policy terms 
and conditions. It didnt ask for the settled amount to be returned.
He disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it. She 
concluded that Zurich did not need to take any further action.  And while it agreed to pay 
Mr Ns portion of the claim, this was done so incorrectly. The cost of the excursion was 
refunded to Mr N, but it wasnt covered according to the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr N asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman as he didnt agree with the 
investigators findings. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Mr N has confirmed their flight was cancelled due to strikes by airline staff. As he received a 
refund for the cost of the flights and his accommodation was cancelled without a charge, the 
outstanding cost that he has claimed for was the excursion hed booked for him and his two 
sons. 
The key issue in dispute therefore is whether the cost of the excursion ought to be paid fully 
to Mr N by Zurich.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns travel insurance policy as this 
forms the basis of his contract with Zurich. 
There are two possible sections of Mr Ns travel policy that could apply:
The first one is on page 18, Section A  Cancelling and cutting short your holiday. 
Ive considered whether this section applies in the circumstances of Mr Ns 
complaint. While this section provides cover for prepaid excursions, the events that 
lead to the cancellation are listed in this section. However, cancellation of flights due 
to a strike isnt an event that provides cover under this section. There is a special 
condition which applies to this section which says:
2. We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out 
insurance cover with XXX. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not 
insured, we only pay your proportion of costs not theirs, regardless of who has paid 
for the booking.
Based on the above, as the cancellation section of the policy doesnt apply to Mr Ns 
circumstances, it follows that the special condition above also doesnt apply because 
overall, section A doesnt apply. 
The second one is on page 23 Section F  Delayed departure or abandoning your 
trip. The delayed departure part wouldnt apply but the abandoning your trip section 
could apply in Mr Ns circumstances. So, Ive considered this part which says:
Please remember
You are entitled to claim for either delayed departure or abandoning your trip, but not 
for both.

Abandoning your trip
If you have to abandon your outward trip as a result of a delay lasting more than 24 
hours where the delay has been caused by a strike or industrial action, poor weather 
conditions or a mechanical breakdown, we will pay for your unused travel and 
accommodation expenses, including any local prepaid excursions, tours or activities, 
up to the amounts shown in the table of benefits after any amount that you can get 
back is taken off. 
..
Special conditions which apply to section F
Under this policy you must:1. Have checked in for your trip at or before the recommended time; and 
2. Get a written statement from the appropriate transport company or authority 
confirming the reason for the delay and how long it lasted.
Mr Ns flight was cancelled in advance of the departure date, and he was given notice of this 
by the flight provider. He hadnt checked in for the trip. Therefore, this section of the policy 
also doesnt apply in the circumstances and Mr N has no cover here either. 
Ive also carefully considered the remaining terms and conditions of Mr Ns travel policy. But 
there are no other sections of the policy that provide cover for what happened in his 
situation. 
Has Zurich treated Mr N fairly and reasonably?
I can see that Zurich has paid Mr N his portion of the cost of the excursion he booked minus 
the excess. I also note that Zurich incorrectly assessed the claim and paid this amount 
when, in fact, he had no cover under his policy.
So, if Zurich had correctly assessed Mr Ns claim, it would have been declined at the outset. 
And, as a result, there would have been no question regarding whether the cost for the 
booked excursion for his sons would have been covered under the terms and conditions of 
the policy as the event that led to the cancellation of the flight (i.e., strike by the airline staff) 
is not one that is listed as providing cover. 
Essentially, Mr N has been incorrectly paid by Zurich and I can see that it hasnt requested 
for this payment to be returned. Had Zurich assessed the claim correctly, Mr N would not 
have been entitled to a payment for his portion of the excursion cost. And, as his claim isnt 
covered, the portions he paid for his family for the excursion, would not be covered either. 
Im satisfied that Zurich has treated Mr N fairly and reasonably. 
Conclusion
Overall, Ive taken everything into account, including the comments Mr N has provided and 
Im not persuaded that his claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
While Zurich did incorrectly assess his claim, this has been to Mr Ns advantage, and he is in 
a better financial position as a result. I dont think Zurich has therefore treated Mr N unfairly 
or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require Zurich to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Zurich Insurance PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman