DRN-2787272
The complaint
Mr K is complaining that Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold him a term assurance 
and critical illness policy in 1998.
What happened
Mr K started a level term assurance plan in March 1998. The plan provided cover of 
£120,000 on death, or critical illness, for 35 years. The monthly premium included a charge 
of £4.55 for an extension option. 
In 2020, Standard Life realised that although Mr K had been paying for an extension option, 
his plan already had the maximum possible term of 35 years, so Mr K wouldnt be able to 
use the extension option. They wrote to Mr K, telling him of the issue and refunded 
everything Mr K had paid for the extension option, with interest. They also cancelled the 
extension option and reduced the monthly premium by £4.55 going forward.
Mr K called Standard Life to complain, saying that if hed known the extension option 
wouldnt be available, he wouldnt have taken the plan out. He felt the plan had been mis-
sold.
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the financial planning report prepared 
by the adviser showed Mr K asked for cover of £120,000 for 35 years  there was nothing to 
show that the extension option was an integral part of Mr Ks requirements.
Mr K remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. He said that he and his 
partner at the time had just taken out a mortgage in his partners name. So they were 
arranging life assurance for her and it seemed sensible to get life assurance for him as well. 
Mr K said the adviser had recommended 35 year term assurance with critical illness cover 
which would end when Mr K was 63. But Mr K didnt want it to end at 63 so the adviser 
suggested an extension option which would take it to 73. Mr K says he was happy with this 
and left the office thinking he had signed up for life and critical illness cover until he was 73. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the documents from the time of 
sale say that Mr Ks requirement was for cover for 35 years.  And she said the policy 
documents sent to Mr K showed that the policy couldnt be extended beyond 35 years. She 
also noted that Mr K had made no effort to use the option to extend the policy. So, she said, 
although Standard Life shouldnt have added the extension option to Mr Ks policy, she 
thought theyd done enough to put things right for him by refunding the additional premiums 
hed paid.
Mr K wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint  so its come to 
me. In doing so, Mr K referenced an article hed found from a Standard Life magazine which 
he felt suggested Standard Life knew from the outset that theyd mis-sold Mr Ks policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr K, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The crux of Mr Ks complaint is that he thought he was leaving the advisers office with 45 
years of life assurance and critical illness cover taking him up to the age of around 73  but 
hes now found out that he only bought cover to the age of 63, and its not possible to extend 
it to 73.
In some ways, the extension option is irrelevant  when Mr K spoke to our investigator it was 
clear he didnt realise he would have had to actively ask for the extension. 
When considering a complaint, I have to decide whats most likely to have happened, taking 
into account the evidence I have available. Clearly its difficult to know exactly what took 
place in the meeting in 1998. Standard Life have provided a copy of the financial planning 
questionnaire done with Mr K and signed by him in February 1998. The questionnaire 
records that Mr K declined a full review of his life cover requirements. And then it says: You 
have stated that you require Life Cover of £120000 over a term of 35 years to tie in with your 
needs. 
The questionnaire does mention the extension option  saying that the adviser was 
recommending it  but it doesnt suggest Mr K had asked for this, or mentioned that he 
actually wanted 45 years of cover rather than 35 years. So unfortunately the documents from 
the time of the sale contradict what Mr Ks said about the meeting. 
In addition to this, Standard Life have provided the policy documents which were sent to 
Mr K in early 1998. The policy terms clearly state that the policy couldnt be extended 
beyond 2033, i.e. 35 years. Mr K is adamant that he wanted a 45 year policy rather than a 
35 year policy  but Im satisfied the policy documents made it clear that it couldnt be 
extended beyond 35 years and he had the opportunity to cancel the policy and find 
something more suitable at this point. 
Taking everything together, I cant see any evidence that Mr K wanted a policy for more than 
35 years, or that he simply wouldnt have taken the policy out if hed known it was only for 35 
years. I appreciate thats his recollection, but the written evidence from the time suggest that 
he was happy with a 35-year policy.
Finally, Mr Ks referred to an article dating back to 2004 about the type of Standard Life 
policy he held. Hes said this article shows that the extension option was only available on 
mortgage-related contracts, and as his life assurance wasnt mortgage-related this shows 
the policy was mis-sold from the start. However, the article was published six years after 
Mr K took out his policy. And I dont agree with Mr Ks interpretation of the article  I think the 
points about extension options and mortgage-related contracts are completely separate. So I 
dont think this article has any bearing on Mr Ks complaint.
Standard Life have already refunded all of the additional premiums Mr K paid for the 
extension option, together with interest. And Im not persuaded that Mr K wouldnt have 
taken the cover if hed known he could only have it for 35 years. So Im satisfied Standard 
Life have done enough to put things right.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman