DRN-3550936
The complaint
Mr Z has complained about a policy which was mis-sold to him by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
Mr Z bought an income protection policy in 2010, sold by Lloyds, with a deferred period of 26 
weeks for a benefit amount of £600 per month, if he was unable to work due to illness. 
Mr Z made a claim which was declined as Mr Z was earning more than the benefit amount 
and so he wasnt entitled to a benefit. 
Mr Z complained about the sale of the policy. Lloyds accepted that the policy was unsuitable 
as Mr Z had told his adviser he would receive full pay for six months and half pay for six 
months. On that basis, a 52-week deferred period would have been more suitable. 
Mr Z complained to Lloyds and it agreed that the policy was unsuitable, so it calculated the 
difference between the price of the policy Mr Z bought and the price of a policy he should 
have been offered (with a deferred period of 52 weeks). It refunded the difference, with 
interest, and paid £250 compensation.
Mr Z is unhappy with this as he says he never would have bought the policy if he had been 
told that the deferred period would be 52 weeks. And so he wants a full refund of premiums. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Lloyds had already offered a 
reasonable remedy as he was persuaded that Mr Z would have taken an alternative policy 
with a 52-week deferred period in 2010, based on the available paperwork.
Mr Z disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said the paperwork provided 
by the business doesnt accurately reflect the discussions he had with the adviser and it 
seems incorrect assumptions were made.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator.
I would like to reassure Mr Z that I have fully considered everything he has said, even if I 
dont explicitly refer to it in my decision. Thats because my decision will focus on what I 
consider to be key to my conclusion:
When a policy is sold as part of an advised sale, the seller has to ensure that it is 
suitable based on the needs and circumstances of the buyer. 
Mr Z would have needed a replacement income after 12 months of absence from 
work due to illness. This was because he would have received full pay from his 
employer for six months and half pay for six months. A policy with a 52-week 
deferred period would have been suitable. So its more likely than not that he would 
have agreed to a deferred period of 52 weeks in 2010, if it had been recommended 
to him. 
I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that Mr Z would have wanted to protect his 
income once he was no longer receiving any sick pay, if he continued to be off work 
due to illness. 
Mr Z says the paperwork from the time isnt an accurate reflection of what was 
discussed between him and his adviser. But I have no reason to doubt the accuracy 
of the reports from 2010. And I have placed more weight on the available 
documentary evidence than Mr Zs memory and recollection.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z but the paperwork shows he wanted to protect his income in the 
event of sickness and that he chose a lower benefit amount to reduce his premiums. On that 
basis, I think its reasonable to conclude that had Mr Z been recommended a policy with a 
52-week deferred period, he would have accepted this to cover his income for up to 22 
years, if he was unable to work due to illness.
So overall, I think the refund, interest and compensation of £250 is appropriate in all the 
circumstances of this case. Although Mr Z was sold an unsuitable policy, there was a 
suitable alternative he should have been offered which still would have provided Mr Z with a 
benefit in the event of an eligible claim. 
I think £250 compensation is appropriate for the stress and inconvenience caused as Lloyds 
put its error right quickly and fully explained what should have happened instead. So I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman