The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc broke an earlier agreement not to contact him about 
his account. He says this has affected his health for which hed like compensation.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Lloyds that got into difficulties around 2018. As part of the 
agreement to resolve this, Lloyds made a refund of interest and charges to Mr C. Mr C says 
it also agreed not to contact him about his account as he found any contact very stressful.
Mr C says, despite this, Lloyds has continued to contact him, including recently sending 
him 2 cheques for refunds that he understood had been repaid previously. He feels Lloyds is 
in breach of its previous agreement not to contact him and says the constant reminders of 
his previous problems are affecting his health. 
Mr C feels Lloyds' systems are disorganised and he's now concerned that its previous 
calculations may not have been correct. Hed like this clarified as well as compensation for 
his upset and inconvenience and an agreement by Lloyds not to contact him again. 
Lloyds said it had dealt with Mr Cs original complaint in 2018 and it was now out of time to 
look again at any issues arising from that. It agreed it had recently been in touch with Mr C 
and sent him two refunds that appeared to duplicate previous payments. However these 
letters and refunds were automatically generated when its systems identified an account 
where a refund was due -  and this could happen even where a previous refund had already 
been made. It acknowledged that from time to time, this might result in duplicate payments 
but while it couldnt avoid this, when it did happen, it didn't ask for the overpayment to be 
repaid.  
Lloyds didn't agree it had broken its agreement with Mr C in 2018 about the contact on his 
account. And because it hadn't asked for a return of the overpayment, it didn't feel there'd 
been any detriment.
Our investigator said that he was only able to look at the letters and cheques sent after 
December 2018. This was because Lloyds had sent Mr C a final response in December 
2018 and in that letter it had told Mr C of his options including that any referral to this service 
must be made within 6 months of the date of that letter. Mr C hadnt done so and for that 
reason, any concerns about that were now out of time.
While he could see how upsetting Mr C had found the recent letters, Lloyds had told Mr C in 
2018 that some future contact was possible so he didn't agree it had breached 
the agreement.  The two recent refunds had been generated automatically as part of a 
systems review of its accounts. They were duplicates and he could understand why Mr C 
found this confusing but as Lloyds hadnt asked Mr C to repay the money he didn't feel 
there'd been any detriment.
DRN-1718571Mr C disagreed and said Lloyds had showed a lack of organisation in issuing duplicate 
cheques. Further although he accepted Lloyds had told him in 2018 that it may have to carry 
out future reviews, he thought that was to prevent further letters, so he didn't agree Lloyds 
had complied with the previous agreement. He wanted Lloyds to agree not to contact him 
again and to compensate him for his upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr C has referred to various letters and contacts from Lloyds going back to his 
previous complaint in 2018. I should explain that the rules that say what complaints we can 
accept do not allow us to accept complaints that are brought to us more than 6 months after 
the date of the final response letter unless there are exceptional circumstances to explain 
that delay. This complaint was outside of that time frame and I havent seen any 
circumstances to justify extending this time limit. For that reason I confirm that Im only 
looking at the events that happened after the date of the previous final response letter in 
2018.
Having said that, this complaint is linked to what was agreed between Lloyds and Mr C in 
2018. Mr C believes Lloyds had agreed not to contact him again about his account and that 
its now broken that agreement.
Mr C's explained very clearly why hes finds it so upsetting to be contacted by Lloyds but 
while I dont underestimate his concerns, I'm not satisfied Lloyds has done anything wrong 
as I'll now explain.  
I've seen that in 2018, Lloyds told Mr C that it couldnt guarantee it wouldn't contact him 
again, and why.  I can understand why Mr C would prefer this didn't happen but in the 
circumstances, I cant agree Lloyds has broken its previous agreement about this.
With regard to the recent letters, these relate to two cheques for two refunds totalling 
£650.58. The payments, however, were for accounts where a refund had already been sent  
and the covering letters didn't explain this or why this had happened.  
Its understandable that Mr C found this confusing but it appears the problem in this case lies 
with the way the refunds are identified, rather than the calculations in themselves. As Lloyds 
has now explained, if a systems review identifies an account that meets the criteria for a 
refund, a cheque will be generated automatically without linking that refund back to the 
individual account to see if its already been paid. Lloyds accept that, on occasions, this 
might lead to a duplicate payments- as in Mr C's case. It says this cant be avoided but 
where it does happen, it wont ask for the overpayment to be repaid. 
I realise Mr C may not be satisfied by this explanation but Lloyds is entitled to use its 
commercial judgement as to how to manage its internal systems and processes and I can't 
require it to change those systems to guarantee Mr C won't receive any further contact in 
the future. 
However I'm pleased to see Lloyds has acknowledged the impact of its actions on Mr C and 
said it won't be asking for him to return the overpayments. The overpayments total just over 
£650 and, in the circumstances, I consider that's reasonable for the inconvenience caused to 
Mr C in this case. I can't see that there's been any additional detriment that requires further 
compensation and I won't therefore be asking Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman