DRN-3773055
The complaint
Mr P complains that ReAssure Limited has failed to deal with his request to transfer pension 
benefits to another provider in an efficient or timely manner.
What happened
Mr P holds pension savings with ReAssure. Those pension savings are held in a Personal 
Retirement Plan  often known as a Section 226 plan. Mr P made regular contributions to his 
pension plan that entitled him to receive a guaranteed annuity amount at retirement. That 
guaranteed annuity could be supplemented by the addition of annual bonusses. 
On 27 August 2021 ReAssure received a transfer request for Mr Ps pension savings from 
another provider. But, since Mr Ps pension plan offered him what are known as safeguarded 
benefits, it first needed to provide him with details of the benefits he could receive from his 
ReAssure pension plan. It sent that information to Mr P on 23 September 2021. ReAssure 
says that it was obliged to allow two weeks to elapse before it started processing Mr Ps 
transfer request. But the transfer value that ReAssure quoted to Mr P at that time was much 
lower than a value it had provided to Mr P in July 2021.
Mr Ps financial advisor made a number of telephone calls to ReAssure to chase the 
progress of the transfer request. On 12 October 2021 ReAssure told the financial advisor 
that, since the value of Mr Ps safeguarded benefits exceeded £30,000, he was required to 
receive regulated advice before the transfer could proceed.
The financial advisor then wrote to Mr P to inform him that it was not authorised to provide 
him with financial advice of that nature. It apologised to Mr P that it hadnt identified the 
nature of his pension benefits from the information ReAssure had previously sent. It told him 
that it could pass his information to another firm that could provide the necessary regulated 
advice.
Mr P then complained to ReAssure about the delays in the transfer of his pension benefits. 
ReAssure told Mr P that it didnt think it had been responsible for any delays on the transfer 
 it pointed out that it was still awaiting confirmation that Mr P had received regulated advice 
on the transfer. But it thought it should have been clearer about the steps Mr P needed to 
take when he first requested the transfer. So it sent him a cheque for £50 for the 
inconvenience hed been caused. Mr P didnt accept that cheque and returned it to 
ReAssure.
Mr P continued to discuss his complaint with ReAssure. And the new advisor firm made a 
number of requests to ReAssure for information on the pension policy, although it does 
appear that some of those requests were not a clear as they might have been. ReAssure 
issued information about the pension policy to the new provider in January, February, and 
April 2022. But it doesnt appear that Mr P has yet received the financial advice that would 
be needed before he can transfer his pension savings.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She was satisfied that the 
transfer value ReAssure provided to Mr P in September 2021 was correct  and that it was 
the July 2021 value that was in error. She noted that Mr P had still not returned the 
confirmation that he had received regulated advice about the transfer. So she didnt think 
that any earlier delays in sending the necessary form to the original financial advisor had 
caused any impact on the timing of the transfer. But the investigator did conclude that 
ReAssure hadnt always provided information to Mr P or his financial advisor in as timely 
manner as it should have. So the investigator asked ReAssure to pay a total of £250 
compensation to Mr P (inclusive of the £50 it had already offered) in respect of the 
inconvenience hed been caused.
ReAssure accepted that assessment and said it would pay the compensation to Mr P. But 
Mr P didnt agree. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
Whilst the case has been awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, Mr P has raised a further 
matter with us. ReAssure had sent him a letter in July 2022 regarding the addition of regular 
bonusses to his pension plan. But, in November 2022, it had written to Mr P to confirm that 
the information it had provided in that letter was incorrect. Since then ReAssure has 
confirmed to us that all the information provided to Mr P since October 2022 has been 
manually calculated and is correct. It accepts that some earlier information might not have 
included all the bonusses Mr P had earned. Although I will comment more generally in this 
decision about the valuations provided to Mr P, I dont intend to deal specifically with the 
letter that was issued in July 2022. That didnt form part of the complaint Mr P referred to us, 
and that ReAssure responded to, and so isnt something I should deal with here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The matters that form this complaint have involved three regulated firms. ReAssure, Mr Ps 
first financial advisor, and the firm he used once it became clear that regulated advice was 
needed on the transfer. But the complaint only relates to the actions of ReAssure, so my 
findings will be limited to that firm alone. Should Mr P have any concerns about the way in 
which his financial advisors have dealt with his requests, he would need to make additional 
complaints to those firms.
I will first deal with the differences between the valuations provided to Mr P in July and 
September 2021.
Mr Ps pension plan provides him with guaranteed benefits. By making the agreed 
contributions Mr P is guaranteed to receive a specified annuity when he retires. And that annuity amount has been supplemented by further guaranteed bonusses that have been 
added over the years.
But, given that the relevant legislation allows Mr P to transfer those pension benefits to 
another provider, ReAssure is required to provide Mr P with an equivalent cash value of his 
pension savings. Deriving that value is far more complex than if Mr P simply held normal 
pension investments whose value could be determined from market valuations. Instead 
ReAssure needs to calculate the equivalent cost, on the open market, of providing the 
guaranteed annuity to Mr P. That means that the transfer value of his pension savings wont 
always move in line with investment performance  instead it will be influenced by the cost of 
purchasing annuities.
There was a significant difference between valuations that were provided to Mr P in July and 
September 2021. I can understand why that difference would lead him to question ReAssure 
and ask for reassurance that his pension benefits had been fairly assessed. And I share our 
investigators disappointment that ReAssure doesnt appear to have provided a timely 
answer to Mr Ps understandable questions. And I have no doubts that more recent matters 
have caused Mr P further concerns about ReAssures ability to fairly assess his pension 
transfer value.
ReAssure has provided us with comparative valuations of Mr Ps pension savings over a 
number of months. From those it is clear that the valuation it provided in July 2021 is out of 
line. And so I accept ReAssures assertion that the July 2021 information was provided in 
error. Although I have no way of performing any independent analysis of the correct value of 
Mr Ps pension benefits, I am satisfied that, given the greater scrutiny applied by ReAssure, 
it is likely that the more recent valuations provided to Mr P are correct.
There is no doubt that Mr P would have been disappointed to learn, in September 2021, the 
true transfer value of his pension savings. But given he was not at that time in any position to 
proceed with the transfer, I havent seen anything that makes me think he had taken any 
irrevocable decisions based on the incorrect information. So I dont think that the incorrect 
information sent to Mr P in July 2021 has caused him any financial loss.
I am satisfied that Mr Ps pension savings meet the regulatory definition of safeguarded 
benefits. Specifically, in the language of the regulations, they provide a promised level of 
income (or guaranteed minimum level of income) calculated by reference to the contributions 
or premiums paid by or in respect of the member. So, before transferring his pension 
savings to another provider, Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 and regulations 
made under it require Mr P to take appropriate independent advice from an FCA authorised
Adviser, since his safeguarded benefits exceed £30,000.
It would likely have been disappointing for Mr P that his original financial advisor failed to 
identify that requirement before it started to assist him with the proposed transfer. Had it 
done so, Mr P might have been able to seek regulated advice from the other firm a little 
sooner. But I dont think that was the fault of ReAssure. I think that the information it sent out 
clearly defined the form of the benefits that it would pay to Mr P when he retired. It was for 
the professional financial advisor to seek additional information about the policy if it was 
unclear about the benefits that were being paid.
Since Mr P has made his complaint his new financial advisor has continued to request, and 
receive, information from ReAssure. To date, that information doesnt appear to have led to 
Mr P being provided with the necessary regulated advice that would allow him to proceed 
with his transfer request. So I cannot reasonably conclude that Mr P has been delayed in 
transferring his pension benefits by any shortcomings in the timeliness of ReAssures 
responses.But, Mr P and his financial advisor, do have a reasonable expectation that ReAssure will 
respond promptly and accurately to their requests. ReAssure has said that its aim is to 
provide any information that is requested within ten working days. It seems to me, from the 
timeline that ReAssure has produced, that target was not met on the majority of occasions 
that information was requested.
So overall, Im not persuaded that any failings by ReAssure have caused the transfer of 
Mr Ps pension benefits to be delayed. But I am satisfied that some information could have 
been provided more quickly, and with greater accuracy. It is likely that those problems will 
have caused some inconvenience to Mr P. So Im directing, like our investigator, that 
ReAssure should pay Mr P the sum of £250 for the inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mr Ps complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman