DRN-4286023
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their original mortgage in 1980 and did not buy PPI at that time. It 
was in 1991 that they were sold PPI alongside a further advance on the mortgage. Although 
it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover Mr M. 
Nationwide didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold. However, it did offer a refund of 
premiums to the value of £53.49 due to Mr and Mrs M being slightly over-insured.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know they had PPI, meaning it was added without their 
knowledge or consent. But they say they did know they had a policy that covered sickness 
and unemployment but didnt think that was the same as PPI. I can confirm that the 
mortgage PPI protected their monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So I think its likely they knew they had the payment protection insurance but 
just didnt know it was referred to as PPI.
They say that if they had known about the policy, they would have used it on at least one 
occasion. Nationwide has provided information that Mr M requested a claim form in 2003, 
although it doesnt look like he went on to make a claim at that time. But requesting the claim 
form demonstrates an awareness of the policy.
Mr and Mrs M took out the policy in 1991, after the mortgage had been running for a number 
of years. So I doubt theyd have thought that it was a condition of the lending.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process at the time, the policy would normally 
have been presented as optional. And I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs M have said. Ive no doubt that they have 
provided their honest recollection of events. However, the sale was a long time ago and so it 
wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded.
On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs M probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
As this was a non-advised sale, Nationwide didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs M. But it did need to provide sufficient information about the policy for them to be 
able to make an informed choice about whether or not it was right for them.
I think they would have known something about the PPI  that it would cover their mortgage 
repayments if Mr M was unable to work  because I doubt theyd have decided to buy it 
without knowing anything at all about it. And I also doubt theyd have thought it was free.
 
Mr and Mrs M say they cant remember seeing a cost for PPI on their mortgage account, so 
it must have been a hidden charge. Again, it was a long time ago and I wouldnt expect them 
to recall details of a mortgage that was redeemed in 2003. I can confirm that Ive seen their 
mortgage statements for the period 1999 to 2000 and each of the three annual statements 
sets out the PPI charge for that year and what the monthly cost will be in the following year.
Mr M would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr M would have received full 
pay for. They say that their parents would have helped out financially. But having the policy 
would have avoided the need to ask family to pay their mortgage for them.
Overall, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. So, they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do 
not uphold the complaint.
I consider that the part-refund of premiums for being slightly over-insured was a fair and 
reasonable response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman