DRN-3659582
The complaint
Mr D1 complains about the premiums that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) charged for his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund. Mr D1 is 
represented in this matter by his son, Mr D2.
What happened
Mr D1 said NFU didnt remove Mr D2 as a named driver on his policy from 2004. So he has 
been paying for this cost unnecessarily. Hes also unhappy that his cars value is incorrect 
and feels that this may influence his premiums. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. NFUs records are 
only available from 2009 onwards. But she saw that Mr D2 has always been on the policy as 
a named driver. She thought Mr D1 could have removed him at renewal if he wished. But 
she couldnt see that Mr D1 had asked NFU to do this. She thought the cars value wouldnt 
affect the premiums as it was less than the market value limit provided by the policy.
Mr D2 replied that they had asked for him to be removed from the policy. He said Mr D1 had 
difficulties reading English. Mr D2 asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D2 said Mr D1 asked NFU to remove him as a named driver on the policy in 2004 when 
he obtained his own car. He said NFU agreed to do this at the next renewal. I dont doubt 
what Mr D2 says. But, unfortunately, NFU isnt able to provide records from that time. And I 
dont think this is unreasonable. So theres no evidence available to show me what 
happened in 2004. But NFU has provided its records from 2009 onwards. 
I can see that at each renewal the Statement of Insurance includes Mr D2 as a named 
driver. NFU asked Mr D1 to check that his information was correct and contact it to make 
any changes. Mr D1 contacted NFU three times at renewal between 2014 and 2020, but I 
cant see that he asked for Mr D2 to be removed from the policy. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mr D1 to check his documents. He would then have noticed 
that Mr D2 was still on the policy and he could have asked NFU to remove him. So I have no 
evidence to show that NFU did anything wrong by keeping Mr D2 on the policy. And so I 
dont require NFU to pay Mr D1 any refund. 
Mr D2 said they were recently told that the cars value on the policy was £9,000 when it was 
only worth £500. NFU said that it didnt have any record of the cars value. It said the policy 
provides for the cars market value or a limit of £75,000, whichever is less. And I can see 
that the Statement of Insurance says that the cars estimated value is Market Value not 
exceeding £75,000. So Im satisfied that the cars value hasnt affected the premiums 
charged. 
Mr D2 said his father had complained about the high premium price often and NFU should 
have taken him through all the policy details. I can see that NFU changed his voluntary 
policy excess, reduced his mileage and amended his occupation when he visited NFUs 
offices. But I cant see that Mr D1 asked for Mr D2 to be removed from his policy. So I cant 
say that NFU did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman