DRN-3660133
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) declined his claim on his income 
protection policy.
Mr A is being represented by a third party on this complaint. 
What happened
Mr A took out an income protection policy in October 1994. ReAssure is the underwriter on 
the policy.
In September 2010, Mr A was suffering from sciatica and stopped working due to the pain 
and also due to his mental health. In February 2011, he submitted a claim on his income 
protection policy with ReAssure. It requested Mr As medical records, further information 
regarding Mr As companies as he was a director of these. This further information included 
company accounts, tax returns and state benefits. ReAssure also asked Mr A to undertake 
and provide an independent medical examination (IME). 
Unhappy with ReAssures handling of the claim, Mr A brought a complaint to this service in 
2013. A decision was issued which said that the requests for information that ReAssure had 
asked for, were reasonable and were required in order for the claim to be appropriately 
reviewed.
Ive provided a summary timeline of what happened over the last few years since 2013 as 
follows:
Mr A agreed to provide ReAssure with the information and to undertake an IME.
In January 2015, Mr A provided ReAssure with the information it had requested.
In April 2015, Mr A sent ReAssure the IME.
ReAssure assessed Mr As claim and said it didnt think he had met the requirements 
of the policy terms and conditions under the definition of incapacity. It also said 
based on the medical evidence he had provided up to that point and the fact that he 
hadnt provided all the requested information, the claim was declined. 
A second IME was carried out in January 2016 which was reviewed by ReAssure. It 
confirmed to Mr A that the second IME had not changed its decision to decline the 
claim.
Mr A made a further complaint to ReAssure and to this service. Our service 
concluded that the information requested by ReAssure was reasonable. Mr A 
accepted the findings and said he would provide the information requested.
Further communication and information took place between ReAssure and Mr A from 
2018 and until 2020. ReAssure continued to decline the claim initially made and no 
resolution was reached. 
In May 2021, made a further complaint to ReAssure. He said he was unhappy with 
repeated requests for information and said he had provided everything it had 
requested. Hes also unhappy with how the claim has been handled and that it was 
declined. 
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into whether the claim 
had been declined fairly and this wasnt a complaint that was looked at previously. She didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said shed considered all the information provided by both parties 
along with the terms and conditions of the policy and, based on all of this, she didnt think 
ReAssure had declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Mr As representative provided a response to our investigator and said, in summary, the 
following:
The investigator accepts that Mr A's GP provided sick notes during the deferred 
period due to his anxiety and depression, but she does not believe that this alone 
would demonstrate that he complied with the criterion of incapacity. A qualified and 
registered medical expert, Mr As GP, has clearly determined that he was and is unfit 
to work.
The investigator also acknowledged that Mr A was finally sent to (Improving Access 
to Psychological Therapies (IAPT), thus he would argue that Mr As GP did believe 
his condition was severe enough for specialised care. However, weve immediately 
come to the conclusion that Mr A didnt feel the need for specialised care because 
there were no follow-up appointments. Mr A tried unsuccessfully to schedule 
appointments with the IAPT. Mr A repeatedly phoned them only to be told that there 
was a large waiting list, which eventually caused him to experience more melancholy. 
However, we neglected to take into account that Mr A may not be receiving therapy 
for a number of reasons. It is commonly known that people with mental illnesses do 
not seek treatment for a variety of reasons, including stigma, the difficulty of their 
symptoms, practical concerns, and dread of the process, to name a few.
He believes we have made assumptions that are solely subjective and lack an 
objective viewpoint. The fact that Mr A had a medical diagnosis, was deemed unfit to 
work, received treatment for his condition, and was given sick notes to verify his 
incapacity are tangible evidences of his illnesses and that is what really matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Additionally, I appreciate Mr A feels strongly about how the claim has been assessed. I can
also see hes taken the time to provide comprehensive information to us. So, Id like toreassure him that I have read all his submissions. And although I wont be responding to 
each and every point, Im not in any way demeaning his responses and submissions.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr As income protection policy as this 
forms the basis of his insurance contract with ReAssure.
I can see firstly that the deferred period on the policy is three months. This means his policy 
would pay a benefit after the deferred period of three months in the event that Mr A was 
incapacitated or disabled as defined in the policy terms and conditions. 
Incapacity is defined as follows:
disabled shall mean:
generally  during the first 24 months of disability, including the deferred period, 
unable to perform any part of duties of the occupation in which the life assured was 
engaged immediately before the onset of the disability (or any part of any of them if 
the life assured was engaged in more than one occupation at that time) and 
thereafter. If the disability continues for more than 24 months, unable to follow any 
gainful occupation.
In other words, for the claim to be successful, Mr A needed to provide medical evidence to 
show he couldnt fulfil his own occupation due to his back pain or depression, throughout the 
deferred period and beyond that for 24 months. And, if the disability continued for more than 
24 months, Mr A also needed to demonstrate that he couldnt fulfil his own occupation and 
any other gainful occupation due to his illness, for the claim to continue to be paid.
I note the deferred period was from 25 October 2010 until 25 January 2011. Both parties 
have provided evidence and additionally Ive considered the medical evidence for what 
occurred throughout the deferred period and beyond.  My role is not to provide a medical 
opinion but to decide, based on all the evidence available, whether the claim should have 
been declined, whether it was in line with the policy terms and conditions and whether Mr A 
had been treated fairly and reasonably. 
Should the claim be declined?
Its not in dispute that Mr A was suffering from back pain and also depression. However, 
what is in dispute is that Mr A hasnt been able to evidence that he was incapacitated as per 
the definition this in the policy. That is, throughout the deferred period and beyond.
Ive therefore firstly looked at all the medical records. Those being the GP records, the 
March 2011 referral to a neurosurgeon and the two IMEs carried out in 2015 and 2016. 
The GP records show in April and May 2010, Mr A was signed off from work for a few weeks 
and by June 2010, he was reported to have made an improvement and coping well at work. 
In October 2010, he was signed off again for four weeks because of stress. After the 
deferred period, in February 2011, Mr A reported that he was suffering with depression and 
pain again and his GP referred him to a neurosurgeon. The neurosurgeon saw Mr A in 
March 2011 and said he had a slipped disc. He had a microdiscectomy and was discharged 
on 28 March 2011. Theres a record by the neurosurgeon that Mr A had improved symptoms 
and was no longer taking medication to manage the pain. Based on this information, I cant 
see evidence which prevented Mr A from working throughout the deferred period and that he 
was incapacitated throughout this period which prevented him from carrying out his own occupation. I appreciate that he had to have a procedure on his back due to a slipped disc 
and that he was suffering from depression. But theres no evidence this happened 
throughout the deferred period and beyond which meant that he couldnt carry out the work 
of his own occupation throughout. Theres no evidence of this for either his back problems or 
for his mental health.
I note that there are inconsistencies between the sick notes recorded on his GP records and 
those provided to his employer. Those provided to his employer dont match those on the 
GP records. I can see that Mr A was signed off from work due to stress on 25 October 2010 
for four weeks. And looking at the notes provided to the employer, he was signed off for the 
whole deferred period. However, none of these evidences why Mr A was unable to fulfil the 
duties of his own occupation due to his pain or depression. So even though there are 
inconsistencies between the sick notes, there still isnt sufficient evidence explaining why 
Mr A couldnt carry out his work on his own occupation during that time. 
Ive also been presented with further assessments carried out in the form of IMEs and I have 
to consider those. Ive carefully considered both reports. 
The first IME in 2015 said it was reasonable to consider Mr A to have been unable to 
perform any part of the duties of his occupations for a period of a month or two. It also said 
there was no clear evidence to show Mr A was medically unable to perform any part of his 
duties following the time he had off from work. I note the report was a comprehensive, and 
detailed assessment of Mr As ability to work. It considered medical information that had 
been provided and this had been shown to have been taken into account as part of the 
assessment. 
In contrast, the second IME in 2016 doesnt have the same level of detail and doesnt 
address the issue on whether he meets the policy definition of incapacity in relation to the 
claim. This report does acknowledge the medical issues Mr A has had but doesnt go as far 
as explaining how those symptoms prevented Mr A in carrying out the duties of his own 
occupation for the whole of the deferred period and beyond. The report doesnt provide 
evidence of Mr As incapacity in line with the definition in the policy. Theres also no 
evidence shown on what clinical records were considered during the assessment or the 
inconsistencies in the medical records. The IME shows Mr A as self-reporting the issues he 
faced with his health.
While both are IMEs, the information within the 2015 report suggests to me, on balance, that 
there was no medical reason for Mr A not to perform the duties of his own occupation 
following the time he had off work. 
Ive also considered the additional information thats been provided to me. That is, Mr A had 
a number of companies that he was a director of during the period and in July 2011, there 
was an altercation with a colleague at work. Ive considered this because, for the claim to be 
successful, Mr A would need to show that he was incapacitated or disabled throughout the 
deferred period and beyond for 24 months. Being a director of more than one company and 
evidence suggesting he was at work in July 2011 adds further weight to the reasons as to 
why the claim would have been declined. 
I acknowledge Mr As comments that his GP (as a qualified medical practitioner) signed off 
Mr A for his sciatica and his depression. I also acknowledge that Mr A might very well have 
made attempts to get in touch about his IAPT. I dont dispute this. And, Im not demeaning 
the fact that Mr A suffered with back problems and sciatica as I appreciate it must have been 
a difficult time for him. However, its not enough for the purposes of his claim to have shown 
he had been signed off by a GP or attempted to get in touch regarding the therapy treatment 
or had reasons why he might not have been able to do so such as stigma. Medical evidence in addition to the GP records as well as any referrals that were made have been considered. 
But, simply put, the overall evidence, on balance, doesnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity or disabled in order for the claim to be accepted.
Conclusion
Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably make ReAssure responsible for a claim 
when the evidence provided doesnt meet the definition of incapacity under the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Ive considered Mr As medical records and the medical evidence available doesnt support 
his inability to perform his occupation for over three consecutive months and beyond. 
Therefore, I dont think the definition of incapacity has been met and Im not persuaded the 
claim has been declined outside of the terms and conditions of the policy or that Mr A has 
been treated unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require ReAssure to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman