DRN-2339880
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a legal expenses 
claim he made under his commercial landlord policy.
Any reference I make to UKI includes that of the company that manages and administers its 
legal expenses policies unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ive summarised events.
Mr K is the freeholder of a property. This property is let on a long-term residential 
lease agreement with Person A. 
Mr K took out an insurance policy in February 2018 with Company A. He added legal 
cover shortly after in 12 April 2018. 
Mr K says he took out a policy with UKI on 16 April 2018 as he wanted a better 
policy. He says he believed hed cancelled the Company A cover but hadnt.
On 15 July 2018 Mr K says damage occurred to his property which was alleged to be 
inflicted by the tenant of the building.  He said at this time he discovered the property 
needed maintenance work. 
Mr K initially attempted to claim for criminal damage to the property but this was 
declined. He then sought to make a separate claim to UKI on 25 July 2019 for lack of 
maintenance to the property as he said the leaseholder had failed to meet the terms 
of the lease.
UKI provided a final response in January 2020. It said the claim had been made 
within the first 90 days of cover. And it wouldnt consider a claim within 90 days 
unless there was continuous equivalent legal expenses cover in place prior. And 
following some back and forth between the parties about previous cover it 
established the Company A policy had been live at the time of the claim  so it 
referred him to Company A. UKI did apologise for delays in responding and offered to 
pay him £200 compensation as a result.
Mr K approached Company A and it declined the claim as it said maintenance didnt 
fall within any of the operative clauses under the policy, and that he had failed to 
notify it of the claim within 180 days of becoming aware as he shouldve done.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. He said Person A hadnt maintained the 
property, and failed to pay ground rent for three years. He argued he had equivalent 
cover prior to taking cover with UKI, so the 90 day timeframe wasnt relevant. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt it was most likely Mr K had been 
aware of the maintenance issues within the 90 days. He referenced a letter from 
Person As solicitor which indicated the issues about maintenance couldve been 
raised as early as January 2018 (Mr K denies receiving this letter). He also said a 
letter from Mr Ks own solicitors from January 2019, referenced a dispute over 
maintenance from approximately two years prior.
The investigator said the previous policy with Company A wasnt equivalent legal 
expenses and specifically didnt provide like-for-like cover in a number of areas 
including dilapidations and maintenance. He also referred to Mr K having said he 
took the policy out because it offered better cover. The investigator concluded the 
exclusion was applied fairly and the £200 was fair and reasonable compensation in 
the circumstances.
Mr K agreed the level of cover between policies was different and therefore wasnt 
continuous. But he disagreed that hed known about the maintenance issues before 
15 July 2018 and said the fact it was reported on the 91st day was coincidental. This 
didnt change the investigators mind, and he said in light of the value of monies 
owed in question (between £500 - £1,000) it was unlikely to be proportionate to 
pursue even if there had been prospects of success.
Another investigator also considered the complaint  she also didnt uphold it. She 
said the evidence available suggested Mr K was aware prior to the 91st day as he 
had outlined. But she said in any case this point was irrelevant as the date of the 
originating cause leading to the rise of the claim was around 2016  and Mr K had no 
commercial legal expenses cover in place at the time.
Mr K disagreed. He said November 2018 was when the maintenance issues were 
raised to him. And Person As solicitors never wrote to him in January 2018 despite 
reference to it within a later letter. He said as the claim was made on day 91 the 
policy should cover his claim and reiterated that this only came to light sometime 
after the criminal damage.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive been asked to consider whether UKI fairly considered and declined the claim Mr K made 
under his policy in relation to maintenance of his property. 
Mr Ks policy includes cover for disputes arising from a breach or alleged breach of the 
tenancy agreement which relates to the use or maintenance of the premises, and disputes 
relating to dilapidations to the premises. Mr Ks claim concerns a dispute of this nature, so it 
is potentially covered unless UKI can show theres an exclusion that applies to the claim.
The policy includes an exclusion that says:
Unless equivalent legal expenses insurance was continuously in force immediately prior to 
commencement of cover under this Section, any claim where the originating cause of action 
arises within 90 days of the start of this cover.
It is under this exclusion that UKI declined his claim. Mr K has since accepted that his level 
of cover under the previous policy means that he didnt have equivalent legal expenses 
cover in place. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether the originating cause of action happened within 90 days 
of the start of the cover. Mr K took out his policy on 16 April 2018. And he previously has said he became aware of 
the maintenance issues at the time of a criminal incident at the property on 15 July 2018  
including within his initial complaint form submission to this service. There is exactly 90 days 
between these two dates. On the face of it, it seems Mr K was aware of the maintenance 
issue within the 90-day timeframe.
However, as our investigator has outlined, the key phrase here is originating cause of action. 
So, Ive thought about when the originating cause of action took place.
The phrase originating cause of action isnt defined in the policy terms. Where a term isnt 
defined, the usual approach is that words must be given their ordinary meaning and reflect 
the intention of the parties and the commercial sense of the agreement.  In this context, I 
think originating cause of action would mean the events that would form the basis of Mr Ks 
claim against the lessee.
Having read through the back and forth between solicitors, Ive seen a letter from January 
2019 written by Mr Ks solicitor that references issues of maintenance occurring 
approximately 2 years ago  This suggests to me that these issues were ongoing for 
some time. 
Mr K says although his solicitors correspondence refers to issues going back a while, he 
wasnt aware of them until November 2018 when maintenance issues were raised. He says 
at this time, he had spoken to the occupier who told him the guttering was damaged by the 
leaseholder approximately two years earlier. Ive considered this carefully, however it seems 
this account conflicts with the other evidence Ive seen, including Mr Ks own initial 
submission to this service that Ive referenced above. So, while Ive taken on board his 
version of events, it hasnt persuaded me  on balance  that he wasnt aware of the 
maintenance issue until November 2018 as hes described. 
Ive also been given a letter from Person As solicitors dated 5 November 2019. This letter 
references having sent an earlier letter to Mr K on 26 January 2018 concerning difficulties 
that our client had experienced with you surrounding various breaches of your obligations 
under the Lease for the flat I think this also suggests the matters were ongoing. I 
understand Mr K disputes receiving this referenced letter, and Ive not been given a copy of 
the January 2018 letter so Ive placed less weight on this evidence.
Taking all of these points into account, and given the nature of the dispute (a lack of 
maintenance over time) it seems clear to me that this matter was ongoing for some time. 
And for this reason, Im persuaded the originating cause of action more likely than not did 
not take place within 90 days of start of cover. In turn, Im satisfied that UKI has declined the 
claim fairly and in line with its policy terms.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman