DRN-4275746
Complaint
Mr J has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Live Lend) provided him 
with an unaffordable loan. 
He says he doesnt believe that adequate affordability checks were carried out, as this loan 
was unaffordable.  
Background
Live Lend provided Mr J with a loan of £10,000.00 in September 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 16.3% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£14,262.25, including interest, fees and charges of £4,262.25, was due to be repaid in 59 
monthly instalments of £237.70 followed by a final instalment of £237.95. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Live Lend unfairly 
provided this loan to Mr J as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. 
Live Lend disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Js complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Live Lend complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that    
Mr J would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Live Lend act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Live Lend complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would 
be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Live Lend provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Live Lend to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Live Lend had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr J. In practice this 
meant that Live Lend had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause         
Mr J undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Live Lend to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Live Lends checks reasonable and proportionate?
Live Lend says that it asked Mr J for some information on his income and expenditure prior 
to providing him with this loan. It says also carried out a credit check which validated some 
of what Mr J had declared. 
Mr J declared that he was self-employed with monthly earnings of just under £3,600.00. This 
declaration was electronically cross-checked against information showing how much Mr Js 
bank account received each month. And Live Lend also took account of Mr Js existing credit commitments, asked him about his housing costs and using all of this information 
determined that Mr J would end up having in excess of £2,200.00 in disposable income left 
over each month. 
Ive carefully considered what Live Lend has said. And I know it disagreed with our 
investigators view that it ought to have known about Mr Js indebtedness given its credit 
searches as, for whatever reason, the credit search didnt link accounts registered to a 
previous address. 
Nonetheless, Live Lend was providing Mr J with £10,000.00 and this was to be repaid over 
five years. I note that Mr J had said that he was self employed with declared earnings of 
£3,600.00 a month. But given the amount borrowed, the term of the loan and most 
importantly the income of the self-employed can vary, I think that Live Lend needed to take 
steps to verify that Mr J did receive £3,600.00. 
I know Live Lend considered that it did verify Mr Js income. But I dont think that cross 
checking Mr Js bank account received this much each month  which would include all 
credits going in  is the same as actually verifying his monthly income. 
Im also concerned that Live Lend appears to have accepted at face value that Mr J had no 
existing credit commitments and a monthly disposable income of £2,200.00, even though he 
had an apparent want or need to borrow on such disadvantageous terms.  
To be clear its not the plausibility of the disposable income on its own that leads me to think 
Live Lend needed to do more. Its the combination of this together with the figure arrived at 
being based on an unverified declaration of self-employed income that persuades me it was 
incumbent on Live Lend to carry out further income checks in this particular instance.
As I cant see that this Live Lend did take further steps to verify Mr Js income, I dont think 
that the checks it carried out before providing Mr J with his loan were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Live Lend that Mr J would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told Live Lend that Mr J would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Live Lend was required to establish whether Mr J could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered what information Mr J could have been asked for in order to support 
his income declaration  after all he is unlikely to have been able to provide payslips in the 
same way that an employed person might. As Live Lend relied on the amounts going into  
Mr Js bank account as being his income, I dont think it is unreasonable to look at the bank 
account transactions to see what was going in and where these funds were coming from. 
Ive therefore considered all of the information provided with a view to establishing what the 
credit into Mr Js account were made up of. Having done so, its clear that Mr Js earnings 
were being supplemented by loans from unsustainable sources and gambling winnings. And 
this is the reason why Live Lends information showed the credits it did. So, notwithstanding the fact that Live Lend might not have been aware of the full extent of 
Mr Js indebtedness, I think that proportionate checks into Mr Js income would have shown 
Live Lend that Mr J was unlikely to be able to repay this loan without borrowing further or 
suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr J would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. 
And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have alerted Live Lend to the fact that Mr J was in no sort of position to make 
the payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Live Lend act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Live Lend acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way. So 
I dont think Live Lend acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way.
Did Mr J lose out as a result of Live Lend unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr J paid and is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt 
have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Live Lend did 
wrong.
So I think that Live Lend needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Live Lend needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having thought about everything, Live Lend should put things right for Mr J by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr J made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£10,000.00 originally lent. If Mr J has already repaid more than £10,000.00 then Live 
Lend should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr J;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr J to the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Live Lend recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Js credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Live Lend to take off tax from this interest. Live Lend 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Live Lend of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have 
been made to the account and its the case that Mr J is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Chetwood Financial Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman