DRN-2500582
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about Aviva Life & Pensions UK because it declined to pay a claim 
on his critical illness insurance.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr P applied for a decreasing term life and critical illness insurance 
policy with Aviva. The application was accepted and a 35-year policy providing cover 
starting at £146,000 was set up. The policy was designed to pay out on Mr Ps death or 
if he suffered from one of a specified range of serious illnesses.
Sadly, Mr P was diagnosed with cancer later in 2019. But when he claimed for the critical 
illness benefit on his policy, Aviva didnt pay out because it said he hadnt provided 
relevant information in his application. It cancelled the policy and refunded the premiums 
paid.
I issued my provisional decision dated 1 December 2020 explaining why I didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld. In short, I thought Mr P should have disclosed details of a 
previous scan from which he was awaiting results in answers to the questions on Avivas 
application. If hed done so, I was satisfied it wouldnt have covered him and that it was 
therefore entitled to decline his claim.
Neither party has made further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither party had anything to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr P and leaves him in a 
difficult position. But for the reasons I explained, I dont think I can reasonably conclude 
Aviva should pay out on a policy it wouldnt have otherwise offered.
Im aware Mr P has attempted to contact his consultant for further comments that he thought 
would help with his complaint but no further evidence has been provided to date. If Mr P 
does obtain new evidence in the future that he thinks would lead to a different conclusion, he 
should forward this to Aviva in the first instance. If hes not satisfied with its response, he 
may then be able refer everything back to us as a new complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
James Biles
Ombudsman