DRN-1294389
The complaint
Mrs P complained that London General Insurance Company turned down her claim after her 
laptop was accidentally damaged. 
What happened
Mrs P had an Added Care for Small Appliances and Technology insurance policy that was 
underwritten by London General.  
Mrs P contacted London General on 10 April 2019 to let it know her laptop had suffered 
accidental damage when her young child dropped it. The screen was broken, but the laptop 
still worked. London General arranged to have the laptop collected on 15 April 2019 by one 
of its authorised repairers. After inspecting the laptop on around 23 April 2019, the repairers 
said the laptop had suffered external heat damage, smelt of burning plastic and the bottom 
of the laptop was warped as a result of the heat damage. The repairers said the laptop was 
not working. 
London General contacted Mrs P to discuss the damage and she informed it that the laptop 
had not been placed on a hot surface and she wasnt aware of any heat damage. She told it 
that after dropping the laptop she turned it on for an hour or so to back up data before it got 
collected. Mrs P also took a photograph of the damaged screen that showed the laptop was 
working at that point, which she provided to London General.
London General contacted the repairers to see if the damage could have been caused by 
something other than the laptop being placed on a hot surface. It asked if the laptop battery 
could have overheated after the laptop was dropped. The repairers said the damage is on 
the outside of the laptop and so is not restricted to the battery. The repairers said the laptop 
is not working because of external heat damage. 
London General then turned down Mrs Ps claim as it said the description of the damage she 
provided when she made the claim was different to the actual damage that the laptop had 
sustained. 
Mrs P complained and London General responded in May 2019. It said it appreciated that 
Mrs P was able to use her laptop prior to it being collected and had provided images to 
prove this, but when it arrived at the repairer workshop, it was no longer working. And the 
repairers said this was as a result of the heat damage. It reiterated that as the damage 
reported by Mrs P did not match the condition of the laptop when it arrived at the repairer 
workshop, it didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Mrs P was unhappy with the response from London General and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ps complaint. She said the policy defines accidental damage 
as: 
damage resulting from an unforeseen and sudden incident, which is accidental in nature.
Having heard Mrs Ps account and seen the photographs shed taken of her laptop, and 
seeing the comments made by the complaint handler, which acknowledged the laptop 
showed signs of accidental damage, our investigator was satisfied Mrs P did what was 
required of her to show accidental damage had occurred. 
Our investigator said the onus is then on the insurer to show why the claim isnt covered. 
She said the business declined it because the description of the damage didnt match the 
condition of the laptop. But she thought there wasnt enough evidence to say the damage 
wasnt caused by the incident described by Mrs P at the start of the claim. 
Our investigator looked at the fact that the repairers said the laptop suffered heat damage 
and was no longer working when they received it. But Mrs P has provided photographic 
evidence to show it was working after the accident and before it was collected. So the 
investigator didnt think heat damage has affected the claim. Our investigator asked London 
General to process the claim under the terms of the policy, and pay compensation of £100 to 
Mrs P for the inconvenience of being left without a laptop since the start of the claim. 
London General was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint. 
To summarise, Mrs P made a claim to London General when her laptop screen was 
accidentally broken. London General arranged for it to be collected by a courier and taken to 
its repairer. When it was opened five days later, the laptop also showed signs of heat 
damage and was no longer working. When asked, Mrs P said she didnt know how the heat 
damage occurred, as the only damage she was aware of is the broken screen. Mrs P 
provided photographic evidence to show the laptop still worked after the screen was broken. 
The repairers assessed the damage to the laptop and concluded it wasnt working because 
of the heat damage. They suggested the laptop might have been placed on a hot surface. 
London General then declined the claim because the actual damage to the laptop was 
greater than the damage reported by Mrs P when she made the claim. 
My role is the decide whether London General acted fairly when it did this. And Im satisfied 
it didnt. Ill explain why. 
I want to first of all outline the approach this service takes with complaints of this type, which 
is that its not enough for an insurer to decline a claim because of a discrepancy between 
how the damage to an item was described by the policyholder at the time the claim was 
made, and the actual extent of the damage when its assessed by the insurers. In a situation 
like this, the insurer should only decline the claim if it can show the policyholder might have 
gained in some way by either exaggerating or understating the damage when making the 
claim. But if the claim would always have been met, irrespective of how the damage was 
described, then the claim should be settled. 
With this in mind, I asked London General whether or not Mrs Ps claim would have been 
settled if both the heat and impact damage had been reported to it when Mrs P submitted 
her claim. London General said Mrs Ps policy contains exclusions and it needs to be sure 
that none of these apply. It said it needs to be certain that the damage happened 
accidentally so that it can rule out malicious damage or neglect. And because Mrs P wasnt able to provide it with a satisfactory explanation of the heat damage, it cant say whether the 
heat damage was accidental and so would have been covered under the terms of the policy.
Its certainly not unreasonable for London General to want to understand the full 
circumstances of how the damage was caused. But, in this case, Mrs P isnt able to account 
for the heat damage and I dont think this, in itself, should mean her claim is declined. When 
asked, London General said that if the heat damage to Mrs Ps laptop was accidental and 
affected how the laptop worked  so was more than cosmetic  then it might well have been 
covered under the policy. 
So from what Ive seen Im satisfied that its unlikely Mrs P would have gained anything by 
understating the damage to her laptop at the point in time she made the claim. I say this 
because heat damage isnt excluded under the policy, only fire damage is, and the heat 
damage has caused the laptop to stop working. So this damage, like the impact damage to 
the screen, is likely to have been covered under the policy, as long as it was caused 
accidentally. So the end result for Mrs P was always going to be the same, namely that she 
would have a working laptop. And this is irrespective of whether the damage to her laptop 
was limited to a broken screen or was both a broken screen and heat damage. 
So, because Im satisfied that its unlikely Mrs P would have gained anything by understating 
the extent of the damage to her laptop, I dont think London General acted fairly when it 
declined her claim just because of the discrepancy between Mrs Ps account of the damage 
to the laptop, and the extent of the damage to the laptop when it was inspected by London 
Generals repairers. 
To put this right, London General should settle Mrs Ps claim, subject to the remaining terms 
of the policy and should pay Mrs P £100 compensation for the inconvenience this has 
caused her. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require London General Insurance 
Company Limited to settle Mrs Ps claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy and to 
pay Mrs P £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman