DRN-4002108
The complaint
Mr M complains about Nationwide Building Societys (Nationwides) decision not to 
progress his chargeback claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I dont think Nationwide have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Nationwide, its administered by Visa, and 
they set the rules. Nationwide didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Ultimately, it would be VISA who decided which side to support in a chargeback claim. We 
don't have authority to challenge how they run their scheme, but I can consider whether 
Nationwide were reasonable in not taking the chargeback to the next stage of arbitration 
when the merchant defended it.
The merchant explained that they would need the failed part back and that theyd be 
prepared to refund Mr M if hed return it. Thats understandable, and normal, as if theres a 
failure of a part the merchant would want to recover the cost of that failed part from their 
supplier.
Unfortunately, Mr M wasnt able to return the failed EGR valve as the main dealer, who had 
subsequently repaired the car, had disposed of it. 
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr M here as it seems the valve was faulty, and his evidence 
suggests its likely he did return the car to the merchant to have them look at that problem. 
But as the merchant dont appear to have been able to diagnose the problem, I dont think 
that was the same as returning the faulty part.
In those circumstances, I dont think Nationwide were unreasonable to decide not to take the 
chargeback any further. That doesnt, of course, prevent Mr M from pursuing his claim 
directly with the merchant, albeit that he may now need to do so through the court process.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman