DRN-4107554
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund £8,507.50 she lost to an 
investment scam in June 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs B has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that she authorised the 
three disputed payments totaling £8,507.50 made from her Wise account between 
22 June 2022 and 19 July 2022. The payments were requested using her legitimate 
security credentials provided by Wise, and the starting position is that firms ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Wise should have done more to prevent Mrs B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mrs B has lost over £8,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. And I dont doubt the impact this has had on her both emotionally and financially. 
But I have to take into account that this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of 
character transaction. It was spread over three separate smaller increments to three 
different payees which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or 
out of character when compared with Mrs Bs previous spending history. The highest 
payment she made as part of the scam was for £4,000, for example, which I dont think 
ought reasonably to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that she might have 
been at risk of financial harm. 
I appreciate that two payments were made to different payees on 19 July 2022. But 
cumulatively, this still only totalled £6,000 which I dont think would have appeared overly 
unusual. And I dont consider these two payments alone are enough to amount to a 
suspicious sequence of payments either, for example, so I dont consider there to have 
been any other indicators of fraud that ought to have been spotted by Wise.
So, having considered the payments Mrs B made, Im not persuaded there was anything 
that ought reasonably to have triggered Wise fraud monitoring systems, or that would 
have indicated she was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also considered whether Wise did enough to try and recover the money after Mrs B 
reported the fraud. The scam payments were sent to other Wise account holders, but 
unfortunately, by the time the fraud was reported on 4 August 2022, no funds remained 
in the beneficiary accounts. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs B, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Wise liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman