DRN-4260398
The complaint
Mr D has complained that he was able to make gambling transactions through his Starling 
Bank Limited (Starling) account despite having a gambling block in place. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr D contacted Starling to say that despite having applied its gambling 
block to his account, he was still able to gamble by transferring funds through a third-party 
payment provider. 
Starling responded to Mr Ds complaint and explained that while the block could be useful 
unfortunately it wasnt guaranteed to work especially when transferring funds to a third party 
before transferring funds on to a gambling website. 
Following this, in December 2022 Mr D contacted Starling again to say that he was still 
gambling and he asked for a specific third party payment provider to be blocked on his 
account. He explained that he had mental health issues and had issues with gambling and 
would like Starling to refund the money he had lost to gambling websites. He also asked for 
further support from Starling. Starling explained that it could not block the website in 
question and as it was not a gambling website the block would not work for that website. It 
also referred him to a specialist team who contacted him in January 2023 and provided 
contact details for places where Mr D could seek further help.
Unhappy with Starlings response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint for him. She found that Starling had applied the block 
properly and she didnt think Starling was responsible for the losses Mr D incurred, so she 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint again and 
so it has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for much the same 
reasons. 
I appreciate that this is a very difficult situation for Mr D and I want to thank him for being so 
honest in his submissions. When a consumer discloses a vulnerability to a business, as 
Mr D has done, we expect that business to treat them fairly and provide them with tailored 
support.
Mr D was able to use his Starling account to gamble despite the block being added to the 
account. Starling has explained why this has happened, but I will repeat the explanation here 
as I agree it is correct.
Gambling blocks work by identifying the merchant category code (MCC) the retailer has 
applied to it. Different types of retailers have different codes, and there is a specific one that 
gambling websites are supposed to use. If a gambling merchant doesnt apply the correct 
code, things like gambling blocks wont work. This is because the algorithm that the block 
relies on is designed to identify the gambling MCC and not any others. So, if a different code 
is used, the algorithm wont pick up on it and the transaction will complete as normal. 
In this instance the merchant in question was not a gambling website and therefore the 
gambling block would not work as the MCC would not be one that related to gambling. Also 
as the transactions in question were not card payments the block would not work.
Unfortunately, this is an issue that impacts gambling blocks, across the financial institutions 
that offer them, and is not unique to Starling. 
So, I cant safely say that its Starlings fault that Mr D was able gamble through his account. 
This is because Mr D has confirmed that he used a third-party payment provider. I 
appreciate that Mr D has issues with gambling. Im not satisfied that there was a failing on 
the part of Starling, I dont think it would be reasonable to direct them to refund the money 
spent to the third-party provider.
I note that Mr D has explained that it was not clear what would and wouldnt be blocked. But 
from what I can see Starling made it clear in its banking app that the block would only block 
card payments to gambling websites and would not work in all situations.  
The next thing I want to address is how Starling responded once it became aware of Mr Ds 
situation. As mentioned above businesses are obliged to offer useful and tailored support to 
vulnerable consumers when they become aware of their vulnerability. When Mr D contacted 
Starling to explain he had issues with gambling and he had mental health issues, and had 
been gambling despite the block being on his account, Starling replied by explaining why the 
block hadnt worked and it asked Mr D if he wanted to speak to someone from its vulnerable 
customer team so he could let it know specifically what sort of help and support he would 
find useful going forward, which I see that Mr D was in contact with in January 2023. I can 
see from the conversation notes that during this contact Mr D was made aware of 
companies that could help with his financial situation and also how he could self-exclude 
directly with gambling companies. I dont think that this was an unreasonable response.
I note that Mr D is unhappy that Starling were unable to specifically block the website he 
asked Starling to, but Starling have confirmed that they are unable to do this and all they can 
do is block all faster payments from the account. My understanding is that this was tried in 
May 2023 and Mr D removed this block himself as he needed some payments to go through. 
So, I dont think that Starling could have come up with an acceptable solution to prevent Mr 
D from gambling.
While Mr D is understandably frustrated and unhappy that the gambling block didnt work in 
his specific circumstance, Im satisfied that Starling did all it could to explain the limitations of 
the block and offer genuine and tailored support to him when it became aware of his issues 
with gambling. And for those reasons Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr D, but I hope he understands the reasoning 
behind my decision. I should add that this decision represents the final stage in our process 
and there is no further recourse to appeal or discuss the merits further. That said Mr D may 
be able to pursue this matter elsewhere such as court if he wishes to do so.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Starling Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman