DRN-1423863
 
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined a claim made on 
their motor insurance policy. They want it to pay the claim and the related costs theyve 
incurred. Mr J is a named driver on Mrs Js policy.
What happened
Mrs J thought shed collided with an animal whilst driving her car and a warning light came 
on. Mrs J continued her trip. Admiral took the car for repairs but when it was returned Mrs J 
noticed engine noise. Admiral had an independent assessor look at the car. He said a new 
engine was needed and the damage was caused by Mrs J driving on after the incident. So 
Admiral declined the claim due to a policy exclusion.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably investigated the claim and was entitled to rely on the policy exclusion to 
decline the claim. 
Mr J replied that the warning light only came on later in Mrs Js trip and she didnt think it 
was connected to the incident. He thought it was perfectly reasonable for Mrs J to drive on 
after the incident. He thought shed hit a small animal. Mr J asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J and Mrs J feel frustrated by Admirals decision. Mr J said that 
they were £18,000 out of pocket because of it as they had to pay for the cars new engine 
and for a solicitors letter to try and persuade Admiral to pay the claim.  
This service doesnt assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is 
a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our 
role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all 
the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Admiral had the car inspected by an independent assessor. I think this is fair and reasonable 
as its what wed expect an insurer to do when theres a dispute over repairs. He concluded 
that the engine had been damaged by being driven on after the incident when the cooling 
system had been damaged. 
Admiral then relied on a policy exclusion to decline the claim. This is set out on page 9 of the 
policy booklet under What is not covered, we will not pay:
Damage caused to your car caused by it being driven after an accident unless it is in the 
interests of safety 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mrs Js representatives thought the exclusion didnt apply because there had been an 
incident, not an accident. But Im not persuaded by this as I think the common 
understanding of accident is an unexpected event causing damage. And this is what Mrs J 
said had happened.   
Mr J said Mrs J had collided with a small animal, which wasnt uncommon on country roads, 
and so she neednt have stopped. He said she wasnt sure that shed hit anything. But I can 
see from the approved repairers photographs that the damage caused to the cars bodywork 
was significant. Also, when Mrs J first notified Admiral about the incident she said shed hit a 
small deer. She said she had no option to avoid it due to ongoing traffic. So, on balance, Im 
not persuaded that Mrs J wasnt aware that she had collided with something large.
Mr J thought the warning light came on later in the trip and so Mrs J wasnt aware of the 
damage caused. But I in the notification phone call that Mrs J made to Admiral she said that 
the warning light came on after the incident. She later said she didnt connect this with the 
incident. But I prefer to rely on what she told Admiral closer to the event as she would then 
have had better recall. 
So, relying on what Mrs J told Admiral the day after the incident, I think she hit a small deer 
and she then saw a warning light come on, but she continued to drive her car.
Mrs Js representatives thought Mrs J had no choice but to drive on as she was alone at the 
time, driving at night on a narrow road. So it said it wasnt safe for Mrs J to stop and so the 
exclusion didnt apply. 
Mrs J hasnt identified exactly whereabouts the incident occurred. So I cant establish 
whether it was safe for her stop at the time. But I can see that she continued her journey and 
then drove home. She said she stopped on the return and saw the extent of the damage. 
She told Admiral the bumper was completely smashed and she was surprised that she was 
able to drag the car home. Mrs J told Admiral she drove for a further 20 to 30 minutes after 
the incident. 
I think Mrs J could have stopped when she reached her destination, which was arguably a 
safe place. And I think she also saw the warning light and so should have checked what had 
happened to her car. So Im not persuaded that Mrs Js continued journey was in the 
interests of safety. 
So I think Admiral has justified its decision that the additional damage to the engine was 
caused by the car being driven on after the incident. I think its entitled to decline Mrs Js 
claim for this repair under the policy exclusion. So I cant say its acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. And I dont require it to pay Mrs Js claim or her other costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman