DRN-3300841
The complaint
Ms M complains Fairmead Insurance Limited has unfairly declined her claim for a rockfall on 
her buildings insurance policy.
Ms M is being represented in bringing this complaint by a family member, but for ease Ive 
referred to all actions and comments as being those of Ms M. 
What happened
Ms M has a property, which was insured by Fairmead, which is situated on a cliff, with a road 
and set of properties underneath. In August 2020 she said she was approached by the 
owner of one of the properties at the bottom of the cliff, they told her there had been a 
rockfall. Ms M made a claim to Fairmead, she said part of the cliff face near her property, 
which she was responsible for, had come away. She thought this had happened after a 
period of bad weather. She told Fairmead shed previously had the cliff reinforced in 2016, at 
her own expense, and a wire netting was in place to protect the cliff face. She wanted the 
insurer to carry out further work to reinforce the cliff to prevent any further damage occurring.
Fairmead assessed the damage under the storm damage section of the policy. One of its 
contractors attended to assess the damage, but Fairmead ultimately declined the claim. It 
said no insured peril had occurred under its policy, as the cliff wasnt insured as part of her 
buildings insurance. It also said that rockfall from the cliff was going to be an ongoing issue 
with weathering and erosion, and this isnt covered by the policy. It thought there might have 
been some damage to the netting covering the cliff face, but didnt think there had been an 
insured event. 
Unhappy with its response, Ms M brought her complaint to our service. She said shed taken 
out insurance with Fairmead as she was under the impression it would cover damage to the 
cliff face, as it was within the boundary of her property. Ms M said she made this clear during 
the sales process and the broker was made aware of what needed to be covered. She said 
cover to the cliff face had been specifically included in her policy as it was bespoke.
Our investigator said she couldnt, as part of this complaint, look at the actions of the broker 
who sold the policy. She considered whether Fairmead had fairly declined the claim, based 
on the policy terms. She thought it had. 
Ms M didnt agree. She felt her claim would come under the insured peril of landslip on her 
policy. She said Fairmead had added the rock face to the definition of buildings as her 
policy was bespoke. 
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case, in it I said:
Ms Ms policy provides her with buildings insurance. The policy defines buildings 
as:
the main structure of the Home together with its domestic Outbuildings walls gates
hedges fences railings paths steps drives patios terraces permanently installed 
swimming pools tennis courts cesspits septic tanks domestic central heating or 
oil/gas tanks fixtures and fittings all of which are situated within the boundaries of the 
land belonging to the Home.
Fairmead has said as cliff doesnt appear on this list, it isnt considered part of Ms 
Ms buildings and so damage to the cliff face isnt covered under the policy. It said 
whilst it was aware Ms M is responsible for the maintenance of the cliff, this doesnt 
mean Fairmead are insuring it. It says the cliff was only material in terms of it 
agreeing to insure Ms Ms home, knowing its location. 
Ms M has argued that when she took out the policy, she was told the cliff, which is 
within the boundary of her property, would also be included in the definition of 
buildings for the purpose of the policy. The policy does cover for fixtures and fittings 
within the boundary of the property, but I dont think a cliff face could be considered 
to be either of those. All of the other listed items are structures which are added to 
land. I dont think this can be interpreted to extend to the cliff face, on which the 
property sits, being insured. 
So Im satisfied that the policy, as standard, wouldnt extend to insure the cliff that Ms 
M says she is responsible for. But Ms M says she was assured the cliff was insured, 
and its noted on her policy schedule as an endorsement. She says the policy was 
bespoke to fit her needs so its now unfair that Fairmead are saying its not covered. 
Ive seen on file an email from Ms Ms broker before the sale, which asks if any cliff 
reinstatement will be included as part of the buildings insurance policy, if the cliff 
were to be damaged. In response, Fairmead said any claim:
 
would be considered  in line with the standard  Crown  insurance  wording  
and any relevant  exclusions  would  apply.  We have  not made  any 
changes  to the wording  in any way,  we have  merely  noted  the Schedule  
to confirm,  as the Insured  requested,  that we are aware  of the location  of 
the cliff.
I accept that the answer here wasnt a straightforward confirmation that the cliff 
wouldnt be covered. But based on the above, I think its clear that whilst Fairmead 
had agreed to insure Ms Ms home even with its cliff location, it didnt say it would 
amend any policy wording to extend the definition of buildings to customise her 
policy so that any damage to the cliff would be insured.
The policy schedule sent to Ms M, says in the notes and endorsements section:
Note: there is a cliff at the rear of the garden of the insured Home for which 
the policyholder is responsible to maintain.Having considered the wording, and the policy, I dont think this wording shows 
Fairmead did agree to amend the definition of buildings to include the cliff. The 
information regarding the cliff isnt an endorsement on the policy, it is a note. So it 
doesnt appear the standard wording of the policy has been altered, as youd 
commonly see with an endorsement. From everything Ive seen, as Ms M used a 
broker during the sale, she didnt have direct contact with Fairmead. So I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Fairmead misled Ms M when she took out the policy.
I accept landslip is an insured peril under the policy as Ms M says. But given the 
above I dont think the damage for which Ms M is claiming  landslip to the cliff face - 
is covered under her buildings insurance policy. So Fairmeads decision to decline 
the claim is fair and reasonable.
When Fairmead attended, there was some discussion as to whether the existing 
netting covering the cliff face was damaged, and whether that would be covered 
under the policy. Ms M has said shes never made a claim for this and disputes there 
is any damage to the netting. So I havent considered this any further as part of this 
complaint.  
Ms M also complained about the time taken to reach the outcome on the claim. I can 
understand Ms M was very anxious about the situation, as she didnt want any further 
rockfall to damage neighbouring properties or cause any injury. Ive looked at the 
timeline from when she made a claim, to receiving the decline. 
Having done so, I dont think Fairmead caused any unreasonable delay. When the 
claim was notified, it asked for some supporting documents and photographs, and a 
site visit was arranged which took place around three weeks after notification. A 
claim decision was then made and communicated around three weeks later. In this 
time there was some discussion between the claims team and the underwriters 
around the scope of cover. Given the unusual nature of the claim, I think the internal 
discussion was unavoidable, but did lead to various parties needing to respond 
before the claim outcome was decided. 
Ms M has argued if the cliff didnt fall under the definition of the policy she could have 
been told much earlier, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Fairmead to want to 
assess the claim fully before reaching its outcome.
Overall, whilst I know it will be very disappointing for Ms M to hear, I dont intend to 
ask Fairmead to do anything differently.Ms M responded. She raised the following points in summary:
I hadnt set out why I couldnt consider the actions of the broker who sold the policy.
I have said the house is on a cliff, but it isnt, it is on a rock mass. A cliff relates to a 
rock face close to water.
The cliff should be considered as a fixture as it is a permanent structure.
The cliff must be included in the cover as the schedule was amended to say its 
within the boundary and the rock face is within the boundary belonging to the land 
and is a permanent structure. 
She hadnt seen the email I referred to between the insurer and the broker before the 
policy was taken out, but it is so unclear that it is almost intentionally misleading. 
She paid an extra premium so that the cliff would be insured.
She has never reported any damage to the meshing on the cliff.
Fairmead didnt provide a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance company in this case isnt the company which sold Ms M the insurance. That 
was done by a broker. Brokers are regulated to sell insurance, so any complaint about the 
sale of the insurance, needs to be investigated against the broker. This is why I havent 
commented on the actions of the broker in this complaint. In this complaint, Im only 
considering the actions of the insurer, and whether its acted fairly in saying the cliff on Ms 
Ms property isnt insured. I appreciate Ms M brought the complaint to us as one, and we 
decided to separate them, but I want to reassure Ms M that this the correct process when 
assessing these type of cases.
Ms Ms said a cliff is a rock face close to water, and what she lives on isnt a cliff, but a rock 
mass. Ive looked up the dictionary definition and it says a cliff is a high steep face of a rock. 
So I think my description is accurate. However, I take Ms Ms point that it could also be said 
her property is on a rock mass as shes said. Either way, I dont think its important to the 
outcome of the complaint, but Ill continue to refer to the drop at the end of her garden as a 
cliff for consistency. 
Ms M has argued the cliff on which her home sits is a permanent structure, and within the 
boundary of her property. So it must be considered a fixture or fitting for the purpose of the 
insurance policy. But I dont agree with that interpretation. Ms Ms policy provides a list of 
structures it considers to be covered, and cliff (or rock mass) isnt on there. A fixture is 
something that has been fixed to the land so as to become part of it. And fittings refers to 
items that arent attached to the property permanently. I dont think a cliff or rock face can be 
described as either of these things. 
I accept Ms M didnt see the email between the broker and the insurer before she took her 
policy out. I can understand that as the broker was setting up the policy for her, it would have 
handled all correspondence. But its important to the outcome of the complaint as it shows to 
me, that the insurance company didnt agree to extend any definition in the policy to make it 
bespoke to Ms Ms needs. I think Ms M has been open and up front about her property, its 
location and what she wanted her insurance to cover. But Im not satisfied, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, that the insurance company - Fairmead - did agree to provide the cover 
she thought it had. Ms M has said Fairmeads response was so unclear it was misleading, 
but I dont agree that it is. It clearly set out that the standard terms of insurance would apply 
to Ms Ms policy. So there was no agreement to alter it. Ive asked Fairmead about the premium it charged Ms M, to see if it did increase it to provide 
extra insurance above what was written in its policy document. It has confirmed that Ms M 
didnt pay any further premium for additional cover. So having considered everything, I think 
Fairmead has acted fairly in declining Ms Ms claim. 
In response to my provisional decision, Ms Ms said she never reported any damage to the 
mesh that covers the cliff face. I accept that she hadnt. It seems Fairmead looked at the 
meshing when considering the claim and it appears, from what Ive seen, that any damage 
to this may be covered under Ms Ms policy. But as Ms M has confirmed it is intact I havent 
considered this further.
Ultimately what I am deciding here is whether Fairmead acted reasonably in declining Ms 
Ms claim to reinforce the cliff on which her property sits. And for the reasons given above, I 
think it has. So Fairmead doesnt need to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Fairmead Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman