DRN-4055652
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr W received a series of payments which were later found to be the 
proceeds of fraud. He quickly withdrew the money in cash or forwarded it on.
Mr W initially said the money was from a friend who owed him, and provided a screenshot of 
a conversation with one of the payers where they agreed to send him money. He said he 
couldnt provide any other messages or context as theyd blocked him. He then claimed hed 
been hacked and lost his card, and someone else mustve been using his account. Starling 
looked into this, but found that Mr W had most likely authorised the outbound payments 
involved himself. They closed his account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Mr W finally said hed been added to a cryptocurrency investing group via a messaging app. 
He thought it looked legitimate and sent them some of his own money to invest. He gave 
them his account number and sort code to send his profits, and clarified that he hadnt given 
anyone his security details or access to his account. Hed thought the money hed been 
receiving was his crypto profits. Hed sent it on because they told him thered been a banking 
system failure and they needed the money back, but had promised a huge return if he 
forwarded on the money. He didnt know any of the people who paid him. He didnt have any 
evidence as he said the investors since removed him from the group and he deleted the app, 
so all the messages were gone.
Starling adjusted the marker to reflect that Mr W may have been acting as a money mule on 
a third partys instructions, rather than directly committing the fraud. But they didnt agree to 
remove the marker entirely. They maintained that Mr W had received and spent fraudulent 
funds, and had no evidence he was entitled to the money.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Starling were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr W had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Starling did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
Starling received a number of official fraud reports from other institutions. This showed that 
the money Mr W had been receiving and spending was not from a friend, nor investments, 
but from victims of fraud whod been deceived into paying him. Mr W then acted very quickly 
to spend this money, meaning it couldnt be recovered.
Ive considered Mr Ws initial testimony  that this money was from a friend who owed him. 
But it came from lots of different people, not one friend. Theres no evidence of him ever 
lending this friend money. Hes not provided any evidence that he had a friendship with any 
of these people. And he now says that this testimony was not true and that he in fact didnt 
know any of the payers. So I dont find that testimony to be likely or plausible.
Next, Ive considered Mr Ws claim that he lost his card, was hacked, and did not carry out 
any of the activity involved. But I can see Mr W still had his card afterwards, as he used it for 
his own activity after this incident. Its also not clear how a third-party thief wouldve known 
his PIN. Similarly, the online payments were made using Mr Ws phone, which was the only 
device registered to the account, which hed registered using a video selfie of himself and his 
photo ID. Mr W still had this phone afterwards, as again he used it for his own activity after 
this incident, so it wasnt stolen. And hes confirmed he didnt record or tell anyone his 
security details nor give anyone else access to his account, so theres no likely or plausible 
way a thief couldve accessed his app without his permission. As such, the only likely and 
plausible possibility remaining is that Mr W authorised the use of the account.
Ive then considered Mr Ws latest testimony  that he thought this was part of a legitimate 
investment group. Mr W says he cant provide any evidence that this group existed, or that 
he was in contact with them, or what was said, as he says all the messages have since been 
deleted. So Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have been the case.
Mr W says this all started when he sent the group about £250 of his own money to invest, so 
he thought the payments he was receiving were his profits. But theres no record of Mr W 
making that initial investment  for example, its not reflected on his statements. We asked 
Mr W for evidence of this investment, but he only sent us a screenshot of a payment he 
made several days after he received and spent the fraudulent funds  not before. So theres 
no evidence he made any initial investment beforehand, or that he had any good reason to 
think the money he was getting was his profits.
Further, its not particularly plausible that Mr W would send large sums to people whod 
randomly added him to a messaging app group, nor that he would really think it was 
legitimate to receive all these payments from various people who he didnt know. And its not 
clear why Mr W felt the need to move the money on so quickly if he thought these were his 
legitimate profits  though it would make sense if he were willingly part of the fraud or acting 
as money mule.Finally, Ive considered the possibility that Mr W was either directly involved in the fraud or 
acting as a willing money mule. That fits very well with the evidence at hand  Mr W received 
multiple lots of funds which have been confirmed as fraudulent, and either spent the money 
himself or moved it on quickly such that it couldnt be recovered. His testimony has been 
highly inconsistent and implausible. And hes not provided any substantial evidence to back 
up his testimony or show any entitlement to the money he spent, even where such evidence 
should be straightforward to provide  such as evidence of his initial investment.
When Mr W first spoke to Starling, he gave them a screenshot of a text conversation he had 
with one of the fraud victims, where they agreed to send him money. This indicates that 
Mr W was in direct contact with at least one of the victims, which suggests that he may have 
even been actively involved in defrauding them.
Similarly, Mr W withdrew the bulk of the fraudulent money in cash. So it appears that Mr W 
was the main beneficiary of the fraud. If Mr W was an unwitting participant in the fraud, then 
it wouldnt make sense for the fraudsters to let him keep so much of the money himself. But 
it fits well with the possibility that Mr W was a knowing and willing participant in the fraud.
Mr W opened this account some time before the fraud took place, but used it for little other 
than receiving and moving on money. This would be most unusual for an account opened for 
genuine use  but it does fit well with how an account might be used for fraud.
Lastly, I can see that at least one other institution found that Mr W had misused his facility in 
a similar way, so this does not appear to have been an isolated incident. And Ive not seen 
any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr W couldve knowingly and 
willingly helped to receive and pass on fraudulent funds.
In summary, Mr W received the confirmed proceeds of fraud, spent or moved it on quickly 
such that it couldnt be recovered, and appears to have been the main beneficiary of the 
fraud. His testimony has been contradictory and implausible. Hes not been able to evidence 
he was entitled to the money. And the way the account was used significantly supports the 
possibility that he was knowingly and willingly involved in the fraud. So based on everything 
Ive seen, I think its fair that Starling closed Mr Ws account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr W 
to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman