DRN-3599054
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax did not send him confirmation
that his account was closed, despite requesting this multiple times.
What happened
Mr H says he received a letter from Halifax, dated 10 February 2021, which mentioned that
he hadnt used his Halifax credit card for a while and he had a zero balance on his account.
The letter said they would close his account if he didnt use it or contact them by 23 April
2021.
Mr H sent Halifax a letter dated 17 May 2021. He said as the account was no longer
required, he agreed with the decision to close his account on 23 April 2021. Mr H said that
for completeness, he would appreciate if Halifax sent him written confirmation to confirm the
account had been closed. Mr H also sent Halifax a letter asking them to close his current
account as he wasnt using this account either. Again, he asked them to post confirmation to
himself that the current account had been closed.
Mr H says he did not receive a response from Halifax to his request. So he re-sent Halifax
this letter again, on 28 June 2021, but again, he says he received no response from Halifax,
despite asking them to confirm by post that his account was closed.
Mr H complained to Halifax in a letter dated 15 July 2021. The letter reiterated his need to
receive confirmation that his current account had been closed and that he hadnt received
confirmation of this despite him first asking for this two months earlier. Mr H said that he had
received a statement of fees for his current account from Halifax on 2 July 2021, but this
document didnt confirm whether his account had been closed. Mr H did not include his
credit card number on this complaint or mention anything about his credit card on the
complaint to Halifax. The complaint to Halifax was solely regarding his current account and
this is what Halifax investigated only.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said that they had received his letter dated 17
May 2021 and they had actioned the current account closure on 20 May 2021 and sent him
a closing statement. They also said they had attached a closing statement with their final
response letter. Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said that Halifax had evidenced to us
that they had sent a closing statement to Mr H on 20 May 2021 to his registered address.
Our investigator also explained that Halifax had informed Mr H in their final response letter
dated 26 July, that his account was closed on 20 May 2021 and they said they enclosed a
closing statement with their final response letter.
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary he said he never received a final response letter from Halifax and to date he has
had no such correspondence of a closing statement.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must make Mr H aware that my investigation has solely focused on the events around his
current account closure only, as this is what he complained about to Halifax. His complaint
letter to Halifax on 15 July 2021 has the closure letter attached for his current account only
and his letter makes no reference to his credit card  only his current account. If Mr H wishes
to complain about anything relating to his credit card then he will need to raise this
separately with Halifax, to give them the opportunity to respond to any points surrounding
the credit card closure before bringing a separate complaint to our service if he wishes to do
so.
Ive considered whether Halifax did indeed send any type of closure confirmation in
response to Mr Hs letter dated 17 May 2021. Im satisfied that Halifax received this letter as
Ive looked at Halifaxs internal customer notes. The internal notes would show when Halifax
receives correspondence from a customer. Halifax have confirmed they would scan
customer correspondence onto their system when correspondence has been received, then
direct the request to the relevant department. The notes confirm they received the request to
close his current account on 18 May 2021, and they allocated this to the relevant
department.
The next time the notes are updated are on 20 May 2021. This shows that Mr Hs account
was closed that day. Halifax has also provided us with a closing statement dated 20 May
2021, which is in the format of a regular statement Halifax would send Mr H for the account.
The statement shows transactions from 7 January 2021  20 May 2021. The statement is
addressed to Mr H at his registered address. So Im persuaded that Halifax sent Mr H a
closing statement.
It is not initially clear on this statement that Mr Hs account has been closed as he would
have to look in detail at the statement to see the account was closed, as the only indication
of this is on page three of three as one line says 20 May 21  Closed account and does not
mention an account closure elsewhere on the statement.
But Im satisfied that Halifax had sent this to Mr H. While Mr H says he did not receive this, I
cant hold Halifax responsible for any issues with the postal system, when Im satisfied that
they have sent Mr H confirmation that his account was closed, even if the confirmation was
not as clear as it could have been (for example if they attached a letter with the statement to
confirm the account was closed).
Ive then considered what Mr H has said about the letter he sent to Halifax, dated 28 June
2021, which was a copy of the letter he had previously sent. I have no doubt that Mr H did
send this letter, but Im not persuaded that Halifax received this letter. I say this because I
looked at Halifaxs system notes again and they do not show any correspondence had been
received from Mr H around this date. The last update to his customer notes had been 20
May 2021, when they had closed his account, and the next note after this was in July 2021,
when they received his complaint letter, with the request again to provide confirmation that
his account had been closed. So Im satisfied the reason they didnt respond to Mr Hs letter
that he sent them in June 2021, is because they didnt receive this letter.Ive considered what Mr H has said about not receiving Halifaxs final response letter. But Im
satisfied that he did receive this letter as he sent our service a copy of this letter with his
handwritten notes on it. It may be that Mr H didnt realise that this is what is referred to as a
final response letter, but this letter does confirm to Mr H that his current account was closed
on 20 May 2021. I cant determine whether a closing statement was included in the same
envelope as the final response letter, as all I can see from Halifaxs system is that they sent
the final response letter to Mr H.
Halifax say in their final response they were enclosing a closing statement with the letter. Mr
H has written on the final response letter that he had not previously received a copy of the
closing statement which Halifax now claim they sent on 20 May 2021. So as Mr H has used
the words not previously received, then its probable that Halifax did enclose a copy of a
closing statement with their final response letter. But even if they didnt, the letter itself was
confirmation that his account had been closed on 20 May 2021, which was what Mr H was
wanting confirmation of with his previous two letters.
Ive read everything what Mr H has said regarding the inconvenience, annoyance and upset
at what transpired. So I understand why this matter is very important to him. But Halifax
closed his account within two days of receiving his original request to close his current
account and sent him a closing statement which is dated on the same day they closed his
account, addressed to Mr H at his registered address. Im persuaded for the reasons Ive
already given, that Halifax didnt respond to Mr Hs June letter as they didnt receive this
letter. They responded to Mr Hs July letter to tell him that his account was closed down on
20 May 2021, which is the written confirmation that he was wanting.
I will ask our investigator to forward Mr H his closing statement in case he does not have a
copy of this and I will ask her to also send Mr H a copy of the final response letter that he
has sent us, so he is aware that he did receive this from Halifax. I know Mr H will be very
disappointed, but it follows I dont intend to ask Halifax to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Halifax said they had nothing to add. Mr H did not respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman