DRN-2053079
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund disputed transaction made on his 
account. 
What happened
Mr H says that he stayed overnight in a hotel, and during the night a transfer of almost 
£14,000 was made via his mobile phone app that he didnt authorise. Mr H explained that he 
was with a friend and fell asleep due to being very tired, and his mobile phone was with him 
at the time. 
Lloyds said it wasnt possible for them to stop the pending payment, they didnt refund the 
money because a fraudster would need to know Mr Hs details to access his mobile app and 
text messages would have to be sent to Mr H when any payment is made via the app. 
Mr H didnt accept Lloyds response so complained to our service. He said you gain access 
to online banking app via either face recognition or a passcode and its possible his friend 
knows this. He last logged in at midnight and nobody knows his online banking details. And 
he didnt get any calls or text messages from the bank. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They said 
they couldnt see how a fraudster gained access to his mobile banking without his 
knowledge and it seems odd that the fraudster accessed Mr Hs mobile app earlier in the 
morning but didnt transfer the funds until later. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. In summary he said:
-He didnt get any messages from the bank.
-He doesnt have biometrics on his phone.
-He thinks the IP addresses, where the transfers were carried out from, look strange 
some coming from outside of the UK.
Our investigator contacted the bank to confirm that the mobile banking was accessed via 
biometrics on the day before the fraud  and Lloyds explained that way the information is 
recorded it can mean either biometrics or face ID. On balance she thought he likely received 
the text and although the IP address for part of the morning was outside of the UK, when the 
transfer occurred the IP address was close to Mr Hs location. 
Mr H reiterated his original points that there were lots of different IP addresses which he 
thinks the bank should have picked up on and he didnt receive any messages to notify him 
about the setting up of a new payee. And hes also been to the police and theyd confirmed 
the money had been transferred to numerous accounts.
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Lloyds can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Hs genuine online banking details 
were used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented to the 
transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would need to gain access to 
Mr Hs mobile phone and his app. To gain access to Mr Hs mobile app theyd need 
his log in details, his memorable information and his password. Mr H explained that 
he didnt write his online banking details down, hadnt shared them with anyone and 
the day prior to the disputed transaction he accessed his online banking via face ID  
so his security details couldnt have been overlooked. Therefore I cant see how a 
fraudster could have accessed his account. 
-A text message was sent to Mr Hs mobile phone number to confirm the transfer.
 
-Mr H said he last accessed his mobile banking at midnight immediately prior to the 
disputed transactions. There were a large number of mobile app log ins after 
midnight but the funds werent transferred out of Mr Hs account until 4am  I find it 
surprising that a fraudster would take the risk of logging into Mr Hs account on so 
many occasions before transferring out the funds. 
-At 1:23am £15,000 was moved from Mr Hs savings account to his current account 
before £14,557 was moved back a short time later. This left Mr H with a zero balance 
and not in his overdraft in his current account. I cant see why a fraudster would 
ensure that Mr H wasnt in his overdraft or in fact make either transfer between 
Mr Hs own accounts. 
-I struggle to understand why a fraudster wouldnt have transferred out all of Mr Hs 
funds if theyd gained access to his online banking app. Mr H was left with just over a 
£1,000 remaining in his savings account after the disputed transfer.  
Mr H responded to our investigators view by saying that prior to and after the disputed 
transaction there were a number of IP address changes. I agree that the IP addresses prior 
to the disputed transaction appear unusual  indicating log ins were carried out outside of 
the UK. But this doesnt change my overall conclusions. I say this because due to the factors 
Ive outlined above, in particular the difficulties a fraudster would have in accessing Mr Hs 
online banking app and the unusual behaviour of the fraudster on balance I think Mr H 
authorised the transaction. And therefore Im satisfied Lloyds can hold him liable for the 
transaction. My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman