DRN-3037535
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as General Accident) mishandled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include claims-handlers, solicitors and others insofar as I hold Aviva 
responsible for their actions or omissions.
What happened
For the year from November 2019, Mr S had his car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Aviva.
In early April 2020, Mr S reported that a third partys van had hit his car. Aviva arranged to 
repair Mr Ss car.
In late September 2020, Mr S was surprised that Aviva contacted him to ask for evidence of 
the third partys liability for the accident. He said hed provided everting he had.
In February 2021, Aviva told Mr S its solicitors would contact him. The solicitors contacted 
Mr S from March 2021. 
In May 2021, Mr S complained to Aviva about delay and repetitive requests for information 
hed already provided. By a final response dated 19 May 2021, Aviva said the matter might 
yet take some time as the third party denied knowledge of the accident and was living in 
another part of the UK.
Mr S brought his complaint to us straight away. He said that Aviva and its solicitors should 
stop contacting him, or at least not ask him for information hed already provided. He also 
said that Aviva  should withdraw the threat of increased premiums in the future.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Aviva had acted unfairly.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
There was no good reason why Aviva needed to let this matter drag on for months on 
end before escalating it. 
Aviva chose to take advantage of the tax payer by furloughing staff to save money - 
they did not need to, because people still needed insurance and they could have had 
them working from home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Almost any claim by a policyholder is likely to cause an increased premium the next year.
If an insurer has made an outlay to settle a claim, its not unusual for it to treat the claim as 
an open claim or as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until that insurer 
recovers its outlay in full  usually from a third party. There may be a number of reasons why 
an insurer cant recover its outlay in full. 
An insurer which is trying to recover its outlay has to allow time for a response from the third 
party or the third partys insurer.
When Mr S took out the policy, he agreed to provide information in the event of a claim.
During the Covid-19 restrictions from late March 2020 onwards, many insurers were working 
at reduced capacity. Mr S is entitled to his view about furloughing staff. From its file, I see 
that Aviva contacted the third partys insurer in May 2020.
I keep in mind that the third partys insurer was also affected by Covid-19 restrictions. So I 
cant say that Avivas response to the pandemic delayed the progress of the claim 
unreasonably in Mr Ss case.
The third party insurer didnt accept liability. So it was inevitable that the claim would take 
time to resolve.
I can see that Mr S was irritated by repetitive requests for information when hed already 
provided everything he could. And he was annoyed when Avivas solicitors indicated it might 
have to record a fault claim against him.
As Mr S was obliged to cooperate with Aviva, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Aviva to stop contacting him.
As Aviva hadnt recovered its outlay from the third party, I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Aviva to withdraw the comment about the effect of the claim on future premiums.
Overall, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint that Aviva was responsible for unreasonable delay 
or for mishandling the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as General Accident) to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman