DRN-4253888
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a subsidence claim on her 
buildings insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs H held a buildings insurance policy with AXA. When her home was damaged by 
subsidence, she submitted a claim. AXA accepted the claim, and accepted the damage was 
caused by subsidence.
Mrs H complains about how AXA has handled that claim.
AXA addressed some aspects of her complaint in a final response letter issued in November 
2021. So, were not able to look into those issues because theyre outside of the timescales 
set by the Financial Conduct Authority.
But issues occurred after that date which Mrs H complains about. Namely shes not happy 
that AXA didnt spot a manhole next to her conservatory, which she feels delayed the 
building of her new conservatory. She thinks the issue with the manhole cover should have 
been spotted earlier, and that if it were, shed have been without the use of her conservatory 
for less time.
AXA accepted the service it provided wasnt what Mrs H should have reasonably expected. 
It offered her £150 compensation.
Mrs H remained unhappy and brough her complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt think AXA needed to anything more. She thought the 
compensation AXA offered was fair.
But Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying that based on what Id seen, I was planning on 
requiring AXA to pay Mrs H a further £500. That decision said:
The main issue here surrounds the manhole and whether it should have been 
spotted sooner.
AXA has said neither the initial inspection nor the site investigation recorded the 
location of the manhole. These was carried out by two different specialists.
AXA has said Regretfullyneither contractor recorded the manhole
Theres no real explanation why this was missed. So Im inclined to say this was an 
error by both contractors. Theres nothing to suggest either contractor was unable to 
locate the manhole, or that there was something preventing them from recording it. 
AXAs use of the word regretfully also indicates this was an error.
Therefore, Im of the opinion that the manhole and the corresponding drain should 
have been spotted earlier. This means the build over notice (BON) would have been 
requested earlier and the design for the new conservatory would have taken into 
account the manhole and corresponding drain earlier too.
AXA says it realised a BON was needed in April 2022, after the manhole was 
discovered in March 2022. The BON was then granted in September 2022. This 
process took roughly five months.
However, as above, I think this should have been spotted earlier. And I think this 
should have been reasonably spotted before the design was sent to the relevant 
contractor in June 2021. A delay of roughly 10 months.
Im mindful that AXA has said the conservatory needed demolishing, and this was 
done in March 2022. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this could have been 
done sooner.
But I think that had the BON notice been applied for earlier, a suitable design would 
have been achieved, and the building of the new conservatory would have been able 
to commence shortly after the old conservatory was demolished. This is because the 
BON notice took five months to be granted, and the delay was longer than that, at 10 
months.
So, I think the error in not spotting the manhole meant Mrs H was without her 
conservatory for longer than needed. And I think that time period is roughly six 
months (from when the conservatory was demolished in March, to when the BON 
was granted in September.
Mrs H says she used the conservatory as her dining area, so, while Im conscious 
she had the use of the remainder of the house, being without her conservatory for 
around six months longer than necessary would have caused distress and upset. Im 
not persuaded £125 is fair compensation for that. I think an offer of a further £500 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H replied and in summary, accepted the further compensation Id recommended.
AXA didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision set out above, I see no reason to depart 
from its reasoning or its findings. Therefore, my final decision reflects that provisional one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. To put 
things right AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to:
Pay Mrs H an additional £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman