DRN-3825204
The complaint
Mr W has told us that he renewed his driving licence online, but inadvertently used the 
website of a company (the company) which charged him a fee he now believes he neednt 
have paid. 
Mr W used a credit card he held through Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money 
(Virgin Money), to pay the fee. He wants Virgin Money to refund the fee to him.
What happened
The events and context which led to this complaint are well established.
Consumers can renew driving licences direct with the Driver and Vehicle Licencing Agency 
(DVLA), which is the government body that issues licences. But the company provides a 
service whereby consumers can apply to renew licences on its website and it then sends 
their details onto the DVLA. It charges consumers a fee for this service, in addition to the 
cost of renewing the licence itself. 
Mr W used the companys website in error, he thought he had gone direct to the DVLA. He 
has described the companys service as a scam and pure theft. He thinks that Virgin 
Money should refund the companys fee to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to point out that this decision only covers the way in which Virgin Money 
responded to Mr Ws request to refund the companys fee. Mr W made many remarks about 
the company itself, but except where they are also relevant to Virgin Money, I cant comment 
on these remarks.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he thinks the company was fraudulent and that Virgin 
Money did nothing to protect (him) or recover (his) money from its fraudulent actions. 
I certainly expect financial firms, such as Virgin Money, to try to protect consumers from 
fraud. For example, if a consumer tries to make an unusual payment online, then I would 
expect a financial firm to contact the consumer to check if it should go ahead with the 
payment. Similarly, if a fraud comes to light, I expect financial firms to make reasonable 
attempts to recover the money the consumer has lost.
In Mr Ws case, there was nothing particularly unusual about the payment he made to the 
company. It was for a relatively modest amount, less than £100, and I can see no reason 
why Virgin Money should have undertaken any fraud-related checks before going ahead with 
it.
After Virgin Money investigated Mr Ws complaint, it pointed out that the company had sent 
Mr Ws details on to the DVLA and so it couldnt progress the claim because the company 
had delivered the service for which Mr W had paid. I understand that because of this, it didnt 
make any attempt to recover the fee Mr W had paid to the company. Although I accept Mr W 
now believes he was scammed by the company as he could have gone direct to the DVLA, 
I also accept Virgin Moneys explanation for not trying to recover his money. 
In correspondence with Mr W, Virgin Money also said that it had reviewed (his) case under 
Section 75 but couldnt progress (his) claim that way either ....because there had been no 
breach of contract. This was a reference to Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. In 
certain circumstances, this Act allows consumers to make complaints about goods and 
services they bought on credit to the company that provided the credit, as well as to the one 
that provided the goods or services.
I dont think that Mr W actually raised Section 75 with Virgin Money. Virgin Money seems to 
have brought it into play itself. However, for Mr Ws benefit, I would like to point out that 
although Section 75 is relevant to many situations, it only applies if the cash price of the 
goods or service was more than £100 and less than £30,000. As the total payment Mr W 
made to the company was less than £100, I have not considered Section 75 any further. 
During our investigation of Mr Ws complaint, he has told us several times that he did not 
know that the company would charge him its fee in addition to the DVLAs own charge for 
renewing his licence. He has said that he was not aware of the total cost until he received 
his credit-card statement. He has added that the company has since changed its website. 
As well as Section 75 protection, there is another scheme, known as chargeback which in 
certain circumstances could have allowed Virgin Money to try to claim Mr Ws money back 
from the company. Unlike Section 75, chargeback can be applied to transactions where the 
value was less than £100. It can be used in situations where the transaction was for the 
wrong amount and in several other circumstances. As far as I am aware, Virgin Money didnt 
attempt to use the chargeback process for Mr W, so I have considered if any such attempt 
may have succeeded if it had tried. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that a chargeback claim would have worked for two main 
reasons. Firstly, I do not know exactly what information the company put on its website at 
the time. Its possible the site displayed the full price and Mr W just didnt see it. Secondly, I 
also think its highly likely that Mr W would have used Virgin Moneys authorisation screens 
to confirm the payment and that these would probably have shown the total amount. Also, as 
Mr W has said he didnt know what the charge was at the time he authorised the transaction, 
Virgin Money may have found it difficult to show that the fee was wrong under the terms of 
the scheme. 
So, in summary, I do not think Virgin Money did anything wrong when it went ahead with Mr 
Ws payment to the company. Nor do I think it was under any obligation to try to recover the 
companys fee for him on grounds of possible fraud. And Im satisfied that the payment Mr W 
made was too small for me to consider his case under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit; 
Act and that its unlikely that any claim under the chargeback scheme would have 
succeeded. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Clydesdale 
Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman