DRN-3628327
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) didnt do enough to prevent him being the 
victim of an investment scam.
What happened
Mr W saw an advert for company R online and believed he was trading in bitcoin with it. He 
made three payments in January 2021 totalling £8,251.51, one by card (£251.51) and two by 
transfer (£3,000 and £5,000). Mr W says he made the card payment direct to R and the 
other payments via a cryptocurrency exchange, but his statements show all three payments 
going to cryptocurrency exchanges. Mr W tried to withdraw money from his investment in 
March 2021 and that is when he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
BoS looked into the transactions Mr W had sent but said they couldnt be recovered as 
theyd gone to legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges. And it said this was also why 
chargeback rights didnt apply. It said it hadnt made any errors in processing the payments 
so it wouldnt be reimbursing Mr W. He raised a complaint about this, but it didnt change its 
stance and so rejected the complaint.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator also didnt uphold it. He noted 
that Mr W had paid one of the cryptocurrency exchanges, E, before. So this was a known 
payee and the amounts sent werent dissimilar. And he said the payment to the other 
exchange, Z, was also not uncharacteristic and too low to flag on automated systems. Mr W 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the previous 
payments to E in 2020 werent related to the scam. And that BoS had a duty of care towards 
him that it didnt fulfil. So he asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BoS does have a duty to monitor the transactions leaving a customers account and to 
try and protect them from fraud. But I dont agree that the payments in this case did 
warrant an intervention by BoS. The payment to Z was of low value and didnt look 
uncharacteristic for the general account spending, so I dont think this shouldve been of 
concern.
While the two payments to E were of higher value, Mr W had previously sent £4,000 to 
E, so it wasnt a new payee. These previous payments werent disputed by him at the 
time and hes since confirmed they were for genuine cryptocurrency investing. And I can 
see from his statements that he has sent other payments of several thousand pounds in 
one day in the six months before the disputed payments. So looking at the overall usage 
of his account, I dont agree that the payments to E were entirely out of character and so 
warranted an intervention. I therefore dont agree BoS failed in its duty to review and 
monitor Mr Ws account.
As Mr W paid cryptocurrency providers and then from here the money was moved to R, 
he doesnt have rights under chargeback. E and Z did fulfil what was asked of them by 
providing the cryptocurrency, it was after this the funds were lost to the scammers. So 
there isnt a recovery avenue for Mr W.
I accept Mr W has lost his funds due to a sophisticated scam. But I dont consider BoS has 
made any mistakes in processing the payments he sent. And there arent any recovery 
options available, so Im not asking it to reimburse Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman