DRN-2432545
The complaint
Mrs J says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited, trading as Mutual, lent to her 
irresponsibly. Mrs J says that she was in financial difficulty when she borrowed from Mutual. 
She says Mutual should have seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about ten home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs J between 
October 2012 and January 2020.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm date ended
1 20/10/2012 £1,000 102 22/01/2014
2 27/04/2013 £500 102 30/07/2014
3 25/01/2014 £1,000 102 15/02/2017
4 26/07/2014 £500 102 20/06/2018
5 20/09/2014 £200 51 21/12/2016
6 23/06/2018 £500 102 02/10/2019
7 25/08/2018 £200 51 06/03/2019
8 23/02/2019 £500 102 15/01/2020
9 05/10/2019 £600 102 Outstanding
10 18/01/2020 £670 102 Outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that Mutual shouldnt have approved 
any lending from loan 4 onwards as the lending pattern itself was harmful. Mutual disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual have said and brief summary is 
below:
the loans are not high interest or expensive and the repayments are small each week 
so they should be considered differently from other lenders or high cost short term 
credit
the adjudicator didnt properly consider the consumers circumstances or consider 
what proportionate checks were needed. The checks Mutual did were proportionate 
for each loan and the loans were affordable, it individually determined the reasons for 
lending each time and it gathered more information as the lending relationship went 
on
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is not necessarily harmful to 
consumers. The industry regulator has confirmed this
its not appropriate to use an arbitrary loan number to uphold the complaint at. And 
there are no industry regulations that say lending is unsustainable because of the 
number of loans, the length of the lending relationship, the amounts lent, any lending 
trends and the time period between loans 
a key indicator of when a loan is affordable is whether past loans have been repaid in 
a reasonable way. Mutual used a low and grow approach to make sure this 
happened
there is no evidence in this case to support the adjudicators conclusions that the 
length of time over which the consumer borrowed makes the loans unsustainable
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per 
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower amount of 
loans than this, so the lending was likely to be sustainable
as these are longer term products, with a term of around two years, it isnt 
reasonable to say that it should have stopped lending after 18 months
there would be no reason to continue to borrow to make the repayments to the loan, 
they can use the flexibility of the product so this pressure wouldnt exist. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints 
of this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of 
this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont 
intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mrs 
J. It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to 
Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the 
published decisions on our website. So Im not going deal with these points at length 
here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its 
identified high cost credit cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a 
payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, 
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not 
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside 
everything else in making my decision.
Mrs J accepted our adjudicators findings about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans  and, for the avoidance of doubt, 
given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this 
lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs J had with Mutual. So, they 
are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks made were proportionate from loan 4 
onwards and Ill explain why below. But I will comment that much of the information provided 
by Mutual about the checks it made concerns the process its agents would have followed. 
But there is very little evidence to show these processes were followed here. It hasnt 
provided detailed application information. And, its reasonable to say that Mutual didnt 
adhere to its policy, if it has one, of a low and grow approach. The highest loan amounts 
approved were right at the start. So, Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is 
supposed to have followed, but didnt, are helpful here. Im not able to place any weight on 
descriptions of what ought to have happened. 
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall pattern 
of Mutuals lending history with Mrs J, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Js case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Mutual ought to have realised Mrs J was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs J had been indebted to Mutual for just under two years. The 
loans were intended to run for around two years, so Mutual could have expected this 
would be the case. But because these loans overlapped, her overall indebtedness 
and weekly repayment increased. By loan 4 Miss H had only repaid loan 1 fully, loan 
3 was still outstanding and it looks like loan 4 was used to repay loan 2 in part. 
So, rather than the picture of decreasing indebtedness that would happen when a 
loan is taken and repaid, there was a pattern of repeated and increasing borrowing over the earlier loans. I think taking out four longer term high cost loans, and only 
having fully repaid one, is a strong indicator that Mrs J was starting to struggle 
financially. 
So Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Mrs Js 
indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Loan 4 was for £500, the same as loan 2. But loans 1 and 3 were both for £1,000. 
So, loan 4 was the latest in a line of loans of relatively high amounts. At this point 
Mutual ought to have known that Mrs J was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
And this is reflected in the information Mutual recorded about why Mrs J started 
these loans. Loans 1 to 3 look to be taken to fund one off expenditures. Loan 4 was 
recorded as being to pay bills. Which says to me that Mrs H had moved over time 
from being unable to immediately pay for larger expenditures to needing to borrow to 
pay her everyday living costs. 
And as Mrs J was making a commitment to make repayments for another two years 
its likely that her problems would continue, and she would need to borrow again in 
the future. As did happen. 
Mrs J didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 10 was 
taken over 7 years after Mrs Js first. So the harmful pattern I think was established 
from loan 4 continued. Mrs J had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Mutual over a very long time.
I think that Mrs J lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mrs J borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 10 and Ill go on to set out 
what Mutual should do to put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably. 
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly. 
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here. And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern 
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be 
also looked at, as Ive done above. 
So whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs J from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs J may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs J would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Mrs J loans 4 to 10.
If Mutual has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs J as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs J having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mrs J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs J. Mutual shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing for loans 4 to 10 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Js credit file. 
Mutual does not have to remove loans from Mrs Js credit file until these have been repaid, 
but Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman