DRN-3264504
The complaint
Miss G complains that PAY WEEKLY LTD (PWL) failed to refund all of the sums she was 
entitled to when she took the decision to cancel an order for the supply and installation of 
some flooring.
What happened
On 31 March 2020 Miss G entered into a hire agreement (regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974) for the supply and fit of some flooring. She entered into this agreement on the 
understanding that the flooring would be supplied and fitted within four weeks, ie before 
28 April 2020. The flooring wasnt supplied and fitted by 28 April 2020.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss G undertook to pay a 
survey fee of £22, an administration fee of £18, followed by a number of weekly payments of 
£10.
Miss G paid the survey fee of £18, the administration fee of £22 followed by five weekly 
payments of £10 (total £50) before taking the decision (on the grounds of delay) to cancel 
her order.
PWL accept that Miss G was, in all the circumstances, entitled to cancel her order. But when 
she did so it took the view that it was only obliged to refund her the five weekly payments 
made of £10 (total £50). This sum was refunded to Miss G on 7 May 2020.
Unhappy with PWLs decision to only refund her £50, and not £90, Miss G complained to our 
service.
PWL says that in October 2020 it agreed to refund Miss G the further £40 she was seeking. 
On the other hand, Miss G says that PWL only agreed to refund her a further £22, not £40 at 
this time.
In December 2021, and having considered Miss Gs complaint, one of our investigators 
came to the view that PWL should have to refund/pay Miss G £40.
PWL agreed to the investigators view, but Miss G didnt. Miss G said that PWL should have 
to pay her (in addition to the £40) interest on this sum plus something for the distress and 
inconvenience the whole matter had caused her. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint was passed to me 
for review and decision.
Having carried out and initial review of the complaint, I asked the investigator to see if both 
parties would be prepared to settle matters on the payment of £50, rather than £40.
PWL confirmed it was prepared to pay £50 to settle matters, but Miss G confirmed she 
wasnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Im satisfied that £50 reflects an appropriate sum for PWL 
to have to pay Miss G.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Notwithstanding that PWL says it was prepared to pay Miss G £40 as far back as 
October 2020, and again following the investigators view in December 2021, I would like to 
make it clear that I agree (for the same reasons as the investigator) that this sum should be 
paid to Miss G by PWL.
So, that leaves me to simply decide whether Miss G should be paid anything further by PWL.
Now I accept that this matter might have caused Miss G some distress and inconvenience 
and that she has been deprived the benefit of a return on £40 for nearly two years.
But having had regard to the original sum in dispute here - £40  and what both parties have 
said and submitted, Im satisfied that the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has 
caused Miss G can be best described as minor, and the return on £40 she has lost out on is 
minimal. 
Im also mindful, despite what Miss G says to the contrary, that PWL says it was prepared to 
pay £40 to settle matters back in October 2020  less than six months after Miss G first 
complained  and this whole matter has taken place in what can be best described as 
unprecedented times for all of us.
My final decision
My final decision is that PAY WEEKLY LTD must pay Miss G £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman