DRN-3833703
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limited because it hasnt provided them 
with a home insurance policy.
Mr D has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint. So, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to Fairmead includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr D got in touch with Fairmead in 2021 about damage at his home. Fairmead said 
the damage had been caused by subsidence and accepted it was covered by the 
policy. It began dealing with the claim.
The policy was due to expire in March 2022. Fairmead offered to renew it. Mr D was 
unwell and in hospital at the time. When he recovered, he asked to accept the offer, 
but he was told the opportunity to do so had elapsed. And as he had an ongoing 
subsidence claim, he couldnt be offered a policy as a new customer.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had acted unfairly. She said industry guidance 
encouraged insurers to offer continuous cover for customers with subsidence claims. 
And that it was only Mr Ds hospitalisation that prevented him from accepting the 
renewal invitation sooner. She recommended Fairmead offer continued cover and 
pay £200 compensation for the worry caused to Mr D.
Mr D accepted our investigators recommendations. Fairmead didnt. It made a 
number of points, but Ill summarise those most relevant to the dispute:
oIt wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to honour a price quoted long 
ago as it may no longer reflect the risk. And in extreme circumstances, it 
could endanger the solvency of an insurer.
oMr D had chosen not to renew the policy.
oAnything could have happened since the policy expired. Mr D could have 
taken a policy out elsewhere and become unhappy with that insurer. He could 
have had another policy voided  or he could have chosen to go without 
cover and only got back in touch because he needed to make a claim.
oHow long might insurers be expected to provide cover retrospectively?
oIts egregious to ask Fairmead to pay £200 compensation. It acted fairly and 
isnt responsible for Mr D failing to renew the policy in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once a property has suffered subsidence, its usually significantly more difficult to 
insure on normal terms. Generally, consumers are likely to find insurers dont offer 
cover at all. Or, if they do, only at a considerably increased premium and/or excess. 
As a result, it can be very difficult for consumers in these circumstances to find home 
insurance which provides subsidence cover at an affordable price.
Thats why theres guidance to insurers within the home insurance industry about 
this. In summary, if an insurer deals with a subsidence claim for a policyholder, the 
guidance says its good practice for the insurer to offer continuous home insurance, 
including subsidence cover, on reasonable terms.
The guidance is clear that it would be good practice to work with the policyholder to 
maintain cover wherever possible.
I understand Fairmead sent a renewal invitation in early February 2022. Im satisfied 
that was in line with the guidance and represented good industry practice. The policy 
lapsed in March, after the renewal date had passed without a response from Mr D.
In late April, Mr D asked to accept the invitation. Fairmead considered whether it 
would offer cover to him as if he was a new customer  but the ongoing subsidence 
claim meant he fell outside of its usual underwriting criteria.
Mr D has explained that around the time of the renewal he was hospitalised twice, 
following two separate injuries as a result of a medical condition he has. Far from 
choosing not to renew, as Fairmead has suggested, I think its fair to say Mr D was 
unable to do so. He got in touch with Fairmead as soon as he was able and within 
two months of the policy expiring. I dont find that unreasonable in the circumstances.
The guidance notes insurers cant guarantee to maintain cover in all circumstances, 
although it doesnt give any specific examples. However, it says even in problem 
cases, cover should be provided wherever possible. In my view, this means insurers 
should offer cover unless they can present a compelling reason not to. Generally, I 
think a compelling reason is one that would place the risk significantly outside of the 
insurers usual underwriting criteria  but not in relation to subsidence, as thats what 
the industry guidance is seeking to remedy.
In this case, Fairmead offered to maintain cover. So it was clearly prepared to insure 
the risk presented by Mr D and his property. And apart from Mr Ds property suffering 
subsidence, its offered no other barrier to providing cover.
Fairmead has raised a number of hypothetical points about what might have 
happened in this case  or which might happen in others. But it hasnt said any of 
these things did happen here, so I dont think these hypothetical points are relevant 
to this decision, which is limited to the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case. Any 
other case would be decided on its own merits, bearing in mind the good industry 
practice outlined above and the general requirement on insurers to treat 
policyholders fairly and reasonably.
I bear in mind that the spirit of the industry guidance is to seek to maintain cover 
where possible. Mr D was unable to renew the policy at the time, but got in touch with 
Fairmead as soon as he could. And if Fairmead doesnt offer to renew, Mr D is 
unlikely to find another policy on reasonable terms and that could lead to significant 
detriment. Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied Fairmead treated him fairly 
when it refused to renew the policy.I accept Fairmead wouldnt offer cover to a new customer with a history of 
subsidence at their property. And I think thats a commercial underwriting decision 
Fairmead is entitled to make. But in my view, its unfair to treat Mr D as a new 
customer in the circumstances.
To put things right, Fairmead should offer continued cover to Mr D, including 
subsidence cover, on reasonable terms. Fairmead said it would be unfair, and 
potentially put insurers at risk, to honour a price quoted long ago. But our investigator 
didnt specify that the original quote must be honoured. Whilst the option to offer the 
same terms as it did before is open to Fairmead, that was nearly a year ago and 
things may have changed since then. So Im satisfied it would be reasonable for 
Fairmead to offer new terms if it wishes. But it must treat Mr D fairly when offering 
continued cover by calculating the premium and other terms according to general 
underwriting guidelines and offering reasonable terms in line with good industry 
practice.
Im also satisfied Fairmead should pay compensation to Mr D. Fairmead said it would 
be egregious to do so as it wasnt responsible for Mr D failing to renew the policy in 
time. But thats not why our investigator asked Fairmead to pay compensation. She 
said it was for the worry caused to Mr D for not having a policy in place. I agree, its 
clear Mr D has been concerned not to have home insurance. The initial gap in cover 
is an unfortunate consequence of Mr Ds hospitalisation, so I dont hold that against 
Fairmead. But if Fairmead had acted fairly when Mr D asked to accept its renewal 
offer in late April, that would have saved him many months of worry. Im satisfied a 
payment of £200 is reasonable compensation for that.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Offer continued cover, including subsidence cover, on reasonable terms.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman