DRN-3450472
The complaint
Ms N complains that AXA France IARD did not fairly compensate her when it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a store card. 
I know that Ms N has complained about the sale of PPI alongside another store card. Just to 
be clear, this decision is about the policy sold on 17 July 2002 for account number ending 
5230. Ms N will receive a separate decision about the second policy. 
What happened
Ms N complained to AXA that PPI had been mis-sold to her. AXA did not uphold the 
complaint and so Ms N complained to this service. Our adjudicator looked at the complaint 
and thought it should be upheld. AXA then agreed with our adjudicators view and it offered 
to pay £457.60 to compensate Ms N for that mis-sale. 
Ms N didnt accept AXAs offer. She said that she thought AXA had only refunded her PPI 
premiums up to 2005 and that she had paid for PPI for many years after that date. She also 
said that AXA had deducted the value of a claim from her PPI compensation and she said 
she hadnt made any claim. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and he thought AXAs offer was fair. He said he thought 
Ms N had paid PPI up to 2018, but that its compensation offer had been calculated up to that 
time. He also said he thought Ms N had made a claim on the policy, although it was 
understandable that she couldnt recall this. 
Ms N didnt agree with our adjudicators view and so the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the issues raised by Ms N at some length, Im satisfied AXAs offer was 
fair. Ill explain why below.  
As the parties agree PPI was mis-sold to Ms N, I dont need to look at what happened at the 
point of sale. Im just looking at whether AXA fairly compensated Ms N for that mis-sale. 
In a situation such as this, I would expect AXA to return Ms N to the position she would have 
been in if PPI had never been sold to her in the first place. To do that, AXA would need to 
pay back to Ms N all of the PPI premiums, along with any extra charges or interest she paid 
because of the PPI. Id also expect AXA to pay 8% simple interest to compensate Ms N for 
any period she had been out of pocket because of the PPI policy. 
AXA doesnt have full records for Ms Ns store card account. That isnt unusual given how 
long ago the PPI was sold. We do know the cover started in July 2002 and that it was 
cancelled in January 2018. AXA has been able to tell us that Ms N paid £180.92 in total for 
PPI. I know Ms N thinks she may have paid more than this. But looking at the years where 
we do have full transactional data, it seems as though AXAs records on this point are 
accurate. I note there were many months when Ms N did not use the account at all and she 
would not have been charged PPI where the outstanding balance on her account was £0. 
AXA also worked out that Ms N would have paid an additional £257.08 in interest because of 
the PPI. It also calculated 8% simple interest at £92.62. 
But in working out how much to pay Ms N, AXA also had to make some deductions.  HM 
Revenue and Customs requires it to deduct 20% from the £92.62 simple interest refund. So 
AXA had to take off £18.52 for HMRC. 
AXA also deducted the value of two claims from the compensation as well. Ms N says she 
doesnt recognise these claims. But having considered AXAs records, I can see a 
successful claim for £44.50 on 4 October 2004 and another claim for £10 on 5 December 
2005. 
I should make clear that these claims were price protection claims  not accident, sickness 
or unemployment claims. The price protection policy was an additional feature of the PPI 
policy. What it meant was that if the price of an item Ms N bought was reduced within 60 
days of her buying it on her store card, the price difference would have been refunded to her 
account. I appreciate Ms N says she didnt know about these claims, but I think a claim form 
would have had to be completed before the claim was paid. I know Ms N said she didnt 
receive any money, but the refund would have been applied to her account, rather than paid 
to her directly. 
I think it is fair for AXA to deduct the value of these claims from the compensation it now 
owes Ms N. As I said above, the purpose of paying compensation now is to return Ms N to 
the position she would be in now if the policy had never been sold. So if the value of the 
claim wasnt deducted, Ms N would be in a better position. Thats because she would have 
been able to benefit from the policy as well as having all of her premiums refunded. And I 
dont think that would be fair. 
All in all, AXA offered to pay £457.60, which was made up as follows: 
Total gross compensation offer: £530.62
LESS
Tax £18.52
Value of two claims £54.50
TOTAL £457.60
Im satisfied this offer is fair. However, I understand Ms N has not received this payment 
from AXA. If that is the case, AXA will need to update its offer of 8% simple interest to be 
paid up to the date Ms N gets that money back. 
My final decision
AXAs offer of £457.60 to compensate Ms N for the policy sold to her in July 2002 was fair. 
But if Ms N accepts my decision and AXA has not already paid the compensation to her, it 
must update its offer of 8% simple interest up to the date Ms N gets that money back.
As I said above, this decision is about the PPI policy sold to Ms N in July 2002 only. I will 
send her a separate decision about the policy sold in July 2001
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman