DRN-2938830
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt 
with his concerns over a car he obtained using finance it supplied to him.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr A took out a hire-purchase agreement with VMFS to replace a car he 
previously had under a leasing arrangement. The new car required special adaptations to 
assist with his wifes disability, which were undertaken by a third party. Mr A submitted a 
zero-VAT declaration and says the car dealer, D was fully aware of the adaptations. He 
says D made a number of representations about the cars fuel economy and cost of road tax.
However, Mr A says that he was given wrong information about the road tax, and that he 
subsequently found it would cost around another £700 each year. He also identified several 
problems with the car, including the demisting function on the wing mirrors and the 
windscreen wipers not clearing the screen effectively. Mr A was further dismayed to find the 
engine performance sluggish and that he was unable to achieve the fuel economy hed been 
told about.
He says he returned the car to D three times, but says the problems persisted. Some time 
later, after returning from several months abroad, Mr A raised his concerns with VWFS. It 
arranged for the car to be inspected and tested by R, a third party specialist, who provided a 
report on the vehicles condition. Based on that report VWFS didnt consider it was liable to 
Mr A over the problems with the car.
Mr A took the car to a different dealer, W, who he says told him the cars engine 
management unit had recorded a number of fault codes. He believes hes provided sufficient 
evidence that the car was not of satisfactory quality. Mr A ultimately decided he couldnt 
keep the car, and gave up possession of it in April 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr As complaint. He found the road tax 
discrepancy was addressed by D and that this was an appropriate way to deal with that 
aspect. And he was satisfied that Rs inspection was a reliable means of assessing whether 
the car was of satisfactory quality. He obtained additional information from W in response to 
Mr As rejection of his findings. But he found no reason to change his view as a result, and 
concluded that VWFS didnt need to take any further action to address Mr As complaint.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say first of all that Im conscious from Mr As correspondence throughout, and my 
own conversations with him, how strongly he feels about his case. He has referred to his 
extensive driving experience and history of owning similar vehicles. In light of certain of his 
comments, however, I would remind him that it isnt necessary for all our investigators to 
possess formal qualifications in engineering or engine construction.
Our role is to receive complaints about financial organisations, to consider them and  where 
appropriate  to tell the parties how we think matters are best resolved. We do this by 
objective reference to evidence, including expert opinion, rather than our own personal 
experience.
In this case, that evidence includes the extensive correspondence between Mr A and D after 
they agreed to contract but prior to him taking delivery of the car, where they discussed at 
some length the contract price and VAT arrangements. This is potentially relevant as the 
provisions of section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) mean D is to be treated as 
VWFSs agent in antecedent negotiations; that is, discussions that take place before making 
the contract.
Having done so, I dont consider theres anything in those discussions that would amount to 
misleading information from D such that VWFS could fairly be held liable to compensate 
Mr A. Im satisfied D stated the accurate position in these key respects.
Its accepted by all concerned parties that D told Mr A some wrong information about the 
road tax arrangements. But I dont think anything that was said after Mr A entered into the 
contract is a matter for which it would be right to make VWFS liable. The fact VWFS supplied 
the car under the hire-purchase agreement doesnt make it responsible for every problem Mr 
A experienced with D  particularly once the contract was formed. Prior to entry into the 
contract, theres the possibility that Ds statements amounted to a misrepresentation on 
which Mr A placed reliance when the agreement was formed. However, any potential 
financial harm to Mr A was avoided by his subsequent decision to give up the car.
Further, I understand that Mr A reached an agreement regarding the road tax situation 
directly with D. So I make no further comment on that matter in the context of this complaint. 
Rather, I will turn to the issues that Mr A identified as being faults with the car.
VWFS appointed R to carry out an inspection of the faults Mr A said were present on the car. 
Im satisfied from Rs reputation and background that it was an appropriate organisation for 
VWFS to appoint for this purpose. Mr A has explained to me his concerns over the 
inspection carried out by R. Hes critical of the way R examined the car and its interaction 
with him and his wife.
Be that as it may, Rs report details the steps it took to discuss the problems with Mr A and 
to look into the points hed raised. I dont share Mr As concerns over whether it would be 
reasonable for me to place reliance on Rs conclusions. 
Mr As underlying claim is that the car displayed the faults he identified very soon after he 
took delivery. Unfortunately, no detailed report was produced at that time. In fact, at least 21 
months passed before R produced its report. As such, the report might be considered of 
limited value in establishing the cars condition at point of supply. However, the low mileage 
of the car suggests it offers some useful indication of the overall condition, as well as an 
examination of the stated faults.
I accept Rs report on the cars condition, including its findings on the fuel economy and the 
issues Mr A identified. The report noted six fault codes on the engine management unit. But 
it didnt conclude that these fault codes or the problems Mr A raised amounted to defects 
with the car. Nor did it conclude there was any cause for concern over the engine 
performance or fuel economy. In light of what the report evidenced, I dont think it was unreasonable for VWFS to take the stance it did in declining Mr As claim that the car was 
not of satisfactory quality.
Mr A was, of course, at liberty to commission his own report in rebuttal. He took the car to W, 
who obtained a list of fault codes from the cars management unit. Having seen that list, I 
dont find it supports Mr As claim  most of the fault codes reported simply suggest low 
battery voltage, which wouldnt be inconsistent with Mr As minimal use of the car.
Mr A has since questioned the list W supplied to us, indicating his belief that other 
information is being withheld. I have no reasonable grounds to share this view. He has also 
provided photographs, short videos and sales particulars for other cars, which he believes 
demonstrate his arguments relating to the cars fuel consumption. Im afraid I dont agree 
that what Mr A has provided is sufficiently persuasive either that the car was itself faulty or 
that D misrepresented the achievable fuel economy to him.
I recognise Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. I dont doubt that his experience with 
the car in question fell some way below his expectations. And I understand thats a strong 
motivation for him to pursue what were no doubt for him valid concerns. But for the reasons 
Ive set out here, I dont consider VWFS to have dealt with Mr A unfairly when it considered 
his claims in relation to the car it supplied to him under the hire-purchase agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman