DRN-2007715
The complaint
Mrs M complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to her on 
multiple occasions. She says Buddy Loans did not complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks; and had it done so it wouldve seen the loans were unaffordable to her. She says 
she has lost out financially as a result by having to pay additional interest and charges. 
What happened
Mrs M was approved for two loans by Buddy Loans. They can be summarised below:
Loan Date Capital amount Term Monthly 
repayments
One November 2015 £2,000 36 months £97.58
Two July 2016 £3,000 36 months £146.37
  
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision on this complaint. I asked for both 
parties to respond with any further comments or information they wished to add. I set out my 
provisional findings as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently minded to partially change the outcome of Mrs Ms 
complaint. Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and 
unaffordable lending as well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs 
Ms complaint.
Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Ms 
complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs M, each 
time it lent, to satisfy itself that she was in a position repay the loans in a 
sustainable way?
-If so, did it make a fair decision to lend?
-If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M would have been able to 
do so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each question in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs M, each 
time it lent, to satisfy itself that she was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable 
way?
Turning to the first of two questions; the regulations which applied at the time, 
required Buddy Loans to carry out an assessment on whether Mrs M could repay any 
loan in sustainable way. These checks are referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
In making this affordability assessment, Buddy Loans needed to ensure any checks 
were borrower-focused. This means Buddy Loans needed to consider if any 
repayments Mrs M made would cause her any financial difficulties or have any 
adverse consequences on her finances. The checks also needed to be 
proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to 
be reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of 
repayments and total length of the term. In practice generally this means that the 
lower the income of an applicant, or the longer the term of any loan, the more 
thorough the checks need to be for them to be proportionate to the circumstances.
It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate checks. It also 
needs to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Loan one
Loan one was approved in November 2015 and was a capital amount of £2,000. The 
term of the loan was 36 months, with repayments at £97.58.
Buddy Loans says it completed an application for Mrs M which included her declaring 
her income, a verification of her bank account details and searching her credit file. 
The application form stated that Mrs M earned £1,200 which was the amount she 
declared. It also shows she has minor outgoings (approximately £250); and had three 
dependants. It also shows she was married at the time of the application.
Mrs Ms credit file shows that she had around £8,000 in existing credit debt which 
related mainly to a default of approximately £7,500. This default was applied around 
four years prior to Mrs Ms loan application. Her credit file also showed she had one 
active credit card with around 75% utilisation and a well-maintained payment history. 
Mrs M also had one active current account which was confirmed as a match via 
Buddy Loans bank validation check.
Buddy Loans says these checks combined showed that Mrs M had sufficient 
disposable income to meet the circa £98 monthly payments. It also says Mrs Ms 
credit file didnt show any undue concerns which meant it shouldve conducted 
further checks.
Mrs M says that Buddy Loans shouldve completed further checks, and had it done 
so it wouldve seen she was in financial hardship including being in arrears with her 
mortgage and her council tax. Ive carefully considered this argument, but I disagree 
with it; and Im minded to say the checks Buddy Loans completed in this instance 
were proportionate.Buddy Loans is required to complete proportionate checks; and carefully consider the 
information it is provided with. It is also entitled to rely on the information which it is 
provided, so long as there is nothing which sufficiently contradictory to it.
In this instance Mrs M has declared she had an income of £1,200; and has some 
moderate outgoings in the form of a credit card. This seems to be consistent with the 
information which Buddy Loans was provided with; and therefore I dont think it ought 
to have been alerted to potential further issues.
In particular I note that the credit file search it completed did not show any issues 
with the mortgage account. And any issues with Mrs Ms council tax wouldnt have 
shown on this check either. Ive not seen information which shows Mrs M made 
Buddy Loans aware of any further issues; and in the absence of any further 
information, Im not able to say Buddy Loans ought to have been reasonably aware 
of her circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs M did have a default on her account; however Im not persuaded 
this alone would be enough for Buddy Loans to be conduct further checks in this 
instance. Im also mindful that Mrs M did have an active credit card which was 
seemingly being managed well.
So for the above reasons Im currently minded to say the checks for loan one were 
proportionate.
Loan two
Loan two was approved in July 2016. It was for a capital amount of £3,000 for a 
further 36 month term. The repayments increased to £146.37.
Buddy Loans again completed an application form with Mrs M declaring her income 
at £1,200. It also completed a credit file search, as well as took more detailed 
expenditure from Mrs M. Mrs M declared her husband was responsible for meeting 
the mortgage repayments.
It says these checks showed that Mrs M still had sufficient disposable income to 
meet the repayments and therefore its checks were proportionate.
Ive carefully considered this argument however Im not satisfied these checks were 
proportionate. As Ive explained before, Buddy Loans needed not only to carry out 
checks, but to also carefully consider the information it was provided.
Considering this was the second loan in a relatively short time period (some eight 
months); I think there are sufficient questions to suggest Buddy Loans shouldve 
conducted further checks to verify the information it was being provided with, and to 
satisfy itself Mrs M could meet the increased repayments in a sustainable way.
In particular the credit file from loan two shows that Mrs Ms credit score had 
decreased since the first application. It also shows that her overall level of debt had 
increased from approximately £7,300 to £12,400; partly because of the existing 
Buddy Loans loan, but also across her other credit commitments and new products.
Notably her credit card balance had also increased from 75% utilisation to 97%; with 
the overall debt on these products doubling. Buddy Loans also noted in its 
expenditure check that Mrs Ms outgoings had also increased by nearly £300 since 
the first loan. There is also a recent entry for a missed payment on one of her existing credit commitments which had been opened since loan one had been 
approved.
With this in mind Im satisfied that Buddy Loans shouldve taken further steps to 
verify if Mrs M could sustainably meet the increased repayments. So it follows Im not 
satisfied Buddy Loans conducted proportionate checks in relation to loan two.
Would further checks have shown that Mrs M would have been able to meet the 
repayments in a sustainable way?
Loan one
Ive set out above why Im satisfied Buddy Loans conducted proportionate checks in 
relation to this loan. As such it follows, Im satisfied its decision to lend loan one was 
reasonable, and I make no further provisional finding in relation to it.
Loan two
As Im satisfied proportionate checks werent completed for loan two I need to 
consider what further checks wouldve shown. Ive explained why I dont think the 
checks were proportionate, and as such Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve done 
more to verify Mrs Ms income and outgoings. It couldve done this in a number of 
ways including asking for bills, or copies of bank statements (amongst others).
Mrs M has provided our service with copies of her bank statements from the time of 
the loan; as well as copies of her mortgage arrears and council tax arrears.
Looking through the statements it is clear that Mrs Ms was managing her finances to 
a very tight margin. She is frequently close to her overdraft, with small amounts of 
money left over each month. They also seem to show that her income was lower 
than the amount she had declared, meaning that the amount of disposable income 
she had left each month was not sufficient to meet any increased in repayments 
sustainably.
As Buddy Loans is aware, sustainably repaying means without requiring Mrs M to 
borrow more or incurring financial difficulties.She has also provided copies of her 
joint account with her partner, which show a similar story. Namely that they are 
managing their finances to a very tight budget; and not with a sufficient amount of 
income to support her three dependants and meet the repayments sustainably.
The signs of Mrs Ms mortgage arrears and council tax arrears are not evident on 
these statements; and as Mrs M confirmed her husband was responsible for 
meeting the mortgage payments, I dont find this surprising. However; Im satisfied 
they do show that Mrs M wouldve been unable to meet the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to say this loan was unaffordable and 
Buddy Loans wouldve realised this had it conducted further checks.
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly in any other way?
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Im minded to say Buddy Loans has acted 
reasonably and fairly in relation to handling of Mrs Ms loans. I note she is currentlydiscussing a repayment plan with Buddy Loans and this is what I would expect to 
see.
Buddy Loans responded to my provisional decision saying it had nothing further to add. Mrs 
M responded agreeing to the points I had made in relation to loan two. However, she 
disagreed with my findings in relation to loan one. Mrs M maintained Buddy Loans shouldve 
completed further checks before lending loan one. She explained she was unsure why her 
mortgage record did not show up when Buddy Loans completed the initial search, but she 
argued it knew she had one as it was stated on her application. She also questioned 
whether Buddy Loans shouldve verified her income before lending loan one to her. Mrs M 
also provided further bank statements to support her position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to change from my provisional decision. Id like to assure 
Mrs M that Ive carefully considered her arguments and further information before coming to 
this decision.
Loan one
Mrs M says she is unsure why her mortgage wasnt showing on her credit file, as well as 
asking if Buddy Loans shouldve verified her income. 
In relation to the checking of her income; Ive explained in my provisional findings why I was 
satisfied Buddy Loans had completed proportionate checks and as such why it didnt need to 
conduct further verification. This was because Buddy Loans had asked for details of Mrs M 
income and expenditure, as well as verifying her bank details electronically. It had also 
searched Mrs Ms credit file and the information it received was consistent with Mrs Ms 
application form. These checks showed that Mrs M had sufficient disposable income to meet 
the repayments; and considering the amount and term of the loan Im satisfied they were 
proportionate in this instance. Whilst I appreciate Mrs M disagrees they were proportionate, 
Ive not seen any information which would change this opinion, and as such Im satisfied 
they were proportionate. It follows that I therefore dont agree Buddy Loans needed to verify 
Mrs Ms income further.
In relation to the credit file not showing Mrs Ms mortgage status; Mrs M says she is unsure 
why this wasnt the case, and Buddy Loans shouldve been aware of it because shed 
mentioned it in her application. Buddy Loans is entitled to rely on the information it received 
and was given at the time of the application. In this instance, Buddy Loans has provided us 
the credit file search and it doesnt show Mrs Ms mortgage status. Whilst I dont doubt the 
mortgage existed at that point in time, Buddy Loans is entitled to rely on the information it 
received. And in this instance, there was no suggestion via Mrs Ms own application or the 
credit file search that there was an issue with her mortgage. In the absence of any other 
compelling evidence to the contrary, it follows that Im satisfied Buddy Loans acted fairly in 
relation to this aspect of Mrs Ms complaint. Im also satisfied for the reasons highlighted 
above that the rest of Buddy Loans checks in relation to loan one were proportionate; and 
therefore Im satisfied its decision to lend loan one was reasonable in this instance.
Loan twoAs both parties agreed with my findings in relation to loan two, I feel no need to change from 
my provisional decision. That is, Im satisfied loan two should not have been lent to Mrs M as 
Buddy Loans did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. And had it done so, it 
wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to Mrs M. This is for the reasons Ive highlighted in 
my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Buddy Loans to:
To rework Mrs M account in relation to loan two; removing all interest and charges 
applied on it from the outset, so that the amount Mrs M pays for the loan does not 
exceed the capital borrowed. The repayments Mrs M made should be deducted from 
this amount. 
a) If this results in Mrs M having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement).
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs M.
To remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to loan 
two.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy
Loans must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman