DRN-3228237
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has stopped him accessing his online banking.
What happened
Mr H is a pensioner who has been a customer of Lloyds Bank for many years. He has two 
accounts with Lloyds Bank  an account with a debit card and an account with a credit card. 
He also has a credit card with another bank, but he only uses that card once a year.
In December 2020 Mr H complained to Lloyds Bank saying that he couldnt access his 
accounts online as Lloyds Bank had made changes to its logging in process. The changes 
meant he needed a mobile phone or a landline to receive a one-time passcode or a 
computer that he could make a trusted device. Mr H said hed been using internet banking 
for many years and used internet cafes. He said that he was hard of hearing and technically 
challenged and that he wanted to carry on using the method of logging on that Lloyds Bank 
had in place before the changes had taken place. He was in France when he complained.
Lloyds Bank investigated Mr Hs complaint and said that it had made changes to its 
processes in order to implement strong customer authentication. It said its customers had 
four options: namely, receiving a one-time passcode on a UK mobile, using its mobile 
banking app, receiving an automated call to any telephone number or using a trusted 
device. Lloyds Bank accepted that two of these options wouldnt work for Mr H as he didnt 
have a UK mobile number or use its mobile app, that the second option wouldnt work as he 
didnt want to use the telephone and that the final option  using a trusted device  
wouldnt work as Mr H used internet cafes. Lloyds Bank said that Mr H could visit one of its 
branches and carry out his banking there once he returned to the UK, but that he wouldnt be 
able to use internet banking in the meantime. Mr H was unhappy and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said that Lloyds Bank hadnt acted 
unfairly when it made changes to its processes in order to implement strong customer 
authentication  an important measure to combat fraud. But Lloyds Bank had acted unfairly 
in Mr Hs case because it hadnt offered him an alternative way to authenticate that was 
viable for him given his particular circumstances. Our investigator recommended that Lloyds 
Bank pay Mr H £200 in compensation and offer him an alternative way of authenticating that 
was viable for him. In response, Lloyds Bank offered to update Mr Hs address on its system 
so hed receive statements in the post allowing him to manage his account. But it said that 
Mr H wouldnt be able to log into his account unless and until he had a UK number. Mr H 
was unhappy with Lloyds Banks response and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds Bank has told us that it made changes to its processes in order to implement new 
regulations that came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector  
namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those regulations required 
payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain 
circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which 
says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank changed its processes  he wants to be 
able to carry on logging on the way he had done before  and unhappy that the changes 
involved him having to own his own phone or computer.Lloyds Banks approach to implementing strong customer authentication
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Lloyds Bank to implement strong customer 
authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud. Mr H would like to carry on 
logging onto online banking the way he used to. I can understand why hes said this, but I 
dont agree with him that I should be telling Lloyds Bank not to implement strong customer 
authentication measures for his account. I do, however, agree with our investigator that 
Lloyds Bank needs to offer alternative ways of authenticating that are viable for customers 
like Mr H. Id like to explain what the FCA has said about strong customer authentication and 
its expectations first before saying what I think that means in this case.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Why is Mr H complaining?
Mr H is complaining about two things, broadly speaking, namely that he doesnt like the fact 
that Lloyds Bank has changed its processes  hed rather go back to the old way of logging 
on  and hes not happy with the options Lloyds Bank offers. Lloyds Bank offered four 
options and, in the course of this complaint, its accepted that none of them work particularly 
well for Mr H.
Should Lloyds Bank have done more for Mr H?
One of the options that Lloyds Bank offered relied on Mr H having a UK mobile phone 
number  thats a problem for Mr H as he was living in France at the time (and still is) and he 
doesnt use phones as hes hard of hearing. Lloyds Bank has pointed out that Mr Hs 
account is meant for UK residents only, and that there are some services its unable to offer non-UK residents, so this wasnt necessarily unfair. I accept some  but not all  of Lloyds 
Banks points on this question. Mr H, for example, was clearly eligible when he originally 
applied for the account. And he didnt have any problems continuing to use it when he 
moved to France. His problems only started when Lloyds Bank implemented strong 
customer authentication. More importantly, however, in this case I dont think the question of 
whether or not Mr H is living in the UK is key. I say that because even if Mr H was a UK 
resident, theres still the fact that he doesnt use phones as hes hard of hearing. In short, 
none of the options that Lloyds Bank offer that rely on phones are attractive to Mr H, and 
understandably so.
Shortly after I started looking into this complaint, Lloyds Bank said that it was planning to 
introduce an option to authenticate using a token. I explored the token with Lloyds Bank 
further as it looked like it might solve Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, it became clear that 
the token only allows customers to authenticate when theyre doing online shopping  it 
doesnt allow them to authenticate when theyre doing online banking. Thats important 
because Mr H is only interested in online banking, so the token doesnt help.
Lloyds Bank then offered to help Mr H buy a basic mobile phone  on which he could receive 
one-time passcodes  and to pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced in the meantime. I put this offer to Mr H  notwithstanding the fact that I thought 
he was very unlikely to accept it given that he doesnt want a solution that involves phones 
or is too technical. He wasnt interested - again understandably so. It means Lloyds Bank 
hasnt been able to find a solution that works for Mr H.
Putting things right
Its disappointing that Lloyds Bank hasnt been able to find a solution that works for Mr H, 
particularly in light of what the FCA has said. It means Mr H wont be able to manage his 
account the way hed like to. Lloyds Bank have, in the circumstances, offered to pay Mr H 
£500 in compensation in full and final settlement of his complaint  reflecting the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced to date and the fact that he wont be able to manage 
his account the way hed like to going forwards. In this particular case, given the overall 
impact on Mr H, I think this offer is fair.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr H £500 in full and final settlement of 
his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman