DRN-2882975
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) caused him to miss out on 
the chance to make investments, when it failed to act on his instructions to cancel the Junior-
ISAs (JISA) he had for his sons.
The JISAs were previously with another provider that for the purposes of this decision Ill 
refer to as H.
What happened
Mr R has two sons N and K, each had a JISA with H. In August 2020 Mr R opened each of 
them a JISA with NS&I and completed a transfer request in September 2020.
A week later Mr R became aware that the interest rate with NS&I would be dropping to 1.5%. 
Because of this he called NS&I to cancel the accounts and transfers. 
NS&I successfully cancelled the JISA for N, although H did initially transfer the money 
through for it, NS&I returned it to H within days.
NS&I didnt cancel the JISA for K and so when H transferred the funds, on 13 October 2020 
 they were credited to Ks JISA.
Mr R complained to NS&I as he was unsure what had happened to his childrens money, as 
their JISAs with it and H were all showing a zero balance. He was also upset with the service 
he had received. 
NS&I upheld Mr Rs complaint in part  in summary it said:
Ns cancellation had been carried out as requested. Ns funds had been returned to 
H  and Mr R should contact it to determine the whereabouts of the funds.
The request to cancel Ks JISA and transfer had been overlooked and the transfer 
had been completed on 4 December 2020  but the funds had been credited and 
accruing interest from 13 October 2020 (when it received them from H). If Mr R 
wanted to move these funds now  he would have to complete a transfer request 
with the new provider.
The NS&I advisers hadnt been clear on the calls about the cancellation process and 
had led Mr R to believe the funds would be returned in a matter of days.
It offered £75 for the frustration caused by the way the request had been handled.
NS&I later contacted H to see if Ks original JISA was still open so it could return the funds to 
it, in order to save Mr R the hassle of completing a new transfer request. H said this wasnt 
possible and so NS&I increased its compensation award from £75 to £200 for the 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr R remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said:
he still had no idea where Ns funds were
both boys had missed out on the opportunity to invest in a particular fund (V), with 
another provider, that had performed at more than 20% between October 2020 and 
January 2021.
The investigator that looked into the case didnt uphold it, Ive summarised the reasons 
below:
Ns money had been returned to H, so she didnt think NS&I had acted unreasonably 
when dealing with his JISA. She understood that Mr R wasnt aware it had been 
returned (as it was no longer showing on Hs online portal)  but this wasnt NS&Is 
fault.  
She agreed Ks JISA should have been cancelled and this had caused considerable 
upset and frustration to Mr R, but the £200 NS&I had paid was fair in the 
circumstances.
She couldnt fairly ask NS&I to compensate for the loss of opportunity as she didnt 
feel there was enough evidence to reasonably prove how Mr R would have invested 
the funds if both cancellations had been carried out as requested.
Mr R disagreed, he said he would accept £500  he felt this was fair as this was less than 
what both boys would have achieved had they been able to invest in V. And that NS&I had 
acted outside of regulation and law in trying to move Ks funds back to H without his 
authority, and so the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so I 
wont be upholding this complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, Ill 
explain.
Ns JISA
Mr R requested that the JISA was cancelled, and the transfer stopped, this was completed 
as requested. H still transferred the monies for this account, but NS&I returned them within 
two days of receiving them. This meant that when Mr Checked online Ns NS&I JISA showed 
a zero balance. Mr R said that Ns JISA with H also showed a zero balance at the same 
time. 
It has since transpired, H had closed Ns JISA with it and so the balance was in one of its 
suspense accounts, but when Mr R checked with H it said it hadnt received the monies 
back. I completely understand that this would have caused Mr R to worry at the time, but this 
isnt something I can fairly hold NS&I responsible for. I say this as it had acted correctly on 
Mr Rs request to cancel the JISA. And as the funds were returned within days, I dont agree 
that N lost out on an opportunity to invest in V, because of NS&Is actions.
Ks accountThere is no dispute about the cancellation on Ks JISA being overlooked by NS&I. It 
confirmed it received the funds from H on 13 October 2020, although it has said the transfer 
wasnt keyed until 4 December 2020. This means that like Ns JISA the balance was 
showing as zero when Mr R checked online. NS&I has said the delay in keying the account 
was caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. But it has confirmed interest started accruing from 
the day the funds were first received, so he hasnt lost out on any interest from it.
I dont believe NS&Is attempts to try and return the funds to H was outside of regulation or 
the law  I think NS&I was trying to put right its error while trying to avoid causing any further 
inconvenience to Mr R.
Overall, I believe that the £200 NS&I has paid Mr R for this error is fair and inline with what 
Id expect.
Loss of opportunity
Mr R has told me that he invested a couple of hundred pounds of his own money in V. He 
has provided me evidence of the funds performance across that period. And has told me 
that he learned of that fund through reading about it around October 2020. But he hasnt 
provided any substantial evidence to support that this is what he would have done with N 
and Ks funds.
N and K are separate individuals and their accounts are not linked. I understand Mr Rs 
strength of feeling about them both having equal funds in their accounts up until the error by 
NS&I. But I must look at each account and any errors separately. And so, I cannot say that 
because Ks account wasnt cancelled this prevented Mr R investing Ns funds. 
Had Mr R invested Ns funds in anyway then I would have been more persuaded that he 
would likely have done the same with Ks. And so, any profit or interest N had made over 
and above what K had received may have been Ks loss. But the absence of this, coupled 
with the fact that NS&I have never denied Mr R access to the funds through transferring 
them, I cant fairly say that there has been a loss of opportunity for either of the boys due to 
NS&Is actions.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with NS&I  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman