DRN-1352586
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were unable to port their mortgage product to a property 
that they already owned and so had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) when they 
sold their mortgaged property. Mr and Mrs W would like Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
The Woolwich to refund the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage with The Woolwich since 2001 which they have been paying 
off since then. In July 2017 they bought a plot of land to build a house and over the next 15 
months built a house on it mainly from their savings. In October 2017, they applied and got a 
further mortgage of £88,000 on their existing property at a fixed rate for two years expiring 
January 2020. Mr and Mrs W say that at an interview with a mortgage adviser, they 
discussed a one or two year fixed rate. They decided on the two year fixed rate as it gave 
them time to sell the house and because they say that the mortgage adviser told them that 
they could port the mortgage product to the new property. 
Mr and Mrs W moved into the new property and were going to sell their existing property in 
the summer of 2019 when The Woolwich told them that if they sold their existing property, 
they couldnt port the mortgage product to a property they already owned and so, would 
have to pay an ERC. Mr and Mrs W offered The Woolwich a number of compromise 
solutions including paying the interest until the end of the mortgage term, but The Woolwich 
didnt agree. Mr and Mrs W redeemed the mortgage in July 2019 and paid an ERC of 
£2,176.38.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that at the 
meeting between the mortgage adviser and Mr and Mrs W that it was unlikely that the 
adviser would have said that Mr and Mrs W could have ported their mortgage product 
between properties they owned as thats not allowed generally in the industry and the 
mortgage adviser would have known that. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given a great deal of thought to this case. In part I have to decide what is likely to have 
been said in a conversation in 2017 where there is no taped record but some notes and 
some recollections. Mr and Mrs W took out a two-year fixed rate mortgage product on their 
existing property. The mortgage offer that they accepted says at Part 10 that an ERC is 
payable until January 2020 but that if they buy another property to move to, they can transfer 
their interest rate to a new mortgage for the purchased property. So, they could port if they 
bought another property to move to and subject to The Woolwichs lending criteria. But Mr 
and Mrs W had already bought a piece of land that they were building on.
Mr and Mrs W had a meeting with a Woolwich mortgage adviser. They wanted to raise some 
money presumably as cheaply as possible given they were building a new house to move 
into. They would sell their existing one when the new build completed. Mr and Mrs W say 
that they discussed a one year or two-year fixed rate. The felt more comfortable with the two 
year and say that they asked if there was any problem moving the mortgage over from the 
old house to the new house when built and they say that mortgage adviser said No, it would 
be easy . But there was an issue as the The Woolwich in common with other lenders dont 
allow porting to a property that the borrower already owns.
This was a rather unusual transaction. Mr and Mrs W were taking out a loan on their old 
property to build a new one. When the old property was sold, they would be able to pay off 
the mortgage on the old property, but they say that they wanted to transfer the mortgage to 
the new property until the end of the two year fixed period. So, although the mortgage could 
have been redeemed, they were happy to pay interest on it for the two year period. There 
are some notes attached to the application. Its recorded that Mr and Mrs W have £90,000 in 
savings of which £40,000 will be used towards another property. So, the adviser was aware 
that Mr and Mrs W were building another property. If Mr and Mrs W wanted to move from 
their old property to the new property within the two years this should have caused the 
adviser to consider the implications of whether Mr and Mrs W could port. But the adviser 
doesnt record anything about that. She records that Mr and Mrs W will review the mortgage 
in two years time as anything longer wouldnt fit within their plans.
So, my view of The Woolwich record is that the adviser understood that the mortgage would 
be in place for two years. That is also Mr and Mrs Ws understanding, but they say that the 
mortgage product could be moved to the new property as they were told that this would be 
simple. The problem I have with that is if Mr and Mrs W had been told they would be able to 
port, it wouldnt have been easy in any case. Given, that it would be a new mortgage on a 
new property there would be likely be an extended application. As a new property there 
would likely be a valuation of the property and a cost to that. There would also have been 
legal fees to check the ownership of the property and to register The Woolwichs interest in 
the property for the short period remaining on the two years. 
Mr and Mrs W dont say that there was such a discussion. I know they are financially prudent 
people and if porting was discussed and had been possible its likely that they would also 
have wanted to know the cost of porting to compare the cost of the one year fixed rate with 
time on the standard variable rate and the cost of two year fixed rate with a port but the 
associated fees.. But there is no mention of that. So, I find it difficult to accept that even if the 
mortgage adviser failed to understand what is set out in the mortgage offer and in The 
Woolwichs lending criteria which was that Mr and Mrs W couldnt port to a property they 
already owned, that there wasnt then a further discussion about the cost of taking out a 
mortgage on their new property. But Mr and Mrs W say nothing about that, and I must 
accept that didnt take place.
There is here a dispute about what was discussed in a conversation in 2017. There is a 
partial written record prepared by the mortgage adviser on the application and Mr Ws 
recollection which is written down about 18 months later. I have to decide on balance what is 
likely to have been discussed. For the reasons Ive stated I think its unlikely that the 
mortgage adviser would have told Mr and Mrs W that any porting was easy. If the mortgage 
adviser had said that porting was allowed there would be a cost to it, and I would have 
expected Mr and Mrs W to have discussed that cost with the mortgage adviser. The absence 
of such a discussion leads me to believe that the mortgage adviser didnt tell Mr and Mrs W 
that they could port the mortgage product in the circumstances they describe.  
My view is that it most likely that Mr and Mrs W believed that they required at least two years 
to finish the new build and sell their own property and the new loan was set up on that basis. 
It seems that they may have been able to finish their new build and sell their own earlier than 
they had anticipated when they took out the loan but I dont find that the mortgage adviser, in 
breach of The Woolwichs lending criteria, agreed that they could port this mortgage to a property they already owned. So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I note that 
The Woolwich has offered £200 by way of apology for any incorrect information that was 
provided although it doesnt refer to any. I will leave it to Mr and Mrs W if they wish to accept 
that. I should say that, in my view, I dont believe such an offer compromised its position nor 
did Mr and Mrs Ws offer of a compromise solution prejudice theirs.         
     
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman