DRN-2842527
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined a claim she made on 
her pet insurance policy.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points.
Mrs R bought her pet dog, D, from someone Ill refer to as B. She insured D with 
Great Lakes.
Mrs R discovered D required medical treatment and made a claim to Great Lakes for 
the cost of it.
Great Lakes declined the claim because it said D was suffering from a pre-existing 
condition.
Mrs R didnt think this was fair. She said she was unaware of the condition when she 
bought D and took out the Great Lakes insurance policy.
Great Lakes said B should have told Mrs R about the condition. And if they didnt, 
this is something Mrs R should take up with B. Great Lakes considered Mrs R should 
have made enquiries into Ds medical history before buying it.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. He accepted the condition 
existed before the start of the policy. But as he was satisfied Mrs R hadnt been 
aware of it, he didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said the policy term about pre-existing conditions wasnt 
owner-specific. And as the condition was pre-existing, it was fair to decline the claim.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view the investigator reached for the following reasons:
The policy covers the cost of treatment recommended by a vet  but not for any pre-
existing conditions. Thats defined in the policy as anything a pet has had treatment, 
medication or advice about in the last 24 months.
Records from Mrs Rs vet shows D was treated for a heart murmur in October. And 
records from Bs vet shows D was diagnosed with a heart murmur in September  
prior to Mrs R owning her or the Great Lakes policy starting.
Im satisfied the condition D was treated for, and which Mrs R has claimed for, was 
pre-existing as advice had been received about it within the previous 24 months.
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair to decline Mrs Rs claim for this 
reason. Ive thought about whether Mrs R knew, or ought to have known, that there 
was something wrong with D, which may have required investigation or treatment, 
when she took out the policy.
Great Lakes has referred to guidance found on a pet website. In summary it suggests 
the buyer should ensure the seller is honest about the pet. Great Lakes also said it 
was a consumers responsibility to make enquiries about the pets medical records 
before agreeing to buy it.
Whilst I dont disagree that finding out more about a pet and the seller before 
committing to a purchase is reasonable guidance in general, it doesnt appear in the 
Great Lakes insurance policy. So Im not persuaded it was guidance Mrs R was 
required to follow in order for a claim to be accepted.
Despite that, Mrs R did make enquiries with B prior to buying D. Ive seen messages 
which show B telling Mrs R the vet hadnt picked up on anything and D was happy 
and healthy.
At the time Mrs R bought D, it had been seen twice by a vet the previous week. It had 
been owned by B since birth and was around two months old.
In these circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Mrs R to understand that if D 
had any medical problems, they would have been identified by the vet and B would 
have been aware of them. Given what she was told by B, Im satisfied she had no 
reason to suspect D was suffering from any medical problems or to consider it 
necessary to seek medical records. Because of that, Im not satisfied it would be fair 
for Great Lakes to decline the claim for a pre-existing condition.
 
Putting things right
To put things right, Great Lakes should accept the claim and settle it for the cost of 
treatment, which totals £4,634.36.
Mrs R says the treatment was funded by taking out a loan for £5,000, which will incur 
£597.32 of interest. The loan is for a similar amount to the cost of treatment and was 
taken out shortly after the treatment was performed. And Mrs R paid the vet shortly 
after receiving the loan funds. Because of this, Im satisfied the loan was taken out to 
pay for the treatment. And if the claim had been accepted by Great Lakes, the loan 
wouldnt have been taken out. To put things right, Great Lakes should cover the cost 
of interest on the loan.
Mrs R also says she had to cancel a holiday as a result of the claim being declined, 
and this caused her to lose out financially. The investigator didnt think there was a 
clear link between the claim being declined and the holiday cancellation and Mrs R 
seems to have accepted this. I agree with the investigator  Im not persuaded Great 
Lakes declining the claim has caused this loss.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.For the reasons above, I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay £4,634.36 to settle the claim;
Pay £597.32 to cover the cost of interest.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman