DRN-3978424
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Nationwide Building Society placed a block on his account and requested 
he provide further identification before he can use his account again.      
What happened
Mr T holds a FlexBasic current account with Nationwide.
On or around 8 June 2022, Mr T received a payment into his account of £1,000. However, 
he discovered he wasnt able to access his account. So, he called into a Nationwide branch 
to find out what the problem was.
Nationwide told Mr T their records showed his account had been blocked and he needed to 
provide up to date identification for their files. They said their decision was due to the 
requirements of their regulator.
Mr T wasnt happy with Nationwides explanation. He said theyd blocked his account without 
any warning or notice. Nationwide said theyd written to him on 9 June 2022 to explain why 
his account was blocked and detailing the information needed to provide so the restriction 
could be lifted. Mr T said he hadnt received any letters about their requirements before the 
restriction was applied.
Mr T was unhappy with Nationwides actions. He said he wasnt willing to provide the 
identification they needed and wanted them to provide evidence of their regulators 
requirements and proof theyd written to him about this.
Nationwide responded to Mr Ts complaint in a letter dated 27 June 2022. They said their 
actions complied with the Wire Transfer Regulation. They said a breach occurs when a 
member is transacting on their account (specifically over €1,000 or equivalent in £GBP 
within a 7-day period) without sufficient identification on the system. They said theyd written 
to Mr T on 9 June 2022 to explain this. They didnt agree thered been an error as this was a 
requirement of their regulator.
Mr T wasnt happy with Nationwides response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Nationwide had 
done anything wrong and thought theyd been clear in explaining what had triggered the 
restriction on his account and what he needed to do to enable the restriction to be lifted.
Mr T didnt agree with out investigators findings. He said Nationwides letter had referred to 
a previous letter theyd sent before the block was applied. He said he hadnt received that 
which meant he was given no notice of the account block.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ts complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further. In doing so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023  giving both Mr T and Nationwide the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below before I reached a final decision. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Nationwide explained their decision and actions comply with the requirements of the 
Wire Transfer Regulation (WTR). 
The WTR ((EU) 2015/847) forms part of the UKs general Anti Money Laundering 
(AML) rules and regulations. The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020 and the Trade 
and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) was concluded on 24 December 2020. 
However, the Withdrawal Agreement 2019 continues to apply. Its also relevant that 
there have been no immediate changes to the AML framework for the UK since 31 
December 2020. So, the WTR still applies.
The WTR sets out various responsibilities and requirements that payment service 
providers must comply with. And as Nationwide are a payment service provider, they 
are bound by those requirements. In particular the WTR says, In the case of 
transfers exceeding €1,000  before  making funds available to the payee, the 
payment service provider of the payee shall verify the accuracy of the information on 
the payee . The WTR specifies how this should be done and includes specific 
requirements to identify the payee  in this case, Mr T.
The transfer received into Mr Ts account was flagged by Nationwides systems to 
check their records complied with the WTR. Unfortunately, that check showed they 
didnt hold sufficient identification on their files to ensure they complied. In order to 
comply with the WTR, Nationwides process was to restrict Mr Ts account until 
identification to meet the WTR was obtained.
Nationwides records show they wrote to Mr T on 9 June 2022, the day after the 
funds were received. They explained that the account had been restricted and gave 
details of what Mr T needed to do to enable the restriction to be lifted. Mr T 
suggested their letter followed previous correspondence that he hadnt received. But 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Nationwide had previously written to Mr T 
about this. The letter was specifically prompted by the deposit received into his 
account. And as they wrote promptly and clearly explaining what was required, 
Nationwide appear to have acted swiftly and appropriately here.
Unfortunately, Nationwides process meant Mr T didnt have access to the existing 
funds held on his account. Funds that Nationwide hadnt previously shown or 
expressed any concern about. Nationwide said they needed to comply with the 
requirements of the WTR. These specify actions they must take before crediting Mr 
Ts account or making the funds available to him.
I asked Nationwide to explain why they werent happy to allow Mr T access to the 
funds already held on his account and whether the £1,000 received couldve been 
ringfenced rather than blocking the account completely. In response, Nationwide 
said, their infrastructure does not allow the targeting of specific payment(s) that will 
cause this breach, therefore, to ensure Nationwide meets its (stet) legal and 
regulatory requirements the account was blocked in its entirety.
It isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter its policies and procedures or 
impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These 
aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether Nationwide have been fair and 
reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ts experience with them, taking into account the 
relevant rules and regulations where they apply. 
Ive thought carefully about Nationwides actions here and whether they shouldve 
reasonably done anything more to minimise the impact on Mr T. Accepting their own 
infrastructure restrictions, I think they shouldve done more to help and support him, 
still ensuring they complied with the requirements of the WTR and at least ensuring 
Mr T still had access to his existing funds. By applying their own policies and 
procedures rigidly here, I think this led to Mr T being treated unfairly.In conclusion, I dont believe Nationwides requirement for up-to-date identification 
from Mr T was unreasonable. They have a responsibility to ensure they comply with 
the overriding regulations and rules at all times. But I also believe Nationwide 
shouldve done more to help Mr T in accessing his existing funds. And because of 
that, I intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Ive gone on to think about the impact Nationwides actions had on Mr T. In speaking 
to our investigator, Mr T explained he was desperate for money. And because he 
couldnt access his account, there was some planned discretionary expenditure he 
couldnt make.
Mr T hasnt made any suggestion that he was unable to meet day to day living 
expenses. But I do appreciate his experience would have been frustrating and 
distressing. Not least because he was unable to access funds as and when he 
required. For that reason, I intend to ask Nationwide to compensate Mr T for this.
Despite being made aware of Nationwides requirements, Mr T told our investigator he didnt 
want to provide identification on principle. He thought they should lift the account restriction 
first whereupon he would provide the requested identification. I do appreciate Mr Ts 
frustrations here. But I also think it was within his control to resolve matters sooner ensuring 
Nationwide could lift his account restriction. So, Ive reflected this in the award I intend to 
propose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to my provisional decision, Mr T thought the compensation proposed wasnt 
enough and didnt take into account various issues he thought hadnt been addressed.
In particular, Mr T said:
hed heard no more from Nationwide about his complaint;
he wasnt happy about his interactions with Nationwide, particularly as branch staff 
werent able to explain why his account had been blocked to his satisfaction;
Nationwides actions had caused distress for the originator of the payment hed 
received;
previous similar transactions had not been challenged suggesting Nationwides own 
processes were inconsistently applied;
Nationwide took six weeks to respond to his complaint; and
Nationwide shouldve warned him before blocking his account.
Mr T also feels suspicious about Nationwides requirements and procedures here.
Nationwide asked for more time to consider my findings on several occasions. But, as yet 
theyve still not provided any additional comments or evidence. And given the time thats 
now elapsed since my provisional decision, I think its only fair and reasonable that Mr T 
receives a final decision regarding his complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said that Nationwide had issued a final response to Mr Ts 
complaint on 27 June 2022, after which Mr T referred his complaint to this service. In that 
response, they asked Mr T to visit his local branch to provide confirmation of his identity so 
that the blocks can be removed. So, whether or not Mr T agreed with the outcome of his 
complaint, I think it was clear what he needed to do next to ensure he could access his 
account going forward. I dont think Nationwide were necessarily required to discuss Mr Ts complaint further with him before this service had completed investigations. So, I cant 
reasonably say that Nationwide did anything wrong by not responding further to Mr Ts 
complaint. Theyd already made their position clear.
Ive already explained the reasons why Nationwide withheld the funds they received and 
blocked Mr Ts account. Their process was intended to meet the requirements of the WTR. 
Nationwides actions were triggered by the payment received. And because of that, they 
wrote to Mr T to explain their requirements on 9 June 2022, the day after the payment was 
received. As I said in my provisional decision, I agree Nationwide needed to comply with the 
WTR and I also think Nationwide acted fairly and swiftly by writing to him the following day. I 
dont agree Nationwide were required to give Mr T advance notice of their actions. They 
wouldnt have known the payment was due into his account before it was actually received.
As regards previous transactions, I cant comment on those as they dont form part of Mr Ts 
original complaint. But as Ive already explained, on the basis these werent previously 
flagged and Nationwide showed no previous concerns, I dont think it was fair that they 
blocked access to funds already held for Mr T. 
On a final point, while I understand and appreciate that the originator of the payment to Mr T 
may well have been distressed and concerned as a result of Nationwides actions, because 
they arent party to Mr T s account or his complaint, Im unable to consider that aspect. They 
arent an eligible complainant within the context of Mr Ts complaint.
Summary
Having considered Mr Ts response to my provisional decision very carefully, Ive not seen 
anything that persuades me to vary from my original findings. So, I wont be changing the 
outcome I previously proposed. If he hasnt already done so, I would urge Mr T to provide 
Nationwide with the necessary identification documentation so that the restricted funds can 
be released to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I require Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation to Mr T of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman