DRN-3974004
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way AWP P&C SA handled claims she made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R holds travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In March 2022, Miss R travelled abroad on holiday and planned to travel on a cruise. 
Unfortunately, a couple of days after her arrival, she tested positive for Covid-19 and was 
required to self-isolate in her hotel room. Therefore, she missed her cruise. She had to 
extend her trip by two days. So Miss R made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the 
costs shed incurred.
AWP decided to split Miss Rs claim in two  into a medical expenses claim and a 
curtailment claim. It settled Miss Rs medical expenses claim in August 2022. But despite 
Miss R chasing things up and complaining about delays in the claims handling process, the 
curtailment claim remained outstanding. Miss R asked us to look into her complaint.
In late November 2022, AWP settled Miss Rs curtailment claim. It also offered Miss R £50 
compensation to recognise the delays in its handling of the claim. Miss R didnt think this 
offer of compensation was enough to recognise the effect the delays had had on her.
Our investigator recommended that AWP should pay Miss R a total of £300 compensation. 
Although AWP had said it had experienced a high volume of claims, he felt thered been a 
period of around seven months during which AWP hadnt progressed the claim. And he 
thought thered been a lack of communication from AWP during the claims process. He 
considered £300 compensation was a fair award to recognise Miss Rs trouble and upset.
Miss R accepted the investigators assessment.
AWP disagreed. It made an offer of £200 compensation, as it felt £300 was on the high side, 
in comparison with awards our service had previously made.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions and Ill explain why.
At the outset, its important I make it clear that this decision will only consider the way that 
AWP handled Miss Rs claims. It appears that Miss R may be unhappy with the settlement 
shes been paid for her claims. As our investigator explained, before we can look into a 
complaint about the settlement Miss R was paid (including whether AWP took into account 
any credit card charges she may have incurred solely due to the claims when it calculated 
settlement), it must be given a chance to look into those particular issues. If Miss R is 
unhappy with the outcome of any complaint about the amount AWP has paid in settlement of 
the claims, she may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, AWP now accepts that there were unacceptable delays in the way it handled Miss 
Rs claim. And it agrees that compensation over and above its initial offer of £50 should be 
paid. So Ive considered what I think fair and reasonable compensation should be.
From the evidence AWP has provided, its clear that Miss R notified its medical assistance 
team of her situation on 14 March 2022  while she was quarantined in her hotel room. It 
appears that claim forms were sent around a week later. In May 2022, Miss R called up to 
check the progress of the claim and she says she was told shed been forwarded the wrong 
forms previously. Miss R sent the relevant documents a few days later.
Miss R called AWP for updates in June and on a number of occasions during July. At points 
she was told that AWP was working on older cases and it appears she told AWP that she 
was incurring credit card charges. Around a month later, Miss R called again and AWP 
noted that Miss R was frustrated that only her medical expenses claim had been settled. And 
on 31 August 2022, AWP notes say that during a call, Miss R had become very upset, as 
shed been waiting for six months; was incurring charges and was struggling with long Covid. 
It also appears she was told she needed to send in further information.
In early October 2022, Miss R had to call AWP again, to chase up the progress of the claim. 
Again, the notes say that Miss R was very upset and frustrated. The notes indicate that Miss 
R was promised a call back within a few days, but it isnt clear whether this was ever made. 
Instead, the curtailment claim doesnt appear to have been settled until late November 2022 
 around eight months after the claims had been made.
AWPs records, and indeed, Miss Rs testimony, indicate that Miss Rs claims were 
prolonged over a number of months. As the investigator said, it seems that for a number of 
those months, AWP simply wasnt progressing the claim. Miss R responded promptly to 
information requests  and by her account, she was asked for information AWP already had. 
The delays Miss R experienced dont appear to be in any way attributable to any action on 
her part. Its clear from the notes that AWP was aware that Miss R was upset and frustrated 
by the delays in the process and it seems AWP was also aware that she was suffering from 
long Covid. It was open to AWP to try and speed things along, but it didnt take the 
opportunity to bring the claims to a close for Miss R.
Miss R had to chase repeatedly for updates and AWP wasnt at all proactive in letting her 
know what was happening with her claims. I dont find AWP acted fairly or reasonably by 
failing to progress the claims, or by its lack of communication with her. And in these 
particular circumstances, given the clear impact AWPs handling of the claims had on Miss 
R, causing her worry, frustration and upset, at a time of illness (which it was fully aware of), I 
think an award of £300 is both proportionate and appropriate. 
Overall, I find that a total of £300 compensation (less any amount Miss R has already been 
paid) is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the affect AWPs poor handling of the claims 
had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to pay Miss R £300 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman