DRN-2888920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how they were treated by The Governor and Company of the 
Bank of Ireland (BoI) as they approached the end of the term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had an interest only mortgage with BoI. The term was due to end in November 
2019, but Mr and Mrs D were concerned that they were in negative equity and if they sold 
the property  or it was repossessed  there wouldnt be enough to clear the balance.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs D asked BoI for assistance, but they say they werent able to speak to 
anyone to discuss things until mid-2019. They spoke to BoIs mortgage team, which 
suggested extending the term for five years and taking a new two year fixed interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs D say this would have allowed them to overpay by £200 a month, and five years 
of overpayments together with property price rises in the meantime would mean they could 
sell the property in five years and have some money left over.
BoIs underwriter rejected their application. Mr and Mrs D complained. They felt that BoI 
hadnt given fair consideration to the proposal, and wouldnt answer their questions. It was in 
no ones interests to force a sale now at a loss when a term extension could resolve the 
problem. Mr and Mrs D also said that if they had been offered a lower interest rate in the 
past, they could have overpaid and reduced the balance before 2019. But they say BoI 
never offered them a new interest rate. And they say BoI was very difficult and 
unsympathetic to deal with. 
BoI didnt think extending the term was the right thing to do. It said Mr and Mrs D had no 
means of paying the mortgage back at the end of any extended term. It said there was a risk 
a term extension wouldnt resolve the negative equity. And it said Mr and Mrs Ds initial 
interest rate had expired in 2009 and there was no evidence they had ever asked for another 
one.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs D asked for it to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D borrowed around £156,000 over a 12 year term in 2007, on a self-certified and 
interest only basis. As part of taking out the borrowing, they agreed to repay the capital in 
2019  and its reasonable for BoI to expect them to keep to that agreement.
However, where for any reason a borrower expects to have difficulty in repaying the capital 
at the end of the term, wed expect them to get in touch with their lender to discuss the 
situation  and wed expect the lender to give fair consideration to ways of resolving it.
In this case, Mr and Mrs D had been in touch with BoI several times over the years. Their 
plan had always been to sell the property to repay the capital. But in their part of the UK 
there have been issues with property prices and their property was in negative equity.
No formal valuation had been carried out, but BoI said that a house price index indicated that 
it was worth around £135,000  a shortfall of £20,000. This meant the loan to value was 
around 115%.
Mr and Mrs D wanted to carry out some improvement work at the property to help it sell, and 
then wanted to put it on the market. However, they were concerned that they wouldnt be 
able to raise enough to be able to pay off the mortgage in full.
Mr and Mrs D had several discussions with BoI, which ended in an application to extend the 
term of the mortgage for five years, take a new interest rate, and convert part of the 
mortgage to repayment terms.
BoI refused this application. It did so because it was concerned that the mortgage wouldnt 
be affordable for Mr and Mrs D after the two year interest rate expired, especially if interest 
rates rose in the meantime. It was worried that their finances were already stretched and 
they had a lot of other debt. And BoI said that Mr and Mrs D still wouldnt have any means of 
paying the mortgage off at the end of an extended term. 
I think BoI did give fair consideration to Mr and Mrs Ds application. They only wanted to 
convert around £12,000 to repayment terms, meaning that the mortgage balance would 
reduce to around £144,000 after five years. While this is less than it was in 2019, it would 
still be more than the property was worth when Mr and Mrs D applied. And while property 
prices might rise over the five years, there was no guarantee that theyd rise by enough to 
take the property out of negative equity  and they might even fall. BoI thought that this 
would only be viable if Mr and Mrs D could reduce the balance to below 90% loan to value  
but this wasnt affordable.
I think this was a reasonable concern. Mr and Mrs D were offering to increase their monthly 
payments  taking into account a reduced interest rate  but were offering as much as they 
could afford. If interest rates were to rise after the two year fixed rate, they might not be able 
to afford to keep up with the increased payments. And they couldnt afford to pay enough to 
reduce the mortgage to a level at which there would  short of a significant fall in house 
prices  be no negative equity.
This meant that this plan would very likely leave Mr and Mrs D in much the same position 
after the end of the five years as they were in when they applied for it in 2019. The property 
may well still be in negative equity. Mr and Mrs D would be five years older, and have paid 
five years more interest  which might not be affordable  only to end up where they started. 
And there was a risk that things could get worse for them, if interest rates rose or property 
prices stagnated or fell.
Im not therefore persuaded that it was unfair for BoI to refuse their application. It is entitled 
to have the balance repaid. And while it should fairly consider alternative proposals, 
Mr and Mrs Ds proposal carried a lot of risk that it would make their situation worse, or at 
least no better. 
This couldnt have been known at the time, but Mr D says that since property prices have 
risen following the pandemic, hes been advised that the property is now worth between 
£160,000 and £170,000. The balance has also gone up because Mr and Mrs D took a 
payment deferral. But Mr and Mrs D should get back in touch with BoI to discuss their 
situation now. It may be that the property can be sold with little or no shortfall  and if there is a shortfall, BoI may be able to come to an arrangement for it to be paid off after any sale. BoI 
has an ongoing obligation to give fair consideration to any further reasonable proposals 
Mr and Mrs D might make.
Mr and Mrs D have also complained that BoI hasnt offered them a new interest rate. When 
they took their mortgage out in 2007, Mr and Mrs D had an initial two year discount rate. This 
expired in 2009, and the mortgage has been on BoIs standard variable rate (SVR) ever 
since.
BoI has had new interest rates available throughout that period. Its not clear that 
Mr and Mrs D were always eligible  because of the negative equity, and because theyve 
had periods of arrears. But in any case, theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs D ever asked 
for a rate. Theres no obligation on a lender to contact its borrowers and invite them to apply 
for new rates  Mr and Mrs D say BoI did that with other customers but not them, but Ive 
seen no evidence of that. Its likely that these letters are sent following a payment change 
when an old rate expires, and also mention the availability of new rates, and that 
Mr and Mrs D received such a letter in 2009.
In any case, lenders arent required to invite borrowers to apply for new rates. A borrower 
may choose to remain on the SVR for all sorts of reasons  and if they dont want to do that, 
they have to apply for a new rate themselves. As Mr and Mrs D didnt do that, I cant say BoI 
has treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman