DRN-2513967
The complaint
Mr M complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened
Between September 2019 and January 2020 Cashfloat provided Mr M with four loans. 
Heres a table setting out loan details:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountMaximum 
Repayment
116/09/2019 24/10/2019 3 £300.00 £155.31
224/10/2019 21/11/2019 2 £200.00 £137.26
327/11/2019 16/12/2019 4 £400.00 £158.34
405/01/2020 27/02/2020 4 £400.00 £170.84
Mr M said that Cashfloat shouldnt have provided him with these loans as he had other 
payday loans outstanding already and this lending made his financial situation worse. Mr M 
believed that if Cashfloat had done proper checks it wouldve seen that these loans werent 
affordable for him. 
Our adjudicator thought that she hadnt seen enough to say that loans 1-3 shouldnt have 
been provided. But, at the point of loan 4, she felt that proportionate checks would most 
likely have shown that Mr M was having problems managing his money. Our adjudicator 
thought that Cashfloat would've become aware that Mr M was borrowing from multiple other 
short-term lenders and spending on gambling around the time he took out loan 4. Our 
adjudicator said that Cashfloat ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr M wouldve been 
able to sustainably repay this loan. So our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint about loan 4 
and set out the steps Cashfloat should take to put things right.
Cashfloat disagreed. In summary, Cashfloat acknowledged that its credit checks showed 
Mr M had three other payday loans outstanding when he applied for loan 4 but said Mr Ms 
credit profile indicated that his money problems were in the past. It wasnt aware of his 
spending on gambling but believed that the checks it did were reasonable and proportionate 
and showed the loan was affordable for him. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Cashfloat has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Cashfloat what he normally spent each month. And 
Cashfloat also carried out checks on Mr Ms credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt think she had enough evidence to say loans 1,2 and 3 shouldnt have 
been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including income and expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Cashfloat shouldnt have 
provided these loans to Mr M. As far as I can see, Mr M hasnt disagreed with the 
adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans so I dont think I need to say any 
more about them.
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Cashfloat to provide loan 4 to Mr M. 
Heres why I say this.
Although loan 4 looked comfortably affordable on the figures Mr M gave, Cashfloat was 
aware that he was still paying three other short-term loans that dated back a number of 
years  Mr M had needed to agree new payment terms because he couldnt afford the 
contractual repayments hed signed up to make. Cashfloat could see that he was four 
payments in arrears on one of those loans. As well as this, Cashfloats credit checks showed 
other defaults.
I think this information shouldve prompted Cashfloat to carry out more thorough checks into 
Mr Ms financial situation before agreeing to lend because it looked to be at odds with what 
Mr M had told Cashfloat about his financial circumstances.  
I think Cashfloat should have taken steps to verify what Mr M was saying about his financial 
circumstances. Cashfloat hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a 
proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr M. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Cashfloat 
was likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a 
reasonable picture of Mr Ms finances at the time. And had Cashfloat looked in more depth 
at Mr Ms finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing 
his money. On top of the historic short-term loans it knew about, I think it would have learnt 
that Mr M was actively borrowing from multiple other short-term loan providers and regularly 
spending significant amounts on what appear to be gambling transactions. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to think that it was likely Mr M would 
be able sustainably to repay his borrowing  so it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere particularly if a relationship existed between 
him and Cashfloat which he may not have had with others. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Cashfloat needs to do.
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Cashfloat has recorded on Mr Ms credit file for 
loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should take the steps Ive set out to put things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman