DRN-4280963
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says Shop Direct didnt do enough to check she could afford to repay the 
lending sustainably. Miss M says she was already in financial difficulties and by lending to 
her Shop Direct made this worse. This in turn has had an impact on her mental health. 
What happened
Miss M opened a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct in October 2018. Over the 
subsequent years her limit as follows:
No. Date Credit Limit 
Account opening 02 October 2018 £250
1 13 April 2019 £650
2 28 September 2019 £1,650
3 23 November 2019 £1,900
4 09 May 2020 £2,900
5 21 November 2020 £3,900
6 15 June 2021 £4,900
Miss M complained to Shop Direct about the lending and it upheld the complaint in part. 
Having reviewed the information available, it agreed it shouldnt have increased Miss Ms 
credit limit above £2,900. 
Miss M was unhappy with this response. She said Shop Direct should close the account and 
refund all interest and charges that had been applied to it since opening. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint and set out, in some detail, why he 
thought Shop Direct hadnt acted fairly. He agreed the checks carried out by Shop Direct had 
been proportionate and the account was affordable for the opening credit limit on the 
account, the first, and second limit increases. However, he didnt think the checks for the 
third or subsequent limit increases were proportionate given the significant jump in 
repayments. The investigator considered Miss Ms financial situation at the time of the later 
increases and found that had Shop Direct carried out further checks it would have been 
apparent that credit limits being given werent sustainably affordable for Miss M.
Shop Direct disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman for review. It said that Miss M made frequent overpayments to the account and 
that she was also managing her other credit accounts well. Shop Direct said it wasnt until 
August 2020, when Miss M took out another loan, that it believed borrowing had been over 
extended. So, it maintained that its decision to refund interest and charges applied to 
balances above £2,900 was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Ms complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly to 
Miss M. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable way. These checks could 
take into consideration a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
amount of the repayments and Miss Ms income and expenditure. There may even come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
Where the amount being lent to a customer is moderate, less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However, there are some factors which are likely to indicate 
that more thorough checks are needed, such as:
A lower income
A higher amount to be repaid
Long term or running credit
The number and frequency of loans and other credit accounts
Ive taken all of this into account when considering Miss Ms case. 
Opening limit, first, and second limit increases
A limit of £250 and then £650 are relatively modest and would generally incur monthly 
repayments of less than £50 if maintained. So, we might not expect the same level of checks 
on these sums as we would expect on higher credit limits. 
I appreciate Miss M has said she had a poor credit history (including CCJs) when she 
applied for a credit limit on her Shop Direct account. We would expect Shop Direct to take 
this information into account when assessing whether the lending was affordable, but I 
wouldnt expect the presence of defaults or CCJs alone to prevent lending but rather to 
potentially prompt further checks.  
Whilst Miss M did have some negative credit history this appeared to be historic, and her 
active accounts appeared to be up to date. So, I dont think the checks Shop Direct did, 
revealed any potential concerns about unaffordability for the modest credit limits at account 
opening and the first credit limit increase. So, I think it reached a fair decision to lend in 
these instances.
The limit increase to £1,650 was more substantial. So, it would have been reasonable for 
Shop Direct to have carried out further checks at this point, to ensure Miss M could 
sustainably repay a credit limit of that amount.
However, having reviewed the evidence available, I can see Miss M was maintaining her 
other credit accounts at that time. Miss M also had a steady income, along with relatively 
substantial if sporadic third-party contributions coming into her account. So had Shop Direct 
carried out more thorough checks, I dont think the evidence would have suggested a credit limit of £1,650 would be unaffordable. So, again I think Shop Direct made a fair decision to 
lend here.      
Subsequent limit increases
Shop Direct has agreed that it should refund charges and interest on any balances above 
£2,900. So, my focus here will be on the third and fourth limit increases. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Ms case I think Shop Direct unfairly increased Miss Ms 
credit limit from November 2019 onwards (the third limit increase). I say this because having 
reviewed all the information, its clear that whilst Miss M was managing the account, she was 
only making minimum or close to minimum payments to it prior to the third increase. In 
addition to this the monthly minimum repayments on the account would have more than 
doubled if Miss M were to utilise the full increased limit. 
I appreciate Shop Direct said that it verified Miss Ms income, but I dont think this went far 
enough to ensure she could sustainably repay the debt if she were to reach the credit limit. 
So, given the higher amount that would need to be repaid, on a running credit account, the 
number of other credit accounts Miss M had, and her previous credit history, I think Shop 
Direct ought to have carried out more thorough checks. 
I cant be certain what further checks Shop Direct would have done and theres no definitive 
list of checks that a business must do, so I cant say exactly what it would have seen had it 
tried to find out more. But in the absence of any other information, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Shop Direct to gain a better understanding of Miss Ms financial 
circumstances, perhaps by asking for her bank statements. Miss M has provided our service 
with her bank statements from the time the limits were offered. 
 
Had Shop Direct carried out more thorough checks, they would have seen that Miss Ms 
normal living costs exceeded her regular income and she also had a number of other credit 
accounts to maintain. 
From November 2019 Miss Ms income fell and although this later recovers, her essential 
living costs also increase and more often than not exceed her income. Miss M is regularly 
reliant on her overdraft, other forms of credit, loans from family, and somewhat irregular 
payments from a third party. Although Miss M does make some overpayments, the overall 
trend on the Shop Direct account is that the balance steadily grows rather than reduces.
Overall, Miss Ms financial situation doesnt improve and had Shop Direct carried out 
proportionate checks I think it would have understood that increasing Miss Ms credit limit, 
would likely lead to her not being able to sustainably repay the debt. So, I dont think it 
reached a fair decision to increase her limit from November 2019 onwards. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Shop Direct to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Miss M as a result of the credit unfairly extended to her. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from 23 November 2019 onwards, therefore Shop Direct should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred as a result of any increases (including any 
buy now pay later interest). This means, Shop Direct can only add interest accrued 
on the balance up to the credit limit of £1,650.Shop Direct should work out how much Miss M would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Miss M made since 23 November 2019 should be used 
to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss M 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Miss M no longer owes any money, then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from her credit file 
from 23 November 2019. 
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Miss M for the outstanding amount. As the debt was 
sold to a third party, Shop Direct should either repurchase the debt or liaise with the 
third party to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Miss M has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information because of the unfair lending should be removed 
from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply 
the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think Shop Direct acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Miss M from 23 
November 2019. To put this right I direct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to pay 
compensation as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Charlotte Roberts
Ombudsman