DRN-4019046
The complaint
Mr C and Miss B complain that Santander UK Plc sold them an unsuitable buildings and 
contents insurance policy.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr C.
What happened
As first-time buyers, Mr C and Miss B took out a mortgage with Santander. They bought 
home insurance at the same time which was for unlimited buildings and contents cover.
More than ten years later, Mr C complained to Santander about the level of cover sold to 
him. He thought hed overpaid by around £7,000 and asked Santander to refund the money 
in recognition of what he considered to be mis-selling.
Santander looked into Mr Cs complaint and issued a final response letter. It said the policy 
wasnt an advised sale, which meant Mr C wouldve needed to decide whether the policy 
was suitable for his needs. Santander also pointed out that Mr C had removed the contents 
cover from his policy just a year after the sale, so he mustve been aware of the level of 
cover. As new documents were issued to him each year, Santander said Mr C had plenty of 
opportunity to change the level of cover.
But Mr C didnt think that was fair. He said Santander shouldve presented him with other 
options to choose from when he first bought the policy, but he had no recollection of it doing 
so. And he didnt think Santander should rely on inertia to keep him on the same level of 
cover. So, he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the evidence supported what 
Santander said about the policy sale being non-advised. He also said Mr C had the 
opportunity to review the documents each year at renewal, which he evidently did because 
he cancelled the contents cover. Therefore, our investigator didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong.
Mr C didnt think the outcome was fair, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr C and Miss Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
While the outcome is the same as that proposed by our investigator, Ive relied on additional 
information. I wont refer to every piece of evidence, but I think its fair that both parties have 
a further opportunity to comment before I reach a final decision.
While Mr C doesnt think Santander made him aware of other policies which may have 
suited him better, I havent seen anything to support this. Santander sold only two types of 
policy and it provided me with a copy of the policy booklet. I see that information about both 
policies are covered in one document. So, the evidence tells me its more likely than not that 
Santander made information available to Mr C about the only two policies it sold at that time.
Ive thought about Mr Cs comments in respect of staff incentives around the time he bought 
the policy, which he thinks suggests that specific policies may have been pushed above 
other policies. I asked Santander about this but theres no evidence of any incentives. 
Santander confirmed it isnt usual practice because it cant promote one policy over another 
in non-advised sales. 
It's worth pointing out that other policies wouldve been available to Mr C through other 
insurers, though I accept he may have thought it more straightforward to buy cover with 
Santander in the first instance.
Mr C confirmed that he wasn't complaining about the policy details, rather Santanders 
selling of products. Its difficult to separate the two elements because Santander offers its 
policies and its up to the customer to decide whether the details of the policy meet their 
needs.
Mr C also makes it clear that his complaint isnt about the price of the policy. But he thinks 
Santander sold him excessive cover, which naturally will be reflected in the price. 
As Ive said, Santander only had two policies to offer, each with its own level of cover. Mr C 
focused on the unlimited cover for buildings and said a lower sum wouldve been more 
suitable. But the policy doesnt just cover the rebuild value - the two policies had different 
levels of cover for other perils. Therefore, I dont think the evidence of unlimited cover 
indicates that Santander mustve sold an unsuitable policy.
I understand what Mr C says about the onus being on Santander to prove its case, but I 
dont agree. Mr C brought a complaint about Santander, so its his responsibility to show that 
he suffered a loss caused by Santander. Thats not to say he must show beyond doubt that 
Santander mis-sold the policy. The standard of proof here is that of a reasonable person, 
and the balance of probability  what is likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available. While I have no reason to doubt that Mr C thinks he wasnt offered other policies, 
he has said throughout that he doesnt recall being offered other policies. That implies 
Santander mightve offered other policies and the evidence of the policy details contained in 
one booklet indicates this is likely to be the case.
So, in terms of the sale, I havent seen any evidence at this stage to indicate that Santander 
caused Mr C to buy unsuitable cover.
Looking now at the policy renewals, I see Mr C cancelled his contents cover the year after 
he bought the policy. It's clear that Mr C had been looking at his policy documents when he 
made the change, so its reasonable to think if he was unhappy with his buildings insurance he wouldve asked for changes at the same time. Therefore, the evidence persuades me 
that Mr C was likely aware of the buildings cover available to him.
As a final point, I note that Mr C said he didnt make a claim on the policy so there would be 
no loss if Santander refunded the overpaid premiums. Im pleased to hear that Mr C hasnt 
made a claim because it implies he hasnt suffered a significant loss in respect of his home. 
However, as the evidence doesnt show that Santander did anything wrong in respect of the 
policy sale, I dont plan to ask it to refund the premium just because Mr C hasnt had a need 
to use the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Santander had nothing further to add.
Mr C provided comments on all aspects of the provisional decision, specifically making 
reference to evidence available which he believed contradicted some of the reasoning. 
Where his comments relate directly to the summary of what happened, I wont comment 
further. Thats because the summary simply provides an outline of Mr Cs complaint and 
Santanders response. It doesnt reflect my opinion.
Ill respond to the remaining points individually where I think its beneficial, but otherwise as a 
whole.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen anything which persuades me that a different outcome to 
that in my provisional decision is warranted. 
Going back to the issue of complaint, Mr C said Santander sold him a home insurance policy 
which wasn't suitable for his needs. Specifically, he had unlimited cover for a property which 
he now thinks couldve been covered under a primary level policy. 
Mr C thinks one of the reasons for the sale was due to staff incentives. 
In my provisional decision, I said I asked Santander about this and there was no indication of 
the incentives Mr C made reference to. Ive looked at the information he provided in 
response which is about Santanders staff incentives. But I havent seen anything in the 
letter which suggests there was an incentive for staff to sell one of its two available policies 
over the other. The letter refers mainly to banking products. So, having considered this point, 
I dont find that it supports Mr Cs view of events.
Mr C said Santander didnt offer him any other policies or give any other pricing information. 
He doesnt agree that the policy booklet gives details of other policies.
The two types of policy Santander offered are both named in the policy booklet  Essentials 
and Peace of Mind. The policy names changed over the years so may also be referred to as 
Choices or Peace of Mind Plus. Under each of the policy types, it confirms that the level of 
cover provided is detailed in the schedule. The information in the policy booklet, such as 
terms and conditions and how to claim, relate to both policies. So, Im satisfied that 
Santander provided Mr C with information to make him aware that other policies were 
available.While Mr C said the documents were only provided after the sale, there are clear messages 
throughout to check the suitability of the cover. Santander also gives information about how 
to change the cover and Mr Cs cancellation rights.
As Ive already said, the sale wasnt an advised sale, so Santander didnt tell Mr C which 
policy he should opt for. Mr C said he was guided to the unlimited cover and highlighted that 
Santanders tick list said:
We may ask you some questions to narrow down the selection of products that we will 
provide details on. You will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed. 
Ive noted this in the documents, but it doesnt change my opinion. Thats because the 
quoted text covers all products in the tick list, not just the insurance cover. And as Santander 
only had two insurance products, Mr Cs responses to its questions mightve immediately 
highlighted that one policy was unsuitable. For example, I note that Mr C didnt want 
contents cover, and he cancelled after the first year. The alternative policy was only 
available for joint buildings and contents insurance. So, if Mr C had mentioned that he 
wouldnt want contents cover ongoing, Santander may not have offered the policy which 
required him to have both.
For clarity, Im not saying this is what happened. Im simply trying to explain why the quote 
Mr C highlighted doesnt mean Santander necessarily failed to offer a more suitable policy.
Mr C doesnt think that removing contents cover from his policy proves anything. I accept the 
point hes making. He removed the contents cover a year after the sale so that wasnt a 
factor in the sale itself. Mr C also said other comments were irrelevant to his complaint. I 
havent considered those points any further, but that doesnt warrant a change to the 
outcome.
Overall, the evidence doesnt show that Santander failed to make Mr C aware of a more 
suitable policy, or that it offered him an unsuitable policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman