DRN-3673108
The complaint
Mrs B complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mrs B, along with her husband, bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in October 
2010. The total cost of membership was £8,750, which was paid for by way of a loan from 
BPF. That loan was taken out in Mrs Bs sole name and paid off in March 2011. In 
November 2011, Mr and Mrs B took out another timeshare from the same supplier. To pay 
for that they traded in their existing timeshare and also took a loan from another provider.
In January 2018, Mrs B, using a professional representative (SW), made a claim against 
BPF for problems she said she had had with the timeshare.1 In particular SW said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B and BPF 
were jointly liable for this under s.75 CCA.
The resorts offered by the timeshare provider were not suitable for Mrs B due to a 
medical condition.
There was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA due to a number 
of matters, including breaches of consumer protection law.
BPF did not undertake the right checks to make sure the lending was affordable.
SW asked BPF to refund all payments made to the loan, with interest.
BPF responded to the claim in February 2018, but said it needed more time to look into it. 
However, BPF did not send a further response and so SW referred a complaint that BPF had 
not properly considered the claims to our service, on Mrs Bs behalf.
After we told BPF about the complaint, it said that claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA had 
been brought too late under the provisions set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
One of our investigators considered this complaint and agreed with BPF that it had been 
brought outside of the periods set out in the LA. So they thought BPF acted fairly in turning 
down the claims.
SW disagreed and asked for the matter to be looked at again by an ombudsman. It also sent 
a document prepared by a barrister that it wanted to be considered.
1 Although the timeshare was in the names of Mr and Mrs B, as the loan was in Mrs Bs name only, 
she was the only person eligible to make the claim
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the same reasons.
Mrs B has made two claims against BPF under s.75  and s.140A CCA. Both of these claims 
are legal causes of action, so it is important to consider any defence that BPF may have to 
the claims. 
S.75 CCA is a provision that makes a lender, in certain circumstances, jointly liable for a 
suppliers misrepresentations or breaches of contract where the credit was used to pay for 
the suppliers goods or services. It is not in dispute that s.75 CCA applies in Mrs Bs case.
Here Mrs B has said that the nature of the timeshare was misrepresented by the timeshare 
provider. A claim against the timeshare provider would be covered by s.2 LA, so the 
limitation period expired six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. And 
in any like claim against BPF, the same limitation defence would apply.
The date on which the cause of action accrued was the point in time Mrs B entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare, as it was at that time she entered into an agreement based 
on alleged misrepresentations and suffered a loss. It follows that the cause of action accrued 
in October 2010 and Mrs B had until October 2016 to bring any claim. But no claim was 
made until January 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So it 
appears BPF had, and has, a full defence to the s.75 CCA claim and I do not think it needs 
to do anything further.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too and the time for limitation purposes starts 
to run from the date the credit agreement ends. Here Mrs B is asking for a refund of 
payments, so s.9 LA applies, meaning any claim had to be made within six years of March 
2011. But as Mrs B did not do that, again I think BPF had, and has, a full defence to the 
s.140A CCA claim and I do not think it needs to do anything further.
I have read the 46 page submission sent to me by SW. It is titled Generic submissions on 
behalf of complainants and sets out arguments on why the way Mrs Bs timeshare supplier 
sold its products could lead to connected liability for lenders. However, these submissions 
set out why the merits of claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA might succeed and do not deal 
with the issue of limitation, so I do not think they assist Mrs B.
SW say that BPF was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit assessment 
to determine whether Mrs B could afford to repay the loan and pointed to Office of Fair 
Trading guidance that was in force at the time of the sale. Our investigator said that he could 
not see any evidence that Mrs B found the loan unaffordable.
When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether 
the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if BPF 
did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do 
something to put things right, I would need to see that Mrs B lost out as a result of its 
failings. Mrs B has provided no evidence whatsoever that she would have found nor found it 
difficult to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman