DRN-1540849
 
The complaint 
Mr Ps complaint is about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services 
(Alphera).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is 
able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Alphera, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely 
include things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr 
P. The car here was around five years old but had completed only a little over 14,000 
miles when it was supplied to Mr P. 
The relevant law also says that when we consider whether a car has been of 
satisfactory quality we should consider whether it has been suitably durable. 
The cars gearbox failed after Mr P had been in possession of the vehicle for about 
15 months and had completed about a further 13,000 miles. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect a gearbox to fail, and to be faced with a £3,000 bill 
to replace it, after the car had only completed about 27,000 miles. I think that 
suggests the gearbox, and therefore the car, hasnt been suitably durable.
Legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair such faults so I think, in the 
circumstances; Alphera should refund the money Mr P has spent on that repair. They 
should add interest to that refund as Mr P has been deprived of that money.
 
Mr P was without his car whilst the repairs were being completed so I think it would 
be fair for Alphera to refund the monthly instalments he paid during that period and 
they should add interest to this refund too for the same reason.
 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Ps 
complaint, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should:
reimburse the cost of the gearbox repair of £3067.52 on provision of the receipt by 
Mr P. Add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date Mr P paid it to 
the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments paid from, and including, 13 September 2019 to 6 
December 2019. Add 8% simple interest per annum to this refund from the date Mr P 
paid it to the date of settlement;
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman