DRN-3820905
The complaint
Miss W complains that HFC Bank Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a credit card in 2002. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think PPI had been mis-sold. She said there wasnt enough 
information or evidence to conclude that HFC hadnt made it clear the cover was optional. 
She also thought the PPI policy was probably suitable for Miss Ws needs. However, she 
concluded that HFC needed to pay back to Miss W some of the commission it received from 
her PPI premiums. 
Miss W still thought PPI had been mis-sold. She said if there was insufficient evidence to 
show the PPI wasnt presented as optional, there was also insufficient evidence to show that 
it was. Miss W also did not accept that the cover was suitable for her needs. 
As Miss W did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss W will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent found the PPI policy 
was mis-sold. I also agree with our adjudicator that HFCs offer to refund some of the 
commission it received from her PPI premiums is fair. Ill explain why below. 
Miss W told us that she thought the PPI had been sold to her by telephone. HFC hasnt been 
able to tell us how it thought the policy was sold. On that basis, Ive accepted Miss Ws 
recollection that the policy was sold by telephone.  Neither party has been able to provide 
me with any contemporaneous documents from the sale. And I havent been provided with a 
call recording either. Thats not surprising given how long ago this policy was sold. I wouldnt 
expect either party to keep these records for such a long time. 
The first thing for me to consider is whether it was made clear to Miss W that the PPI policy 
was optional, and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. In the absence of a call 
recording, I cant say for sure what happened when the cover was sold. So, for me to decide 
what happened, I must apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have to decide 
whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence thats before me. 
If PPI was sold to Miss W on the telephone, I think a credit agreement would have most 
likely been sent out to her after the sale. For the account to get up and running, she would 
have needed to sign that agreement and send it back to HFC. Ive seen some sample 
agreements used by HFC at the relevant time. And I can see that in order for PPI to be 
added to the account, Miss W would have had to select it on the agreement. There was an 
equally prominent box to select if Miss W didnt want the cover. 
I appreciate the initial conversation about PPI would have taken place on the telephone. But 
I think Miss W would have queried why the credit agreement indicated she had a choice 
about PPI cover if shed been misled on the telephone. I think it would have been clear by 
the time she got the credit agreement that she didnt have to take the policy out if she didnt 
want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means HFC had to take steps to check whether the 
PPI was suitable for Miss Ws needs. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive 
looked at what we know about the policys terms and conditions. Ive also considered what 
Miss W told us about her personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Miss Ws credit card 
balance would have been paid for every month she was off sick from work or if she lost her 
job for up to a maximum of 12 months.  
Miss W told us that she had some sick pay from her employer, who paid such pay 
generously. But from what she told us, it looks as though the PPI policy would have lasted 
for longer than her full sick pay. And in any event, with a PPI policy, Miss W could have used 
her sick pay on her other essential expenditure at what could have been a difficult time for 
her if she was out of work. Looking at how long Miss W had been with her employer, I think 
the cover would have also lasted for considerably longer than any entitlement to redundancy 
pay. 
Miss W told us that she didnt need a PPI policy because her family members would have 
been able to help her out if she was out of work. I dont doubt it would have been the 
intention of those family members to help out. But theres no guarantee such assistance 
would have been available to Miss W as and when she needed it. 
I understand Miss W was in good health at the time the policy was sold. So I dont think 
shed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. With all of these 
things in mind, Im satisfied the PPI policy was suitable for her needs. 
That said, HFC still had to give Miss W enough information about the PPI so she could 
decide for herself whether it was as good fit for her needs. That information had to be clear, 
fair and not misleading. In the absence of a call recording, I accept its possible HFC didnt 
tell Miss W everything it should have done about the PPI. However, Ive set out how cover 
could have been helpful to Miss W if she was out of work. So I cant say she would have 
acted differently if HFC had given her more or better information about the cover. 
With all of these things in mind, I cant say the PPI policy was mis-sold. That means HFC 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. 
However, when it sold PPI to Miss W, HFC got a high level of commission and profit share. 
This level of commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. HFC 
should have told Miss W about that, and its failure to do so was unfair. 
To put that right, HFC has now offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. Im satisfied that offer is fair in the 
circumstances and it is in line with the guidance set by the Financial Conduct Authority. I 
understand HFC has not yet paid that compensation to Miss W. 
Putting things right
HFC must pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. It must also pay back to Miss W any extra interest she paid 
because of that. 
HFC will need to re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss W the difference 
between what she owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of PPI. HFC must also pay 8% simple interest* to Miss 
W if she paid off her credit card at some point. *HMRC requires HFC to deduct standard rate income tax from this interest. HFC must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so HFC Bank Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W. But it does have to pay back any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman