DRN-3100080
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) voided and 
refunded his policy due to him not disclosing a conviction, but should have voided and 
refunded his policies to an earlier date because he also hadnt disclosed another conviction.
What happened
Mr S contacted RSA to make a claim under his policy. While RSA was considering the claim 
it became clear that Mr S hadnt disclosed a criminal conviction from 2018. As a result, RSA 
declined the claim and voided the policy back to 2018. RSA said it wouldnt have insured Mr 
S if it had known about the conviction. It also refunded Mr Ss premiums.
Mr S told RSA that he had another conviction from 2011 and asked for his refund to be 
backdated to 2011. RSA declined to refund the premiums. It said it hadnt been aware of the 
conviction, but it was now considered spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 
(ROA). It also said Mr S hadnt provided enough evidence of the 2011 conviction.
When Mr S complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Mr S was aware he had a duty to declare the 2018 conviction but didnt. She said RSA acted 
reasonably by voiding the policy and refunding the premiums back to 2018. For the 2011 
conviction, she said this was considered spent under the ROA. She agreed with RSA that it 
no longer needed to take this into account when it was made aware of this in 2021.
As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr S hasnt disputed that he didnt declare his 2018 conviction to RSA until he made a claim 
under the policy. Mr S actually asked RSA to void his policy and refund the premiums back 
to an earlier date, which it declined to do. However, Ive considered whether the actions RSA 
took when it found out about the 2018 conviction were reasonable.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out an 
insurance policy. Each period of insurance is a new contract and a policyholder must take 
reasonable care not to misrepresent at each renewal. Where a policyholder hasnt taken 
reasonable care, what an insurer can do under CIDRA will depend on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Mr Ss conviction was in 2018 and the date of the conviction was a few weeks before the 
policy renewed. The renewal schedule sent to Mr S that year said:
DONT FORGET TO KEEP US UP-TO-DATE
Please remember to keep us informed about any changes in your circumstances so
we can update your cover and premium accordingly. If you don't let us know about
changes to your situation it could affect any claim you make, or your policy may even
be cancelled. Your Policy Booklet provides full information on what changes insurers
need to know about and what information you must tell us.
The policy booklet also said:
Changes in your circumstances
You must tell the Administrator as soon as you are aware (and no more than 30 days later) 
of any of the following changes:

 You or any member of your family receives a conviction or has a pending prosecution for 
any offence
There is no need to tell us about driving offences or any offences which are spent under the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.

We may re-assess your cover and premiums when we are told about changes in your 
circumstances. If you do not tell us about changes or provide full answers and relevant 
details, or give us incorrect information or do not answer questions honestly or to the best of 
your knowledge, the wrong terms may be quoted, a claim might be rejected or payment 
could be reduced. In some circumstances your policy might be invalid and you may not be 
entitled to a refund of premium.
So, Mr Ss renewal documents explained that he had a duty to disclose any convictions to 
RSA. So, in my view, Mr S deliberately or recklessly didnt disclose his conviction. Where a 
consumer has been deliberate or reckless in not disclosing a conviction, the insurer can void 
the policy, refuse any claims and withhold any premiums the consumer has paid. In this 
instance, RSA voided the policy back to 2018 and refunded Mr Ss premiums for the same 
period. Given I think the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, I dont think RSA had 
to refund the premiums. It only needed to do this if the misrepresentation was careless. So, 
RSA has done more than I would have said it should do in the circumstances by providing a 
refund. As RSA seems to have treated the misrepresentation as careless and refunded the 
premium, which left Mr S in a better position, I have no reason to comment on this further.
Im aware that Mr S has said he didnt receive renewal documents during the whole time that 
he had the policy. RSA has provided this service with renewal documents from a range of 
years. These were addressed to Mr S at the correct address and showed that the premium 
would be paid on a monthly basis. But RSA wasnt responsible for any failure by the postal 
service to deliver the renewals over several years.
However, Mr S wanted the voidance of his policy to be backdated to 2011, not just to 2018, 
and for the premiums also to be refunded for that period. This was because he also received 
a conviction in 2011. RSA declined to do this because it said that by the time Mr S told it 
about the 2011 conviction that it was considered spent under the Rehabilitation of Offenders 
Act 1974 (ROA).
The ROA explained that sentences of the length Mr S said he was given would be 
considered spent after four years. This meant that by 2015, Mr S no longer needed to 
declare the 2011 conviction to RSA. So, by the time Mr S told RSA about this in 2021, it was 
no longer relevant information for RSA to take into account. So, it declined to take any action 
about the 2011 conviction. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont 
require RSA to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman