DRN-2038122
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy about the interest and charges on her Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
equity release mortgage. 
The complaint has been brought by Mrs Ls son on her behalf; Ill refer to him as Mr L.
What happened
In 2004 Mrs L took out an equity release mortgage with her now-late husband. They 
borrowed £25,300 on an interest roll-up basis, so they didnt need to make any monthly 
payments. Mrs Ls husband died in 2017 and the mortgage moved to Mrs Ls sole name. 
In March 2019 Mr L contacted Aviva to find out how much it would cost to redeem the 
mortgage as his mother was looking to remortgage to a different lender. Unfortunately he 
was initially told  in error - that there would be no early repayment charge (ERC), something 
that was corrected nine days later when Mrs Ls financial adviser contacted Aviva. Aviva 
sent Mrs L a £50 voucher in recognition of that mis-information.
When the correct information was given a complaint was made. Mr L says that there was no 
evidence the adviser took sufficient care that his parents had taken independent financial 
and legal advice that the product was suitable. He commented on the rate of interest and 
called the ERC punitive. He said his mother was effectively locked in with Aviva, meaning 
the outstanding debt would escalate.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that, based on 
the information available, he was satisfied that the nature of the contract had been made 
clear, and independent legal advice had been taken.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Before I go any further I think it is prudent to pick up on Mr Ls claim that his parents didnt 
receive independent legal advice. He said there hadnt been any independent legal advice, 
and then after our investigator explained in his findings that there had been, Mr L replied
You state that Aviva have the independent solicitors certificate which is mandatory. 
Aviva have not sent me a copy of this during their initial investigation and it appears you 
have not had sight of it either. My mother has no recollection of seeing an independent 
solicitor. This may of course be a result of a fading memory and the passage of time so if 
Aviva can produce a copy of the signed document, it would resolve this outstanding 
issue. I would be grateful if you can confirm and produce this evidence of independent 
advice.
After our investigator provided a copy of the independent solicitors certificate to him, Mr L 
said
There are no signatures of either of my parents. I am concerned that this hasn't been 
picked up as an issue.  In your email of 4th June you state "I understand Aviva have the 
independent solicitors certificate which is mandatory in all equity release cases. This 
certificate shows the applicants have attended the solicitors office and the solicitor has 
explained the terms and implications of the mortgage and the applicants have signed this 
to indicate they understand and accept the implications of the mortgage and wish to 
proceed." My mother has restated that she has no recollection of attending a solicitor's 
office and the lack of a signature would appear to back up her assertion. 
It seems there has been a misunderstanding. Mr Ls parents wouldnt have been required to 
sign the independent solicitors certificate as that was for the solicitor to complete and sign 
once hed meet with them. So the fact their signatures arent on the document doesnt back 
anything up. The paragraph quoted by Mr L from our investigators email has confused 
things, I agree, but the this that he was referring to Mr Ls parents having signed was the 
mortgage hed referenced six words earlier (eg the mortgage offer and mortgage deed), not 
the certificate that was mentioned earlier in the sentence.
Mr Ls parents attended a meeting with their solicitor on 11 December 2003. The solicitor 
has certified that in that meeting he had  explained the terms and effects of the above 
Plan to the Borrowers as contained in the Loan Agreement Whilst the ERC wasnt 
specifically mentioned in the five points listed, it was correctly set out in the loan agreement. 
As the solicitor certified hed explained the terms of the loan agreement, then Im satisfied it 
can be inferred that he was certifying that hed explained the potential ERC as that was a 
term of the loan agreement.
At that meeting Mr Ls parents signed the mortgage offer to accept the terms within it, and 
they also signed the mortgage deed (with their signatures witnessed by another member of 
staff at the firm of solicitors).
Having considered everything Im satisfied Mr Ls parents did appoint a solicitor to give them 
independent legal advice, and that they did meet with him (on 11 December 2003).
Mr Ls parents wanted to borrow money for some specific purposes. They first met with the 
adviser in January 2003 and at that time decided they wanted to go away and think about 
things. They then got back in touch in October 2003, at which point the adviser went through 
a full fact find with them and documented their needs and circumstances. Its clear from this 
timeline that they werent rushed into things, and this was a conscious decision theyd made 
that they wanted to take an equity release mortgage. The adviser asked questions, and 
investigated whether there was any other way the objectives could be met, and it was found they couldnt. So all things considered it seems an equity release mortgage was the only 
option available to them at the time if they wanted to meet their objectives.
Having looked at the documents, Im satisfied Aviva did enough to make Mr Ls parents 
aware of the likely costs (including roll-up interest and the potential ERC) if they went ahead. 
Mr L feels the interest is high, but the rate and likely costs over one, five, ten and twenty 
years were set out in the illustration that was provided with the loan agreement. As was the 
ERC.
The adviser sent a letter to Mr Ls parents setting out the reasons for his recommendation 
and that said
For early repayment the amount repayable will always include the capital advanced, any 
accrued interest, plus an administration fee of £300. In addition there may also be an 
early repayment charge, which could be substantial. I have explained how the early 
repayment charge is calculated.
I must reiterate that the plan is designed to last for the rest of your life and is not suitable 
for short term financing. You have confirmed that you understand the implications of the 
early repayment charge, should you redeem the plan early, and are prepared to proceed.
The illustration (that was sent with the loan agreement) says
What happens if you repay the loan early?
Your plan isn't designed to be repaid until you both die or need long term care.
If you repay the loan and interest before this you'll have to pay an administration fee of 
£300.
WARNING - EARLY REPAYMENT CHARGE We'll also make an extra early repayment 
charge if long-term market interest rates (often called "gilt yields") have fallen since your 
plan started.
The table below shows examples of the early repayment charges we may take:
The table then set out various potential ERCs, with the highest being £25,300.
The loan agreement includes an entire section on the ERC, section 8, and that says:
8Early repayment
8.1 This Flexible Cash Release Plan is designed to last for the rest of your life, or 
until you need long term care. We neither expect nor recommend repayment 
for any other reason, because you may have to pay an early repayment 
charge.
8.2 We recognise that you may wish to move to a lower-value property, resulting 
in a repayment of part of the total loan, as explained in paragraph 10 of this 
agreement. If this happens you will not have to pay an early repayment 
charge.
8.3 If you do consider repaying the total loan and you do not need long term 
care, we suggest you discuss your plans with your financial adviser to make 
sure it really is the most appropriate course of action for you. Having done this, if you still wish to repay the total loan, the following information will 
explain how we decide whether or not we need to make an early repayment 
charge and, if so, how we calculate that charge.
How do we decide whether to make an early repayment charge?
8.4 By using insurance industry statistics we can estimate when loans will be 
repaid as a result of Borrowers dying or needing long term care. We use this 
information to set our interest rate, so we know how much money we expect 
to receive when the total loan is repaid.
8.5 The statistics do not enable us to estimate how many loans might be repaid 
for other reasons. If you do not require long term care and repay the loan 
early, we will re-invest the money repaid to us. When we do this, we may 
receive the same amount of money as we had expected, or we may receive a 
different amount.
8.6 If we receive the same amount as, or more than we expected, we will not 
make an early repayment charge, but we may charge an administration fee of 
£300.00.
8.7 If we receive less money than we had expected, we will make an early 
repayment charge, to compensate us for the loss, and we may also charge 
an administration fee of £300.00.
How do we calculate the early repayment charge?
8.8 We use the redemption yield on gilts as our guide to decide whether we will 
receive more or less money than we had expected. We believe this is fair, 
because it is an independent guide: we do not decide whether the redemption 
yield rises or falls.
8.9 Each loan is linked to a particular gilt: the gilt to which your loan is linked is 
called 4.25% Treasury 2036. We will tell you the redemption yield for this gilt 
on the completion date.
8.10The redemption yield is published daily in the Financial Times. At any time 
during the loan term, you can see the redemption yield for the 4.25% 
Treasury 2036 gilt either by asking us or by reference to the Financial Times 
or by asking your Financial Adviser.
8.11We compare  the redemption  yield  published  on the completion  date 
with the redemption  yield  published  on the repayment  date.  A rise in 
the redemption  yield  could  result  in our receiving  more  money,  but a fall 
could  result  in our receiving  less.
8.12If the redemption  yield  published  on the repayment  date is the same  
as or higher  than the redemption  yield  on the completion  date,  there  
would  be no early  repayment  charge.
8.13If the redemption  yield  published  on the repayment  date is lower  than 
the redemption  yield  on the completion  date,  the difference  would  be 
used  to calculate  any early  repayment  charge  as shown  in the table  at 
the end of this agreement.Remember that an early repayment charge is not required if the total loan is 
repaid as a result of death or the need for long term care (see paragraphs 
6.1.a and 6.1.b).
Remember  also that if the total loan is repaid  as a result  of a default  as 
referred  to in paragraph  6.1.c,  then we will regard  this as an early  
repayment,  so an early  repayment  charge  may be payable  and the 
administration  fee will always  be payable.  However  you will always  have  
the protection  of the no negative  equity  guarantee.
For examples  of how these  early  repayment  charges  are calculated  please  
see the accompanying  personal  illustration,  a copy  of which  you shall  
keep.
Having carefully considered this matter I cant reasonably find that Aviva acted incorrectly 
when it set up this equity release mortgage. All other ways of the objectives being met were 
investigated and discounted, so all that was left was an equity release mortgage. Nor can I 
safely find that the interest has been added to the account - or the ERC calculated - in a 
manner other than as was set out in the contract that was entered into. The terms of the 
contract were set out in manner approved by the regulator of mortgage contracts, and they 
were recorded as having been discussed with Mr Ls parents both by their own independent 
solicitor, and by the adviser. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied this plan wasnt unsuitable for Mr Ls parents at 
the time it was sold, and it allowed them to achieve their objectives.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman