DRN-4209022
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco Bank) declined his claim for a 
refund following payments made on his credit card.
What happened
Mr M says he was provided with a fixed price quote for repair to his car. He says the quote 
was misrepresented as he had to pay more for the work undertaken. As Mr M wasnt able to 
resolve the issue with the business that carried out the repairs (the merchant) he raised a 
claim through Tesco Banks disputes procedure. He says Tesco Bank declined his claim 
referring to the merchants terms and conditions which he says he hadnt seen before the 
work was completed. 
In August 2022 Tesco Bank emailed Mr M to say it hadnt found that there had been a clear 
breach of contract and so it hadnt been able to progress Mr Ms claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act. It then issued a final response to Mr Ms complaint about his claim 
being rejected. It said it considered Mr Ms claim both under the chargeback scheme and 
Section 75. It said that not all scenarios are covered by the chargeback scheme, and it 
wasnt able to continue with Mr Ms claim through this scheme. In regard to a Section 75 
claim, it said it hadnt been able to substantiate a breach of contract. It noted that Mr M was 
contacted about the additional costs, and he agreed to these. It didnt find there had been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation and said it was right to reject the claim. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She 
didnt think that Tesco Bank had done anything wrong by not raising a chargeback claim. In 
regard to the Section 75 claim, she said it wasnt unreasonable that the costs could change 
after the car had been assessed. She accepted that Mr M had paid more than the original 
quote but said he had received what he had paid for. Therefore, she didnt find that there 
had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation and so didnt think that Tesco Bank was 
wrong to decline Mr Ms claim.   
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the quote he received was a fixed 
price and that the additional work the merchant charged for was clear from the photographs 
he had provided before the quote was provided. He said that when he was told about the 
extra costs, work had already started on his car and so he had no choice to accept the extra 
charges as he couldnt have a partial repair. He then checked his quote and said he found 
the extra damage was included in the quote by reference to the photographs he had 
provided. He said this extra work was misrepresented to him and should be refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr M is upset that he had to pay more for the repairs to his car than he 
had initially expected. But this complaint is about whether Tesco Bank acted reasonably in 
response to Mr Ms claim for a refund.
Mr M paid for the repairs using his Tesco Bank credit card. As has already been explained, 
when payments are disputed there are two possible approaches that can be taken: a 
chargeback claim or a Section 75 claim. Tesco Bank isnt required to make a chargeback 
claim but we would consider it good practice to do so in certain circumstances. However, it 
isnt unreasonable that a chargeback claim wouldnt be pursued if it was unlikely to succeed. 
Given in this case, Mr M authorised the payment for repairs, and the repairs he paid for were 
undertaken, I do not find it unreasonable that the chargeback process wasnt pursued.
I have therefore considered whether Tesco Bank acted reasonably by not upholding Mr Ms 
Section 75 claim. Section 75 allows, in certain circumstances, for a consumer acquiring 
goods or services on credit to claim against their credit provider over the actions of a third 
party supplier. In this case Mr M paid for the repairs using his Tesco Bank credit card and 
the amount paid fell within the limits for a claim. 
For a valid Section 75 claim either a misrepresentation needs to have occurred or a breach 
of contract. Mr M contacted the merchant about repairs to his car. He provided photographs 
of the damage he wanted repaired and asked the merchant if this was possible. The 
merchant responded saying that to repair the two nearside doors and nearside rear bumper 
if would cost £648 plus VAT. Mr M says that he wasnt provided with the merchants terms 
and conditions at this point, but I note these were available on the merchants website and 
set out that any estimate provided prior to inspection is indicative and subject to revision. 
Mr M says he was provided with a fixed price. I understand this point but when the repairs 
were being undertaken further costs were identified. I appreciate that Mr M thinks the paint 
type required and additional work he was charged for should have been apparent from the 
information he provided when asking for price and as such the price was misrepresented. 
But in this case, I do not find I have enough to say that the price was misrepresented.  
I say this because the merchant provided a price for repairs based on what it believed to be 
the work involved from the photographs. It hadnt inspected the car at that time. While the 
merchant didnt reference its terms and conditions when providing the price these explain 
that a price can be subject to change and given the nature of the service, I do not find it 
unreasonable that when the car was inspected further work was identified that hadnt been 
picked up before the initial price was provided. Therefore, I accept the initial price provided 
was based on the merchants best estimate of the work involved and I do not find it 
unreasonable that it would alert Mr M to any extra work and costs that was identified. 
When the merchant saw the car it spoke to Mr M about the extra charge for the paint 
required and this was agreed. Once the repairs had started, Mr M was contacted to say 
further damage had been spotted on the trim of the car door and this repair would cost extra. 
I understand Mr Ms point that as the repairs had started when he was told of the extra costs, 
he felt he had no choice to accept, but I do not find I can say the price was misrepresented 
to him. Mr M was provided an initial price based on the assessment of the photographs, he 
was then informed of the extra cost for the paint and when further damage was identified he 
was told of the cost of this additional repair. I understand Mr M didnt want to accept the 
additional costs, but he was informed of these in advance of them being incurred and he 
agreed. Therefore, I do not find I can say that there has been a misrepresentation in regard 
to the services provided. 
I have also considered whether there has been a breach of contract and in this case, I do not 
find there has. Mr M engaged the merchant to carry out repairs and these happened. I have 
nothing to suggest these werent to a reasonable standard. 
Based on the above I do not find that Tesco Bank did anything wrong by not upholding 
Mr Ms Section 75 claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman