DRN-2667598
The complaint
 Ms A, who is represented by Mr S, complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited imposed unfair charges for damages to a car she returned at the end of her finance 
agreement.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons: 
I appreciate the arguments put forward by Mr S on Ms As behalf and his assertion that the 
car was in a clean condition when it was collected. However, I have compared the 
photographs he has supplied against those taken by the collection agent and included in the 
report. Mr Ss photographs are not as clear or as detailed as those done by the agent, but I 
have been able to identify several areas of damage which are shown in both set of photos.
The front right bumper at the bottom has scratches on both sets of photographs. Although 
those supplied by Mr S are less obvious one can see the same marks in the same spot. The 
rear left lower bumper is also shown with marks on both sets of photographs. Likewise, I can 
see the alloys wheel have been damaged, though I believe that is not disputed.
I have noted that the £30 charge for the missing V5 was removed and MBFS made a 
goodwill gesture of £290. Our investigator also suggested that the charge for the chipped 
front windscreen was not appropriate as he didnt believe they exceeded the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing (BVRLA) Guidelines on fair wear and tear. He also felt the charge of £10 
for the car being dirty was unreasonable. 
MBFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr S did not. However, given I am satisfied that the 
areas which MBFS has claimed to have been damaged which are also shown as damaged 
in Mr Ss photographs it is reasonable that the other areas identified in the agents report are 
likely to be accurate.
I have noted that Mr S says that Ms A was told the missing items would be collected by the 
agent later. Although I wasnt present at the collection, I find this difficult to accept. 
Collections agents normally have an established routine and this claim goes outside what I 
would expect of them. Therefore, on balance I do not consider there are grounds to allow me 
to require MBFS to forgo any further charges.
Putting things right
 MBFS should amend the invoice.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the extent that I direct Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to forgo the charges for the dirty exterior and the chipped front 
windscreen.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman