DRN-2831331
The complaint
Miss R has a motor insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI). She says it gave 
her incorrect advice when she called to report an accident.  
What happened
At the time of the accident Miss R was driving her mothers car, using the third-party only 
cover provided by her own policy to do that. The limited cover meant UKI would only repair 
damage to another drivers car. UKI accepted that its first advisor didnt make that clear, and 
wrongly directed Miss R to her mothers insurer. It also accepted that a second advisor told 
Miss R in error to proceed with the repairs and didnt note that shed mentioned a personal 
injury. Later on, an advisor discussed Miss Rs claim with her mother (a data protection 
issue). UKI apologised for all of its poor service and offered Miss R £250 compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Rs complaint. She said being given the right advice 
at the start wouldnt have made a difference, as the damage to Miss Rs mothers car wasnt 
covered by Miss Rs policy. She thought UKI had paid fair compensation to make up for its 
failings. Miss R said UKIs poor advice had led her mother to waste time with her own insurer 
and that repairs to her car were delayed. Her complaint was then passed to me for review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Miss Rs mother was inconvenienced, UKI only had to consider whether 
compensation was payable to Miss R (its customer). I think it acted fairly in accepting that it 
was at fault promptly, apologising and offering her £250. Thats in line with the sum I would 
have required it to pay to make up for the poor service Miss R received. As I think UKI acted 
reasonably in trying to put matters right for Miss R, I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
