DRN-2942132
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft charged when it ought to have realised that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
that Mr S overdraft had become unsustainable for him in October 2019 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr S overdraft from this point. 
Halifax didnt respond to our adjudicators view and Mr S disagreed. So the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr S overdraft in 
October 2019. 
By this point, Halifax would have seen that Mr S had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr S account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Equally Mr S had moved further away from being able to 
return to a credit balance in the period since the last review had been carried out.
Ive seen Mr S comments about his account being in the same position since 2013. But it 
isnt just a case of whether Mr S was using his overdraft regularly. Its a case of whether 
there was a reasonable prospect of him exiting his overdraft. And I think that it was only 
when Mr S limit was increased well above his monthly salary, as per his original complaint, 
and he moved far away from returning to a credit balance that Halifax ought to have taken 
corrective action.
The nature of Mr S overdraft transactions coupled with his account on occasion going into 
credit meant that the account was being run within the terms and conditions and there was 
no suggestion the overdraft had become unsustainable. I appreciate what Mr S has said 
about the source of his funds when the account went into credit. But I wouldnt expect a bank 
to enter into the sort of analysis Mr S has carried out in circumstances where an account 
wasnt displaying any obvious difficulties. 
I dont think a review of the sort Mr S is referring to was necessary until October 2019. And 
Mr S hadnt got in touch prior to this date to say that he was struggling either, which itself 
would have required Halifax to have reviewed his account. In these circumstances, I think 
that it would have been disproportionate for Halifax to have taken corrective action in relation 
to Mr S overdraft, especially in light of the implications, prior to the October 2019 review.    
Overall I think that Halifax ought to have realised that Mr S was experiencing financial 
difficulty by October 2019. And this is the point Halifax should have stopped providing the 
overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr S with forbearance rather than adding even 
more fees and charges on the overdraft. 
As Halifax didnt react to Mr S overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. As this led to Mr S paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of Halifax failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So Halifax needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Halifax need to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr S overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges (not 
already refunded) applied to it from October 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If Halifax considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr S 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the accounts from October 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mr S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr S complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman