DRN-3540232
The complaint
Mr K complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE have unfairly declined his claim for legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) in relation to a personal injury.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr K believes that hes been caused a personal injury by his employer. He made a claim to 
Great Lakes who declined it, relying on a policy exclusion to do so. Mr K doesnt think the 
exclusion has been fairly applied. He complained to Great Lakes and later referred the 
matter to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Overall, she 
felt it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the exclusion. Mr K disagreed and asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. Initially, I agreed with our Investigators overall 
outcome, but not everything that was said in her view. So my thoughts, where they differed, 
were shared with Mr K who was provided a further opportunity to comment. Now that has 
happened, I can go ahead with my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here isnt to make a finding on Mr Ks medical conditions or to speculate on the 
actions and intentions of his employer. I can only consider the actions of Great Lakes. Great 
Lakes have sought to rely on a policy exclusion to decline Mr Ks claim  my consideration is 
limited to whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances when doing 
so. 
Mr Ks policy provides cover to pursue a legal action in respect of your death or personal 
injury. But like any policy there are always further terms conditions and exclusions to be 
considered. Here there is a relevant exclusion which says the insurer will not pay for any 
claim relating to Any illness or bodily injury which happens gradually or is not caused by a 
specific or sudden accident.
The circumstances surrounding Mr Ks claim are set out in the particulars of claim that he 
submitted to Great Lakes. Ill include a few relevant parts below (my emphasis added):
The claimant has become illas a result of the Defendants acts of mistreatment, 
harassment, social bullying and/or defamation against the Claimant over [a] prolonged 
period
The Claimant was subject to numerous mistreatmentswhichmade his work environment 
extremely stressful and eventually resulted in the Claimants ill health, disability and 
incapacity
Despite the Claimant sending the Defendant express warnings in his sick notes saying work 
stress as a cause of his medical conditions
The Claimant gave clear warning that mistreatment and breaches at work were harming his 
health prior to becoming disabled and incapacitated
I think the above clearly evidences that Mr K believes that he was mistreated, harassed and 
bullied by his employer and that this is what caused him harm. 
I also think its clear that this occurred over an extended period of time. Mr K says that there 
was a specific event (his demotion in 2019) which caused him harm. I dont think Great 
Lakes acted unreasonably when concluding that the root cause of harm to Mr K wasnt a 
sudden or specific accident. I agree the particulars of claim support that the harm to Mr K  
wasnt caused by one specific incident as he alleges.   
Further to this, the word accident isnt specifically defined in the policy. And taking this at its 
everyday or common meaning, I dont think the circumstances described in Mr Ks own 
particulars of claim, can fairly be described as an accident. I also dont agree that the actions 
of his employer, in how they decided to treat him over a period of time, can fairly and 
reasonably be considered to be an accident. As such, I dont think Great Lakes acted 
outside the policy terms or unfairly when declining the claim based on the exclusion quoted 
and Im not going to require them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman