DRN-3325910
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he got from Santander UK Plc when he applied for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr L was moving to Scotland for work and contacted Santander in April 2021 to
arrange a mortgage and was told the application process takes around 4-6 weeks. Mr L told 
Santander that houses in Scotland tend to sell for over the asking price. Mr L said he was 
looking to buy a property and had an offer turned out initially as it wouldve meant him taking 
a 100% mortgage. There was a discussion with the adviser about Mr L borrowing £144,000 
with a loan to value (LTV) of 95%.
Mr L had a homebuyers report carried out on 15 April 2021 which valued the property at
£150,000. In a call with Santander dated 27 April 2021, it was explained that if he offered
£155,00, he would need to make up the difference himself.
On 28 April 2021, Mr L called the adviser to confirm his offer of £152,000 had been
accepted and he provided the details of the mortgage as £144,000, with a 5% deposit.
There was a discussion around the valuation of £150,000 and Mr L explained that he would
struggle to find the extra £2,000. Mr L mentioned selling his car or applying for an overdraft if 
need be. The adviser confirmed the decision on the mortgage was subject to underwriting 
after the appointment which was booked for 5 May 2021.
On 5 May 2021 the application was completed, and Mr L raised concerns about the 
valuation being lower than the purchase price. The adviser said there was some flexibility 
and Mr L mentioned selling the car as an option. The adviser took some details and 
discussed the option of a joint mortgage, but Mr L proceeded as a sole applicant.
Mr L explained that he needed to give 28 days notice on his rental property and asked the
adviser if he could foresee any issues. The adviser said he couldnt see any issues, but that 
the application had to be reviewed by the underwriter as sometimes extra questions flag up 
and Mr L should have a decision with 3-5 working days.
On 14 May 2021 Mr Ls application was approved and the next stage was the valuation of 
the property by Santander. Mr L asked if it would be alright if the valuation came back at
£150,000 despite the purchase price of £152,000 and the adviser said it would be.
Mr L called for an update on the survey on 18 May 2021 and was told it should be
arranged by the following week. On 19 May 2021, Santander called to check the source of 
the deposit which was coming from Mr Ls mother-in-law who lived abroad, but she was 
unable to supply this as she was self-isolating. Mr L said he needed to move in by 25 June 
2021.The mortgage offer was issued on 8 June 2021 for £142,500 over 27 years on a 
repayment basis.
Mr L then had to sell your car for £7,261 to make up the shortfall as otherwise hed be
homeless having handed in the notice for the rental property. Mr L said this was very
stressful for himself and his family and that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the mortgage 
if hed known that he couldnt get a mortgage based on the £152,000 purchase price.
Mr L complained to Santander and they sent a final response letter on 8 July 2021 upholding
his complaint and offered £300 compensation for the poor service. Mr R didnt accept this
and raised a SAR on 14 July 2021. Mr L received the data on 10 August 2021 but couldnt
read much of it and couldnt listen to the calls. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as the investigator felt that Mr L was aware that he would have 
to make up the shortfall if the valuation was lower than the purchase price. Mr L disagreed 
and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L clearly had a very stressful time moving to a new house from England to Scotland. Mr L 
says that Santander didnt make it easy for him and his family. As I understand it Mr Ls main 
issue and the source of his trouble is that when the told Santander that in Scotland the 
practice was to offer over the valuation - and the price agreed was £2,000 over the valuation 
- but that then Santander would only offer a mortgage based on 95% of the valuation. Mr L 
says that he would not have bought a house for £152,000 had he known that the extra 
£2,000 could not be added to the valuation. Mr L had not anticipated this and it put him in 
severe financial difficulty and pressure as in the meantime he had handed in notice on his 
rented property and without the purchase he and his family would have nowhere to go. So, 
he had to sell his car at an undervalue to part fund the purchase price.
As invariably happens in these cases, Santander made its mortgage offer based on the 
valuation of the house, not on the purchase price, and Mr L had to make up the difference. 
Mr Ls point is that he was misled to believe that this in fact wouldnt be the case and that 
Santander would base its mortgage offer on the purchase price. In order to come to a 
decision, Ive had to consider the phone calls between Mr L and Santander. I note that at an 
early stage in the discussion of 28 April 2021, Mr L was aware that there might be a £2,000 
shortfall as at that stage although he was hoping he wouldnt have to do it, he was looking at 
ways to raise the £2,000. 
I think its clear at that stage that Mr L was aware that if he went ahead with the purchase 
and if the valuation didnt equal the purchase price that he would have to find the £2,000. I 
note in that call he was hoping that Santander might work on a margin of error but the 
adviser said that Santander would work with whatever the valuation said. I accept that Mr L 
might have hoped that Santander would work with some margin of error on the valuation but 
that was not something that Mr L was told by Santander. I agree that in two further calls on 4 
and 14 May, Mr L was left with the hope of greater flexibility from Santander but in neither 
call could I say that it was reasonable for Mr L to assume that Santander would proceed to 
make a mortgage offer based on the purchase price rather than the valuation. 
Santander has accepted that its advisers could have been clearer on those calls. But I dont 
accept that it was reasonable for Mr L to assume that Santander would make a mortgage 
offer different than its normal practice.  In any case, from the earlier discussions that Mr L 
had with Santander Im clear that Mr L was aware that it was likely hed have to find some 
more money to complete the purchase than simply the 95% mortgage and 5% deposit. I 
know Mr L had to sell his car but in the call of 28 April, he talks about that and how its going 
to be sold so it seems to me hat Mr L, although he was hoping that things might work out 
differently, knew that if he proceeded with Santander that he was likely to have to find extra 
money to complete the purchase and Santander did nothing wrong by adapting the normal practice of basing its mortgage offer on the valuation rather than the purchase price. 
I also accept that the application could have been processed faster although the time taken 
wasnt excessive. I note that there was an issue about the source of the deposit from abroad 
which resulted in part of the delay but seems a legitimate concern for Santander to raise. I 
also accept that Santanders information could have been clearer in the phone calls of May. I 
dont agree that it was at Santanders instigation that Mr L handed in the notice on his rented 
property as at that stage the adviser told Mr L that the application had to be reviewed by an 
underwriter. 
But, because of Santanders failures in respect of these service issues, I accept that it is fair 
that Santander pay compensation of £300 which I understand it has already done. I 
appreciate that this was a very stressful time for Mr L and, although he seems to have got a 
good deal on the purchase price of his new home, I know that money was tight and he feels 
let down by Santander. But my view of the complaint is that, although Mr L hoped that it 
would be different, he was aware that he would have to make up the shortfall if the valuation 
didnt support the price he paid for the new property and proceeded to buy the house with 
that knowledge. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I recognise that there was an issue 
with the SAR request and how the data was supplied to Mr L, but this hasnt affected the 
outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman