DRN-3122655
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy at the customer service she received from Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Halifax when she contacted the bank to discuss her mortgage account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are set out in the correspondence between Ms R and Halifax, 
and in the letters from our investigator. The background to the complaint is well known to all 
the parties, so I dont need to repeat all the detail here. Our decisions are published, and so 
its important that I dont include any information that might lead to Ms R being identified.
Briefly, Ms R has a mortgage account with Halifax that shes had for a number of years. 
Because of this, the system on which the mortgage account is held and administered is an 
historic one to which not all Halifax employees have access. As a result, when Ms R has 
telephoned Halifax to discuss her mortgage, it has sometimes not been possible for the staff 
members who took the call to identify or access the account.
Ms R complained to Halifax about this, and said that the difficulty in trying to speak to 
someone at the bank had caused her considerable upset. In its final response letter, Halifax 
explained about the historic system, and provided Ms R with three telephone numbers to use 
for general enquiries, mortgages in arrears and high levels of arrears. The bank explained 
that it wasnt able to give Ms R a dedicated telephone number to register new complaints.
Halifax also provided Ms R with details of free debt advisory services. The bank 
acknowledged that Ms R had been caused some trouble and upset, and paid her £100 
compensation. 
The bank later paid Ms R a further £50 compensation because Ms R was still unhappy about 
the issue, and was also unhappy with the banks complaints process.
Dissatisfied with how Halifax had dealt with both her mortgage account and her complaints, 
Ms R referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The investigator looked 
at what had happened and thought Halifax had done enough to put things right by giving 
Ms R telephone numbers to call. 
He explained that he didnt have any control over Halifaxs systems or staffing, and also 
wasnt persuaded that a fine the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had imposed on the 
bank in relation to other matters was of relevance. Overall, he thought the compensation 
offered of £150 and the telephone numbers provided were sufficient to resolve the 
complaint. He didnt think any further action needed to be taken by the bank.
Ms R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Although Ms R has 
been given several extensions of time to provide any new evidence or arguments, she has 
not done so and the time to respond has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Ms R to telephone Halifax in the hope 
of speaking to someone about her mortgage, only to find that this wasnt possible because 
her mortgage was on a system to which not all staff have access. I can see from her account 
number that its not in the standard Halifax format, which explains why the account couldnt 
be identified on the main Halifax system.
I cant tell Halifax what computer or account-management systems it should have in place, 
so its outside my powers to order Halifax to change anything about the way it holds the 
records of, or administers, Ms Rs mortgage account. If the bank had not already done so, I 
would have told Halifax to provide Ms R with phone numbers for departments where staff 
could see her account details. But Halifax has already done this in its final response letter.
Halifax has also paid Ms R compensation totalling £150, which, in the circumstances, I think 
is fair, reasonable and proportionate. Ive noted what Ms R has said about a fine imposed on 
the bank by the FCA. But I dont think this is relevant to the specific issues I am considering 
here.
I appreciate Ms R is also unhappy about the way Halifax has dealt with her complaints, but 
complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, and so its not something I can consider here.
Overall, I think that Halifax has done enough to settle the complaint by providing Ms R with 
three telephone numbers for her to contact the bank. It has also provided her with details of 
free debt advisory services and paid compensation of £150. I do not think Halifax needs to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Finally, I understand Ms Rs mortgage is in arrears of over £130,000 and that, prior to the 
pandemic, the account was with its evictions team and the bank was about to enforce a 
possession order. I think it is only fair to explain here that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
cant interfere in court action and we dont have any power to overturn or vary a possession 
order. 
If Ms R has concerns about the arrears or the banks recovery action, she will need to raise 
those issues with the court in which the possession order was granted. Thats because the 
court has already decided that Halifax is entitled to possession, and so it is only the court 
which can change that decision.
I am explaining this because I would not want Ms R to be under any misunderstanding that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service would have any power to order Halifax to put matters on 
hold in relation to possession or recovery action through the courts, should Ms R raise any 
further complaints with us about her mortgage. If the bank decides to proceed with taking 
possession of the property, Ms R would need to ask the court to suspend possession, in line 
with the courts powers under the Administration of Justice Acts.
If Ms R hasnt already done so, I would urge her to contact one of the free debt advisory 
services, the details of which Halifax has already provided to her. The arrears situation is 
very serious, and I think it would be helpful for Ms R to have some advice about her options.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman