DRN-1958817
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC paid all the compensation it offered for the mis-
selling of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to his and Mrs Ts insolvency 
practitioner (IP). Mr T thinks compensation should have been paid directly to him for this 
mis-sale.
What happened
Mr T was sold a single premium PPI policy when he took out a loan with Barclays. The PPI 
premium was added to his loan and therefore attracted interest. 
Mr T subsequently complained to Barclays that hed been mis-sold the PPI policy. Barclays 
investigated his complaint and agreed that the policy had been mis-sold. It offered £7,213.14 
in compensation for this mis-sale. But as Barclays was aware that Mr and Mrs T had entered 
into an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA), and their IP had confirmed an interest in this 
offer, it paid this money directly to the IP.
Mr T says Barclays shouldnt have paid all the compensation to the IP. And he thinks 
Barclays should have given him more time to respond to its offer before making the 
payment.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought Barclays had 
done what this service would have expected it to do in these circumstances.
Mr T doesnt agree with the adjudicators view. He still thinks he hasnt received the 
compensation rightly due to him, personally, as a result of the mis-sale. He says Barclays 
knew about the mis-selling of PPI before the IVA started. So, at the very least, he thinks it 
should have paid him the compensation due up until that time.
As Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me to look at 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
As Barclays has already upheld Mr Ts complaint, I dont need to consider whether the policy 
was mis-sold. Barclays has also adopted the approach agreed with this service for 
calculating the amount of compensation which should be paid. And Mr T doesnt appear to 
be complaining about the way the offer was calculated. So I wont be looking in any detail at 
these calculations either.
What I need to decide is whether Barclays should have paid any compensation directly to Mr 
T and if it should have allowed Mr T more time to respond to its offer letter before paying his 
IP.
The IVA which Mr and Mrs T entered into effectively drew a line under unpaid debts which 
had arisen before it was put in place. The IP could use assets Mr and Mrs T had an 
entitlement to from before the IVA to pay off as much of this debt as possible.
I can see that the compensation offer from Barclays relates to a mis-sale that took place 
before this IVA was put in place. So its been treated as an asset which was available to the 
IP to use in paying off debts within the IVA. The fact that Mr T might not have been aware of 
this asset before entering the IVA doesnt preclude its use for this purpose.
The position might have been slightly different if the PPI mis-sale had been the sole  or 
even primary  reason why Mr and Mrs T had entered into their IVA. In these circumstances, 
additional costs that inevitably arise as a result of an IVA might have been avoided. But I 
dont think this was the case here. In the completion statement for Mr and Mrs Ts IVA, I can 
see that the compensation paid by Barclays to the IP has been recorded as a receipt 
available for distribution to Mr and Mrs Ts creditors. This statement also shows that the 
balance of debts left unpaid on completion of the IPA was still significantly in excess of this 
amount. In these circumstances, I dont think the mis-sale of the PPI can fairly be said to 
have caused Mr and Mrs T to enter into the IVA. 
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong when it paid 
Mr and Mrs Ts IP the full amount due from this PPI mis-sale. I think this is what it was 
required to do having been notified by the IP of its interest in the offer. But if Mr T thinks that 
the IP should have done something different to what it did once it had received this payment, 
then this is a separate matter and one for him to take up directly with the IP in the first 
instance.
I appreciate that, notwithstanding what Ive said about Barclays having to pay this PPI 
compensation directly to his IP, Mr T may still feel that he has been treated unfairly. So it 
may be helpful if I explain why I dont think that this is the case.
When a business agrees to pay compensation for the mis-sale of a PPI policy, we expect it  
as far as is practical  to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the sale 
hadnt taken place. If Mr T hadnt taken out the policy he wouldnt have incurred the 
associated costs. These costs include the single premium added to his loan and the interest 
charged on that premium as a result of this. To allow for the fact that Mr T can be considered 
to have lost out by not having the use of this money, we also expect simple interest of 8% to 
be added to these costs each year - from when they were incurred until when the refund is 
made.
This is the way Barclays has calculated the compensation figure of £7,213.14 due on the 
mis-sale of this PPI policy to Mr T. So it seems reasonable to think that, had Mr T not bought 
the policy, he might have entered his IPA with total debts which were lower by broadly this 
amount. And on completion of the IPA, the amount of debt which still remained unpaid could 
be expected to have been broadly in line with the amount shown on Mr and Mrs Ts actual 
completion statement for their IVA (where the mis-sale compensation has been used by the 
IP to reduce the amount of unpaid debts). 
In these circumstances, it seems to me that the use of the compensation payment to reduce 
unpaid debts in the IVA is likely to have put Mr T in broadly the same position he would have 
been had the mis-sale not happened. So, as well as being what Barclays was expected to 
do, I think the payment of the compensation to the IP resulted in a fair outcome for Mr T.Ive thought about what Mr T has said about Barclays being aware of PPI mis-selling before 
he entered the IVA. Mr T thinks this means that Barclays should have paid him directly the 
compensation due which relates to the period before the IVA commenced. But I dont agree. 
Although Barclays may have been aware that some PPI policies had been mis-sold at this 
stage, it hadnt investigated and made a decision on Mr Ts specific case and wasnt 
required to do so by then. So, once again, I dont think what Mr T has said means that 
Barclays did anything wrong in paying all the compensation to the IP. For reasons that Ive 
already explained, I think this represents a fair outcome to Mr Ts complaint.
Finally, Ive thought about whether Mr T is right in saying that Barclays should have delayed 
payment of the compensation to allow him more time to respond to its offer letter. But I dont 
think Barclays needed to do this. There wasnt a requirement on Barclays to receive 
acceptance of its offer from Mr T before making this payment. And Mr T was still able to 
complain to Barclays about the way it had handled his original complaint and, thereafter, to 
this service. So I dont think Mr T has been disadvantaged because there wasnt time for him 
to respond to Barclays offer letter before the payment was made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC and dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman