DRN-2898171
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr Z complains about the way an insurance claim was handled by Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
What happened
In 2018, a third party made a claim against Mrs Ms insurance policy, on which Mr Z is a 
named driver.
Mr Z told Aviva that he refuted the claim. He admitted being at the location of the accident 
abut said he wasnt involved in a collision.
After reviewing the evidence, Aviva accepted liability. As a result, Mrs Ms premiums 
increased.
Mr Z complained to Aviva. He said the evidence showed he wasnt at fault and he didnt 
think the claim had been correctly decided. He said hed spoken to the claims team and they 
had given him the expectation that the claim would be defended.
In response, Aviva said it couldnt change how the claim had been settled. It acknowledged 
that there had been a miscommunication and offered compensation of £150.
Mrs M and Mr Z remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought Aviva had handled the claim fairly. He said although it had provided 
incorrect information to Mr Z after the claim had been settled, the claim itself had been 
handled correctly.
Mr Z didnt agree. He didnt think the evidence was conclusive and said he hadnt been 
involved in the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain my role. I will look at the evidence which was available to Aviva and 
determine whether it handled the claim fairly. But I wont be determining myself who was at 
fault for the accident.
I can see that Aviva closed the claim in June 2018. It accepted liability on the basis of the 
damage to Mr Zs car and independent witness evidence.
I can see that Mr Z spoke to Aviva in July 2018. During the call, he was told that the claim 
had been closed by mistake. Aviva has accepted that Mr Z was given incorrect information 
here.
Mr Z feels that the engineering evidence supports his version of events. He says the report 
and photos show that there were no recent repairs to his car or damage consistent with the 
damage to the other partys car.
The terms and conditions of Mrs M and Mr Zs insurance policy say that Aviva has the right 
to settle claims without needing permission of the policy holder. But I would expect any 
decision taken by Aviva to be reasonable and supported by the evidence.
Ive looked at the evidence. As Ive already said, its not for me to determine who was at fault. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to reach the decision that it 
should accept liability on behalf of Mr Z. So, Im satisfied that Aviva handled the claim fairly, 
although I appreciate Mr Z doesnt agree with Avivas decision.
Its clear that Aviva gave Mr Z  misleading information when he called. This error doesnt 
affect my assessment that Aviva handled the claim fairly. I can see that Aviva acknowledged 
the error and paid compensation of £150, which I think was fair in the circumstances.
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint,.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman