DRN-2816946
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the repairs that were carried out to his car by UK Insurance Limited 
(UKI) following an accident.
What happened
Mr W was involved in a no-fault car accident in November 2019 which he reported to UKI. 
They arranged for their approved garage to collect the car and repair it. When the car was 
collected, Mr W informed the garage that there was a rumbling noise coming from the rear of 
the car. The car was returned to Mr W in early December 2019. Mr W noticed that there 
were some outstanding issues with the headrests that he reported to UKI and these were 
repaired. Mr W says that when he first drove the car in January 2020, he noticed that there 
was still an unusual noise coming from the car at times, which gradually got worse.
In February 2020 Mr W took the car to his own main dealer garage to investigate the noise 
and repair it. The garage replaced the rear axle. When Mr W collected the car he told his 
garage about the accident and they said they thought the damage to the axle could have 
been caused by the accident.
Mr W contacted UKI to request a refund of the cost of the repairs to his car. This was in the 
sum of £2,623.44. UKI asked Mr W to provide photos of the damaged axle but Mr W was 
unable to do this as it had been returned to the manufacturer abroad as a service exchange. 
He provided a copy of his garages invoice and a letter explaining that they believed the 
damage was highly likely to have been caused in the accident.
UKI said that they did not think there was enough evidence to show that the axle damage 
was caused in the accident, and not by wear and tear. They declined to refund the cost of 
the repair. They said that Mr W did not inform them, or obtain approval, before the repair 
was carried out. They said that without photos of the damaged part they could not now be 
sure that the damage was accident related. They said that their position has been prejudiced 
as they have not had an opportunity of inspecting the vehicle or approving the costs before 
the repair was done.
Mr W was not happy with this and complained to UKI. He felt that the issue had not been 
properly investigated. He said that he had told the approved garage when they originally 
collected the car for repair that there was a noise coming from the rear. He said that he was 
not able to now provide the photos requested but had asked UKI to speak to his garage 
about the repairs, but they had not done so. UKI did not uphold his complaint as they did not 
think that they had enough evidence that the damage was caused in the accident. Mr W 
brought the matter to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and initially upheld it on two separate 
occasions. She thought that it was more likely than not that the damage to the axle had been 
caused in the accident. She accepted that Mr W was unable to provide photos as UKI had 
taken three weeks to request these and by this time the axle had been returned to the 
manufacturer. She was satisfied that Mr W understood the procedure for reporting issues 
with his car but that he had not initially considered the problem to be accident related. She 
thought that the damage to the axle may not have been immediately obvious and that it 
would be fair for UKI to cover the cost of the repairs. UKI did not agree. They said that the 
noise problem had only been brought to their attention after the repair had been done and 
the car had been road tested before being returned to Mr W. No issues had been present at 
that time. They said Mr W should have reported the problem to them as he knew the 
procedure for reporting any outstanding issues as he had reported the headrests to them. 
They said that their position had been prejudiced and without photos they could not be sure 
that the damage was accident related. 
Our investigator considered the issues again and came to a different view. She referred to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. She concluded that UKI had been prejudiced by the 
repairs being carried out without being given an opportunity to inspect the vehicle 
themselves, or to see photos of any damage. 
Mr W did not accept our investigators view. He said that he had informed UKI of a noise 
from the rear of the vehicle when it was first collected for repair, and that if the car had been 
repaired properly in the first instance, he would not have had to complete the repairs himself. 
He asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure both parties that I have read and considered everything that has been provided. 
What I have to decide is whether UKI have acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of their policy and acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to cover the cost of the 
repair to the rear axle.
Ive looked at UKIs insurance policy booklet which contains the terms and conditions of their 
insurance. I think that Section 4 on page 13 which deals with repairs is relevant. It says that 
if repairs are to be carried out by a repairer chosen by the insured, then a detailed repair 
estimate must be approved before work begins. I appreciate that this is aimed primarily at a 
situation where the insured chooses all the repairs to be carried out by their own repairer, 
but I think it applies equally well to the circumstances of this case. I think the terms and 
conditions are clear - that approval should be sought before any repairs are carried out.
When repairs are carried out by the insurers approved garage, we would expect the repairs 
to be carried out to a reasonable standard. If there are any problems with the repairs, we 
would expect the insurer to put them right. However, in order to put them right, any problem 
would need to be reported to the insurer. Mr W is aware of this as he reported to UKI a 
problem with the headrests shortly after the car was returned to him.
Mr W says that he informed UKIs approved garage that there was a rumbling noise coming 
from the rear of the car when they initially collected it for repair. I accept this as I can see 
that it is noted on the collection sheet completed by the garage. The garage say that they 
believed this noise was caused by the exhaust which had sustained some damage, and I 
can see from a list of parts that repairs to the exhaust system were carried out. After the 
repairs were completed, the garage say that they carried out a road test and no issues 
remained. This is recorded in their paperwork.
Mr W accepts that he did not drive the car until early January 2020 as he was away on 
holiday. When he did drive the car he says that he noticed it was still making a slight noise 
and that this got progressively worse the more he drove it. I appreciate that Mr W says that he didnt initially think that the problem was accident related, but the noise was noticeable as 
soon as he started driving the car and it had not been driven since the repairs were 
completed. Mr W was also aware that there had been a noise problem when the car went in 
for repair. I think in the circumstances it would have been reasonable for Mr W to have 
reported this immediately to UKI to investigate.  
The problem is that by not reporting the problem to UKI, they were not given the opportunity 
to inspect the car before the repairs were carried out. I have to consider whether they were 
prejudiced by this. I believe that they were. By not inspecting the car they were not able to 
satisfy themselves that the noise was coming from the rear axle, that the rear axle was 
damaged, and that the damage was caused by the accident. 
The only evidence that the axle damage might be accident related comes from Mr Ws 
garage. I understand that they were not aware of the accident before they repaired the car. 
When Mr W collected the car he told them about the accident and they said that the damage 
was likely to have been caused in the accident. However, as they were not aware of the 
accident until after completing the repairs, this meant that they did not assess the damage to 
the rear axle in this light. They later sent a letter to Mr W explaining that in their view the 
damage was highly likely to have been caused by the components being subjected to a 
severe shock as a result of the rear end collision damage. The garage did not, however, 
see any reports on the accident damage although they were informed by Mr W that the 
accident damage was extensive. UKIs approved garage suggest that the accident damage 
was not enough to cause such damage to the axle and that the impact was some distance 
from the rear axle. They say the bodywork of the car took the brunt of the force not the 
vehicle drive train bolted to it. I think the extent of the accident damage is important as it is 
likely to have a bearing on whether the axle damage could have been accident related. 
Although I dont doubt that Mr Ws garage gave an honest opinion on how they thought the 
damage may have been caused, I think that without knowing the true extent of the accident 
damage, their opinion does not represent the full picture. 
UKI have suggested that there may be other explanations for the damage to the axle, such 
as wear and tear. They noted that Mr Ws car had covered approximately 50,000 miles over 
18 months and over 100,000 miles overall. They also mentioned the use of the tow bar. I 
dont think the use of the tow bar, however, is relevant as Im aware that Mr W said the tow 
bar didnt need to be replaced during the repairs as he never used it. Wear and tear is 
relevant though as UKI would not be expected to repair damage that is due to general wear 
and tear.
UKI asked for photos of the damaged axle which Mr W was unable to provide. However, 
these were not requested until three weeks after the repairs had been completed and by this 
time the rear axle had been returned to the manufacturer abroad. If they had been requested 
earlier, Mr W may have been able to provide them. However, even if photos had been 
provided, I am not clear how much this would have assisted UKI. Apart from confirming that 
there was damage to the rear axle, Im not sure that they would have revealed the cause. 
Once the car had been repaired, I think it would have been difficult for UKI to carry out a 
proper assessment of the cause of the damage.
I know that Mr W will be disappointed, but on balance I dont think I can fairly say that the 
damage to the rear axle was accident related and therefore UKIs responsibility to repair. I 
would like to reassure Mr W that I have considered all the issues he raised but am satisfied 
that UKI have been prejudiced by not having an opportunity to examine the car and consider 
any repairs themselves. I therefore do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr Ws complaint and dont require U K Insurance Limited to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman