DRN-3885118
The complaint
Mr D and Miss R complain that Ageas Insurance Limited have unfairly declined a claim they
made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to Ageas include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
Mr D and Miss R have a legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. They have 
been involved in a dispute about a property they own with their neighbours for a number of 
years. 
They previously sought to claim on this policy, and when Ageas declined cover for the claim 
on the last occasion, they approached our service. In August 2021 another Ombudsman 
said that Ageas should reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions.
The subject of this present complaint is Ageas decision to decline cover again after 
reconsidering Mr D and Miss Rs claim in accordance with the Ombudsmans decision. 
Ageas decision to do so was based on their determination that the type of claim Mr D and 
Miss R wished to bring was for a repair and renovation dispute. Ageas said the policy only 
covered those claims if they were contractual disputes with a contracting party about the 
repair and renovation of their property. In this case Mr D and Miss R were in dispute with the 
adjoining owner and not a contracting party so the claim didnt fall within cover.
Mr D and Miss R also asked Ageas to consider the claim under the nuisance section of the 
policy. Ageas said the claim wouldnt fall under this section either because the policy 
requires the damage complained of to be emanating from the policyholders own property 
but in this case, it was emanating from the adjoining property.
Our investigator considered Mr D and Miss Rs complaint and concluded that it should be 
upheld. She took the view that whilst Ageas were entitled to turn down the claim in reliance 
of their policy terms in the way that they had, they ought to have done this more promptly. 
She thought that Ageas should compensate Mr D and Miss R for the delay by paying them 
£100 in compensation. 
Ageas agree with the outcome reached by the investigator but Mr D and Miss R dont. As 
such the matter has been referred to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in the same way and for the same reasons reached 
by the investigator.
When explaining my findings, Im mindful of the considerable representations Mr D and Miss 
R have made in response to the investigators explanations of her assessment of their 
complaint. I dont intend to repeat those representations nor address those that arent 
relevant to the outcome of this complaint. No disrespect is intended to Mr D and Miss R in 
my doing so. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this Service.
The key issues to determine in this complaint are whether the policy terms cited by Ageas 
apply to the claim being made and whether Ageas are entitled to rely on the sections of 
cover they have to turn down Mr D and Miss Rs claim. In addition, I need to determine 
whether there have been any delays by Ageas in communicating their decision to decline 
cover, such that compensation should be paid to Mr D and Miss R.
Mr D and Miss R have questioned whether the policy terms Ageas have provided apply to 
the relevant policy period they are claiming for and whether Ageas is the correct insurer. 
Theyve cited several reasons why this might not be the case. Ageas have confirmed that 
the terms theyve relied on are applicable to the policy period Mr D and Miss R are claiming 
for. And although Mr D and Miss R have raised questions about this, I havent seen anything 
to support that different policy terms apply or that a different insurer is responsible. If Mr D 
and Miss R had produced evidence to support that was definitively the case, I might have 
reached a different conclusion, but in the absence of anything to suggest Ageas assertion, 
based on its own records is wrong, I cant say that different terms and a different insurer is 
responsible for that period of cover. And its not for me to determine who is responsible for 
historic periods of insurance generally. Thats for the parties to establish. Given the 
information I have, Im satisfied that the terms I have are appliable. It follows that my remit is 
to decide whether those policy terms were applied fairly. And thats what Ive done below.
Ageas turned down cover firstly because they said the dispute Mr D and Miss R were 
involved in was a repair and renovation dispute. I agree that this is the most applicable 
section of cover in this particular policy. Thats because Mr D and Miss R were seeking legal 
expenses insurance cover for a claim against the adjoining owner of their property for 
damage caused to their property on an ongoing basis because of rainwater seeping through 
that property to their own.  Under that section the policy says:
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Insured against Legal Expenses incurred in the pursuit 
or defence of any dispute or legal proceedings made by or brought against the Insured in a 
contractual dispute with a Contracting Party over the repair or renovation of the Insured 
Property provided that:
a) the Legal Expenses incurred in any Claim or legal proceedings shall be limited to 75% of 
the sum in dispute or the Limit of Indemnity, whichever is less;
b) the amount in dispute exceeds £1,000 and the contract value is less than £300,000;
c) the work is commenced within the Period of Insurance.
Mr D and Miss R have said they did have a contract with the adjoining owner of the property 
about the repair of their property. Theyve produced some correspondence they say 
supports this. I dont agree that what theyve produced amounts to a contract with a 
Contracting Party as defined in the policy as A person, firm or company domiciled within 
the Territorial Limits with whom the Insured has a direct contractual relationship. And whilst 
the owner of the adjoining property might well have agreed to remedy the damage after the 
dispute arose, Ive seen nothing to suggest that a contract was entered into with terms to this 
effect for the repair of Mr D and Miss Rs property. And in any event the claim Mr D and Miss 
R wish to make is for costs arising out of the damage to their property and not in respect of 
an agreement by the adjoining owner to repair it. So, I dont think their claim is covered 
under this section of the policy nor do I think it was unfair for Ageas to turn down cover in the 
way that they have.Mr D and Miss R asked Ageas to consider the claim under the nuisance section of the 
policy. That term says:
Section A  Property Disputes
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Insured against Legal Expenses incurred in any dispute 
or legal proceedings made by or brought against the Insured:
.
c) over actual or alleged nuisance emanating from the Insured Property;
Ageas said the alleged nuisance wasnt emanating from Mr D and Miss Rs property. From 
everything Mr D and Miss R have said, Im satisfied that their complaint has always been 
that the water ingress was emanating from the adjoining property. I dont doubt that this is 
likely to amount to a nuisance in law which is what Mr D and Miss R say their solicitors have 
argued. But thats not enough for their claim to be covered. The nuisance itself needs to 
emanate from their property and in this case it doesnt. So, I cant say that Ageas need to 
cover their claim under this section.
Ive looked at the delay in Ageas communicating their claims decision to Mr D and Miss R, 
and I agree with the investigator that this should have been communicated sooner. Given 
the time it took them, I think its appropriate for Ageas to pay Mr D and Miss R £100 in 
compensation to compensate them for this. Im pleased to see that Ageas agree with the 
investigators view on this and that theyve agreed to pay this sum to Mr D and Miss R 
directly.
 
Putting things right
Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mr D and Miss R £100 to compensate them for the 
delay in communicating their claims decision to them.
My final decision
I uphold Mr D and Miss Rs complaint against Ageas Limited and direct them to put things 
right by paying the award Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman