DRN-1312128
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Bradford & Bingley Plc have calculated interest on their 
mortgage incorrectly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley. In 2006 they took a further advance 
of £35,000. In 2012 Mr and Mrs D raised concerns about the way the interest had been 
calculated on their original mortgage  they thought theyd been overcharged. But Bradford 
& Bingley didnt agree. As Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy with this they paid off both parts 
of the mortgage in January 2014. They also referred a complaint to our service, which wasnt 
upheld by the ombudsman.
More recently Mr and Mrs D complained about the way interest had been calculated on the 
advance taken in 2006. This had been taken on a repayment basis, but Mr and Mrs D 
believed Bradford & Bingley was calculating interest as if it had been taken on an interest-
only basis. Again, they believed theyd been overcharged and so asked for a refund.
Bradford & Bingley didnt agree Mr and Mrs D had been overcharged. It said interest had 
been calculated on the same terms as the existing mortgage and in line with the mortgage 
terms and conditions. The terms said interest was charged on the balance brought forward 
as at 31 December of each year. 
Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to our service, saying that the advance had been 
taken on different terms. They thought the interest should be calculated based on the 
balance reducing each month.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Bradford & Bingley had 
calculated interest in line with the mortgage account terms, which were the same as the 
original mortgage. He didnt think Mr and Mrs D had been told interest would be calculated in 
the way they thought it should, nor were there any regulations that said Bradford & Bingley 
had to calculate it in that way.
Mr and Mrs D thought it was common sense that interest should be calculated monthly 
based on a reducing balance because it was a repayment mortgage. They didnt think it 
mattered whether or not the regulations said it should be done in this way. Mr and Mrs D 
also remained of the view that the advance was taken on different terms to the original 
mortgage.
As they didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs D, 
so Ill explain why.Mr and Mrs D say the mortgage offer acceptance form, which they received following the 
application for the further advance in May 2006 states, Bradford & Bingley would like to 
offer you the following revised terms. In their view this shows the way interest is 
calculated on the advance is different to the way it was calculated on their original mortgage.
But Bradford & Bingley says the loan taken by Mr and Mrs D in May 2006 was a further 
advance under their original mortgage account. Im satisfied this is the case because the 
mortgage statements Mr and Mrs D have provided covering the original mortgage and the 
advance refer to the same mortgage account number.
I dont think the reference to revised terms in the offer letter is specific enough to mean the 
method of interest calculation had changed. The offer letter sets out the interest rates 
applicable over the term of the mortgage, the early repayment charges and the fees payable. 
It doesnt say how interest will be calculated, other than saying it would charge interest on 
the advance from 31 December 2006.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D believe it is common sense that interest should be charged in the 
way have set out in correspondence with our service, based on the balance reducing 
monthly. And I accept that this is now a common method of interest calculation on a 
mortgage. But there arent any regulations that prohibit mortgage interest being calculated 
annually. And the offer for the further advance doesnt say the method of interest calculation 
had been varied or that it would be calculated monthly going forwards. So, the original 
mortgage terms apply. The original mortgage terms say:
(4) The Society shall be entitled in any year 
a.to charge interest on the amount of the Total Debt on the last day of the immediately 
preceding year and on any sum advanced to or becoming owing by the Borrower 
during the year as from the date on which such sum was advanced or became 
owing.
b.to enter the (prospectively and provisionally) interest for the year in the account of the 
Borrower on the first or any subsequent day in the year.
 
The mortgage terms applicable at the time the advance was taken out in 2006 continue to 
allow for mortgage interest to be calculated in this way:
(2) Annual Interest
We will charge interest as follows.
When we make a loan, we will charge interest on the loan (or the part of it we have 
lent) from the loan release date until the end of the year in which we make the loan.
We will also charge interest on any costs or fees which become due during a year 
from the date on which the costs arise, or the work covered by the fee is done, until 
the end of the year or the date on which you pay them (whichever is earlier). You can 
avoid paying interest on any costs or fees by paying them as soon as they become 
due.
 
In each year (other than the first), we will charge interest for the whole of the year on the 
debt owing at the end of the previous year. (This means that we will charge interest in each 
year on any interest, costs or fees which you have not paid off by the end of the previous 
year).For this reason, I dont think Bradford & Bingley have calculated the interest payable on Mr 
and Mrs Ds mortgage incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman