DRN-3860810
The complaint
Mr B complains that PrePay Technologies Limited reviewed and then closed his account 
without notice.
What happened
Mr B had an account with Monese, one of PrePays agents. In June 2021, Monese 
suspended Mr Bs account, and informed Mr B that it had done this in August. It said itd be 
in touch with the next steps. In March 2022, Monese completed its review and decided to 
close Mr Bs account. In September the outstanding balance on the account, £5, was 
returned to one of Mr Bs other bank accounts.
While all this was happening, Mr B complained to Monese and then referred the complaint to 
us.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 24 January 2023.  I said I thought the 
complaint should be upheld  I thought based on what Id seen, Monese should have given 
Mr B two months notice before it closed his account.  but I wasnt persuaded that what 
Monese had done had had a real impact on Mr B, aside from the inconvenience of having to 
chase Monese to find out what had happened. Monese had already paid Mr B £25 to reflect 
the trouble and upset it had caused. It had now offered a further £20, which was also 
intended to reflect the time Mr B had been deprived of the funds. Based on everything Id 
seen, I thought this was a fair resolution to Mr Bs complaint.
PrePay has replied to say it agrees with my findings.
Mr B doesnt agree. He says he opened this account in order to take advantage of 
promotions Monese ran involving discounted gift cards. If hed received the notice to close, 
he says hed have been able to purchase more discounted gift cards through his account. 
He estimates his losses from this are £50.
He also says that Monese runs a friends referral scheme, and he didnt receive £20 from his 
latest referral.
He says he also found the lack of responses from Monese difficult and frustrating. He wants 
£200 compensation for the time hes taken to sort things out.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monese told Mr B it was closing his account because he was using the account for business 
purposes. But it then told us it didnt have any evidence to support its concerns. It couldnt 
show it had previously warned Mr B it had concerns about the use of the account. And it 
hadnt asked Mr B anything about the payments in question before it concluded the 
payments must be business related.
We asked Mr B about that. He said the payments to and from the account involved an 
account with a third party payment platform he says he used like a bank account. He made 
payments to and from that account using his Monese account. He said he also used the 
Monese account to make occasional payments to friends and family.
With that in mind, I didnt accept that Monese had shown cause to block or close the account 
immediately. There also seemed to have been a long period between the last of these 
payments in May 2020 and the review in June 2021, over a year later. Id also expect 
Monese to complete any review without undue delay  and here it had taken until March 
2022 before Monese decided to close the account and a further six months before it returned 
the remaining funds to Mr B. With all this in mind, I said in my provisional decision that I 
thought the complaint should be upheld.
In my provisional decision, I said that where I uphold a complaint, Id look to put the 
complainant as far as possible in the position theyd be in if things had happened as they 
should have done. Here, Monese blocked and closed Mr Bs account, effectively without 
notice. But the account had just £5 in it at the point the account was closed. Mr B told us he 
only opened the account because he wanted to try it out  and in fact had a number of other 
bank accounts with other financial businesses. Mr B used this account infrequently. The 
terms and conditions otherwise allowed Monese to close the account if it gave two months 
notice  and I thought that Monese would have been acting in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account had it done so. I acknowledged the considerable delay before 
Monese completed its review. But given the balance was just £5, I wasnt persuaded Mr B 
suffered substantial distress or inconvenience because of this  aside from the 
inconvenience of having to chase up Monese to find out what had happened.
Monese had offered Mr B £25 for the trouble and upset it caused. While the complaint was 
with us, Monese had offered a further £20. I thought this was a fair resolution to Mr Bs 
complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points Mr B has raised in response to my provisional decision. 
But this doesnt change my conclusions. Ill explain why.
This account only had £5 in it at the time Monese blocked and closed the account. For the 
reasons Ive already explained, I dont accept that Mr B was caused hardship or distress by 
not having access to this account during this period. Mr B had access to significantly greater 
funds in other accounts. So while Mr B thinks that he should get £200 to reflect the time he 
spent chasing Monese about this, this would be wholly disproportionate. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded blocking this account had any real impact on Mr B at 
all.
I next turn to the financial losses Mr B has mentioned. Mr B says that if Monese had given 
him the proper notice, hed have been able to buy gift cards at a discount. He also says he 
was due a payment of £20 under a referral scheme.
I accept that with hindsight Mr B thinks he might have used the account to buy the 
discounted gift cards. But given Mr B used this account infrequently  and had last used the 
account for that purpose more than a year before Monese reviewed the account  Im not 
persuaded that this is something hed most likely have done. I accept Mr B may have lost the 
chance to do this. But I think thats already more than adequately compensated for in the 
£45 Monese has now agreed to pay.
Similarly, while I acknowledge that Mr B thinks hed have received the £20 referral bonus, Im not persuaded this warrants additional compensation above what Monese has already 
offered  which, to the extent Monese proposed to pay Mr B the £20 rather than calculating 
compensatory interest on the £5 that remained in his account, was already generous.
Looking at everything, even if I take into account the points Mr B has raised, I conclude that 
that £45 Monese has agreed to pay in total will fairly compensate Mr B for both the financial 
and non-financial impact of everything that happened to him. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont accept it would be fair to tell Monese to pay more.
Putting things right
PrePay has already paid Mr B £25. It should also pay him a further £20 to reflect the trouble 
and upset it caused..
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. PrePay Technologies Limited should put things right by doing 
what Ive said above and pay Mr B an additional £20 in addition to the £25 it has already 
paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman