DRN-2757116
The complaint
Mr E complains that Studio Retail Limited added a large amount of interest to his account in 
one go, without warning him.  
What happened
Mr E had a catalogue shopping account with Studio. In January 2021 he noticed his bill had 
increased by around £800 which meant his minimum payment was much higher. He 
contacted Studio to find out why this was as he couldnt afford to make the required 
payment. 
Studio explained that following a dispute in 2017 about the account, a temporary marker had 
been put on it that stopped interest from being added. This should have been removed when 
the dispute was resolved but wasnt, due to Studios error. It only realised in December 2020 
and the marker was removed then. This meant all the interest from that period was added at 
once in January.
Mr E made a complaint. He said the interest being added without warning caused him 
significant distress. 
Studio upheld his complaint It refunded the interest charge and offered £75 compensation to 
make up for the distress is had caused. 
Mr E didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Es complaint be upheld. She thought Studio should pay 
an additional £100 compensation.
Studio didnt agree. It said as it had already refunded over £800 in interest, it didnt think any 
further compensation was due. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio has accepted that it made an error. It didnt remove the marker on Mr Es account 
when the original dispute was settled. And when it corrected this error, this meant all the 
interest was added at once. As it has accepted it got something wrong, I need to consider 
the impact of this mistake on Mr E, in order to decide if it has done enough to put things 
right. 
The interest charge was added in December 2020 and showed up on Mr Es bill in January 
2021. When the charge was added this more than doubled what Mr E owed on the account. 
And took the minimum payment required from around £20 to around £150. This is a 
significant increase. So I understand why this would have been distressing for Mr E.
Further, Studio has confirmed that it didnt contact Mr E before the statement was issued, or 
before the charge showed on his online account. And the statement provided no explanation 
for what the extra fee was for, other than the brief description charges. So Mr E would have 
seen his account balance had increased significantly, but wouldnt have known why. 
Mr E has explained the impact this had on him. He said he was unable to sleep and lost a 
considerable amount of weight due to the strain of knowing he wouldnt be able to meet the 
new minimum repayments. Further, it wasnt until February 2021 that Studio confirmed it 
would refund the interest, so his bills would return to the previous balance. So this meant Mr 
E was waiting over a month, worrying about meeting his payments.  I agree this would have 
been very distressing.
Studio has now refunded the interest which I agree is fair in the circumstances. It has also 
offered £75 compensation to make up for the distress it has caused Mr E. However I dont 
think this is enough to make up for the distress its error caused and the impact this has had 
on Mr E. I agree with our investigator that it should pay an additional £100 compensation to 
make up for the distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require Studio Retail Limited to pay Mr E a total of £175 
compensation.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman