DRN-4008405
The complaint
Mr C complains about the administration of a business insurance policy he held with Hiscox 
Underwriting Limited trading as Hiscox.
What happened
Mr C held an insurance policy with Hiscox. In July 2022 he spoke to Hiscox by telephone 
and said Hiscox had cancelled his policy. He wanted to make a complaint.
Hiscox said his policy had been cancelled in February 2022 because no payment for the 
premium had been received. It agreed to reinstate Mr Cs policy and backdate the cover to 
February, so there was no gap in cover.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
Hiscox had acted fairly. Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint as I thought Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. I said there were two issues that needed to be addressed, and outlined 
my findings as follows:
The policy cancellation
Mr Cs policy was due for renewal in February 2022. In December 2021, documents inviting 
renewal were sent to him and he contacted Hiscox regarding payment for the renewal. In 
January 2022, he sent documents to Hiscox giving details of the account to be used for 
payment.
The policy renewed, and Hiscox attempted to take payment using the details Mr C had 
provided. The payment was unsuccessful. Hiscox sent an email to Mr C saying the payment 
had been unsuccessful and informing him the policy had been cancelled.
I think Hiscox acted too quickly by cancelling the policy in February 2022. From the evidence 
its provided to us, it seems that having been unsuccessful in taking the payment, it 
cancelled the policy and told Mr C about this. Weve been provided a detailed explanation of 
the changes to the payment details prior to February 2022, but nothing has been provided 
showing that Hiscox attempted to resolve the payment issue before cancelling the policy. 
This was a business policy, intended to protect Mr C from liabilities he might incur during the 
course of his work. I dont think it was fair for Hiscox to cancel the policy without attempting 
to speak to Mr C to arrange for alternative payment, for example by telephone and email. I 
dont think Hiscox made reasonable attempts to resolve the payment issue before cancelling 
the policy.
The re-instatement and backdating of cover
Ive listened to the phone calls Mr C had with Hiscox in July 2022. During the course of those 
calls he says he needs a copy of the insurance certificate to provide to a client and its clear 
from these that he wants to re-instate the policy cover. Mr C is told, during the second call, 
that the policy cover will be back-dated to February so that there was no gap in cover. Mr C 
doesnt dispute this or say this isnt what he wanted.
I think Hiscox acted reasonably in back-dating the cover. This would put cover in place for 
the period between February and July 2022 in case of any subsequent claims being made 
against Mr C which were covered by the policy, rather than leaving Mr C potentially exposed 
without insurance coverage.
Having listened to the calls, however, I do think that Mr C was left with an impression that 
some form of compensation or reduction in the premium would be given because of the 
cancellation. I say this because at the outset of the second call, Hiscox representative says 
the cancellation had occurred because of an error at our end. Mr C was also told that the 
representative would be speaking to a senior colleague to see What they are willing to write 
off, with a figure of 50% being mentioned. 
I think from the content of that call, Mr C had a legitimate expectation that Hiscox had 
acknowledged wrongly cancelling the policy in February 2022, and would be making an offer 
to recognise this.
When Hiscox responded to Mr Cs complaint, it made no acknowledgement of any error on 
its part. Indeed, it says the policy was cancelled correctly because of no payment. While its 
mentioned what was said about back-dating cover to February 2022 in these calls, it hasnt 
referred at all to what Mr C was told by its representative about a potential portion of the 
premium being written off, or that it had made an error in cancelling the policy.
It isnt clear what the error Hiscox was referring to. It wasnt mentioned in any further 
correspondence with Mr C or our service. I dont think the nature of the error is particularly 
relevant. By telling Mr C an error had been made, it created an expectation that Hiscox had 
made an error and would be seeking to put this right.
Putting things right
Having concluded that Hiscox didnt act fairly by cancelling the policy in February 2022, and 
also acknowledged an error in July 2022 which then wasnt followed up on, I now need to 
consider how this can be put right.
I think Mr C has been caused distress and inconvenience by these errors. He would always 
have needed some contact with Hiscox in order to resolve the payment issue, and he didnt 
contact Hiscox for several months after the cancellation. Im unclear about how or when Mr 
C discovered the policy hadnt been cancelled. I understand Mr C says he didnt receive the 
cancellation email, but Hiscox has demonstrated it was sent. At the time of his calls in July 
2022, hes aware the policy had been cancelled but the main impetus for the call seems to 
be so he can reinstate the policy and obtain documentation. On balance, I think its more 
likely than not he discovered the policy had been cancelled in July 2022, around the time he 
called. I cant conclude that Mr C was caused distress due to the cancellation from February 
through to July.
Nevertheless, I think if Hiscox had made further attempts to contact Mr C in February 2022, 
such as by phone or additional emails, then its likely he would have taken steps to resolve 
the payment issue. That would have meant distress he suffered after learning the policy had 
been cancelled would have been avoided. 
Similarly, Mr C was left, after speaking to Hiscox in July 2022, with the impression that an error had been made, acknowledged, and would be put right. He then received 
correspondence from Hiscox saying it had done nothing wrong. I think its fair to say that 
would have caused an amount of distress and confusion, having been told two contrasting 
things by Hiscox.
For these reasons, I think its fair to ask Hiscox to pay £100 compensation to Mr C to 
recognise the impact of its errors and mixed messages.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr C and Hiscox responded to my provisional decision.
Mr C accepted my findings and had no further points he wanted to raise or have considered.
Hiscox didnt accept my findings. It made a number of points, which can be summarised as:
In correspondence with Hiscox during the course of the complaint, Mr C had made it 
clear he didnt want the policy to be reinstated.
Mr C would have known about the cancellation of the policy in February 2022, and so 
it was safe to assume he didnt want the cover.
It had acted reasonably when cancelling the policy in February 2022 when the 
payment wasnt received.
No distress had been caused to Mr C because he didnt want the cover.
While Hiscox acknowledged Mr C had been told an error had been made, hed also 
been told a complaint would be logged and that complaint review had concluded that 
no error had been made by Hiscox.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the detailed points made by Hiscox in response to my provisional decision, 
and also looked at again at all of the information available to me. I remain satisfied that the 
complaint should be upheld, and that Hiscox should pay £100 compensation to Mr C, for 
broadly the same reasons previously given. I will briefly respond to the points made by 
Hiscox.
I dont dispute that during the course of the complaint, Mr C did indicate he didnt want the 
policy, and that as a result it was cancelled and a refund of the premium given to Mr C. 
However, its also clear from the first call Mr C made to Hiscox, when he made the 
complaint, that he did want the policy cover to be reinstated.
I think its fair to say Mr C hasnt been consistent about his requirements in terms of cover 
during the course of the complaint. I remain satisfied though that he was told by Hiscox that 
the policy would be reinstated, in line with his stated wishes at the time, and that some form 
of compensation would likely be offered to put things right. Without any acknowledgement, 
retraction or explanation, no such offer was made. I believe Mr C had a reasonable 
expectation that Hiscox would make an offer to acknowledge its error, and by not making 
such an offer, Mr C would have been confused about Hiscoxs actions.
I also dont agree with the inference from Hiscox that the acknowledgement of an error, and 
likely offer of compensation should be disregarded because Mr C was told a complaint would 
be logged. Mr C had said he wanted to make a complaint, but theres nothing in the calls 
which would give any indication that he couldnt rely on what hed been told as being Hiscox settled position in regards to the cancellation of the policy  that position being that Hiscox 
had made an error.
Im also not persuaded that Hiscox actions in cancelling the policy when the payment was 
unsuccessful in February 2022 were reasonable. Hiscox says the email sent to Mr C said to 
contact them and they would arrange to sort matters, and also that the payment details had 
been changed a number of times in the months before the unsuccessful payment. 
Hiscox appears to have made assumptions that because Mr C didnt contact it in February 
2022, and based on what hes said since, he knew the policy had been cancelled and was 
happy with this and no longer wanted cover. Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to 
support such an assumption. 
In any case, I remain satisfied that after one unsuccessful payment it wasnt reasonable for 
Hiscox first action to be the cancellation of the policy. I still think its fair to say there should 
have been attempts to contact Mr C to check and try to resolve the payment issue before 
moving to cancel the policy. 
I cant speak to Mr Cs reasons for not contacting Hiscox in February 2022, when the policy 
was cancelled. What is clear, is that by July 2022 he contacted Hiscox, and said he needed 
the cover. Hiscox said an error had been made in cancelling the policy and it would be 
reinstated. Ive outlined the effect Im satisfied this would have had, but also the reasons why 
the compensation amount should be limited to £100 in total. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, Hiscox Underwriting 
Limited trading as Hiscox must pay Mr C £100 compensation. Hiscox must pay this amount 
within 28 days of us telling Hiscox that Mr C accepts our decision. If it doesnt, Hiscox must 
pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on this amount from that date to the date of final 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman