DRN-4354369
The complaint
Mr R complains that Wren Kitchens Limited incorrectly sold him a finance agreement. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr R was in discussion with Wren regarding a new kitchen. Before the 
design was complete, Mr R says Wren persuaded him to pay a deposit to secure a March 
start date. Wren introduced Mr R to a finance company to fund the balance. Mr R says he 
signed the finance agreement, but a representative of Wren signed the order form for the 
kitchen before confirming with him that the design was complete and agreed.
Mr R complains that the finance was deliberately mis-sold by Wren. He says he didnt place 
an order with Wren, and it refused to deal with his complaint until a functioning kitchen was 
installed. But whats been installed isnt what he wanted - it was ordered by a Wren 
employee forging his signature.
Wren looked into his complaint. It acknowledged that its employee had signed the sales 
order. But it said hed done so on behalf of Mr R who had been unable to get into the store. It 
said that the signed documents were sent to Mr R within a couple of hours on 
15 February 2022. The kitchen was delivered on 14 March 2022 and installation began 
shortly afterwards. Wren said that at no time did Mr R ask it to stop the removal or 
installation, and he allowed remedial work to go ahead. It made offers of compensation as its 
employee had signed the sales contract and for issues along the way with the installation. 
Mr R rejected all offers made by Wren. He said that he doesnt have a contract with Wren so 
is not obliged to make any payments. He acknowledges he has a finance agreement in 
principle with B. Mr R is seeking compensation from Wren for the problems stemming from 
the actions of the employee signing the order form. 
As Mr R was unhappy with what Wren said, he referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it and said he didnt think Wren had acted incorrectly in arranging 
the finance for Mr R. He acknowledged Mr R had concerns about the ordering and 
installation of the kitchen but said we couldnt look into those aspects of the complaint. Wren 
accepted what our investigator said. Mr R didnt, he restated that he didnt order the kitchen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules governing our service are set out in the handbook of the Financial Conduct 
Authority, specifically the Dispute Resolution section (DISP). DISP 2.3 says we can consider 
a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a business carrying out regulated activities. 
The regulated activity in Mr Rs complaint is credit broking. In simple terms, a credit broker 
helps a customer to get finance by introducing them to a lender.  
Mr Rs complaint has a number of strands around the sale of the finance (credit broking), the 
design and supply of the kitchen and the service provided by Wren. Many of the issues hes 
raised  such as the design of the kitchen not being accurate or what he wanted  are out of 
the scope of what I can consider as they arent regulated activities. The only aspect I can 
consider is Wrens role as a credit broker.
Mr R has acknowledged he went into Wrens store with the purchase of a new kitchen in 
mind. He spoke with a representative who produced a design, and an application was made 
for finance to cover the cost. The finance was agreed for the value of the kitchen set out in 
the design (less a deposit). At this stage, Mr R was aware hed not signed an order for the 
actual goods, but he went ahead and signed the finance documents.
Mr R has acknowledged that he signed the finance agreement  that isnt in dispute. But he 
says he didnt agree to the purchase of the kitchen, and it isnt disputed that he didnt sign 
the order form. For the reasons Ive explained however, I cant look into the sale of the 
kitchen  only the finance.
Its clear from Mr Rs testimony and his actions, that he had intended to buy a kitchen and 
wanted to use a finance agreement to pay for it. Wren, acting as credit broker, took his 
details and arranged finance for him. Mr R accepted the terms of that finance and signed the 
paperwork. So I think Wren has fulfilled its role as a credit broker carrying out the regulated 
activity of credit broking. Ive not seen anything which leads me to think Mr R was unaware 
of the finance or didnt want it.
Mr R has pointed out he signed the finance agreement prior to the order for the kitchen 
being signed in his name. While the finance was agreed for him at that stage, it wasnt drawn 
until the kitchen had been installed. If hed not wanted the finance (or the kitchen) he could 
have prevented the work from taking place by refusing delivery of the goods or refusing the 
fitters entry to his home. 
I appreciate Mr R is unhappy with how the sale of the kitchen was conducted so my decision 
will come as a disappointment to him. I simply have no power to look into the sale of the 
kitchen for the reasons Ive already explained. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman