DRN-3991457
The complaint
Mr C complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when he returned his vehicle.
 
What happened
Mr C entered into a hire agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in September 2018. The 
agreement was for four years, with the vehicle due to be returned in September 2022.
  
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 26 September 2022, and 
MBFS charged Mr C for excess mileage, four replacement run flat tyres, damage to the 
vehicle, a missed service and a missing V5 document. 
Mr C complained to MBFS in October 2022 about the charges. He said hed changed the 
tyres as the roads where he lived werent suitable for run flat tyres. Mr C told MBFS that he 
had the tyres in his garage, and hed booked the car in on 24 September 2022 to have a 
service completed and the tyres changed before the car was returned, but hed had to 
cancel this as he had Covid-19 (covid). 
MBFS sent Mr C their final response to his complaint in October 2022. They said the 
inspection report and photos supported the charges for damage to the wheel rims, left hand 
front door pad and front bumper. They said the V5 wasnt returned so this charge was fair, 
and they said they hadnt seen any evidence that Mr C had arranged for the tyres to be 
replaced so, the charge for these was also fair. 
MBFS removed the charge for damage to the right-hand front door pad and the left-hand 
rear lamp, saying the photos didnt support these charges. They also agreed to remove the 
charge for the missed service. MBFS partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and said the 
remaining charge for him to pay was £1,463.16. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said he 
had proof that hed booked the car in to have the tyres changed but had to cancel the 
appointment as he had covid. Mr C said he had the tyres in his garage, and MBFS were 
taking advantage of the situation. Mr C said the tyres should only cost about £100 each. 
Our investigator gave his view that the agreement required the car to be returned with tyres 
of the same specification, and it wasnt, so the charge MBFS had made for their replacement 
was fair. He also said the charge was reasonable. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the charge was a disgrace and reiterated that he was unable to 
change the tyres because he had covid. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C signed a hire agreement in September 2018. The terms of the agreement set out that 
the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes 
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the 
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr C was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition and in line with the return standards. 
MBFS have agreed to remove some of the charges, Mr C has paid some of the charges, and 
accepted others. The charge for the four replacement tyres remains in dispute, so Ive  
considered whether the charge for the replacement tyres applied by MBFS was fair and 
reasonable.  
Mr C has explained that he removed the run flat tyres from the car and stored them in his 
garage, as they werent suitable for the roads around where he lives. He said he had an 
appointment with a garage to service the car and replace these tyres prior to returning it, but 
he had to cancel this due to having covid. 
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards under wheels and tyres:
Your vehicle must conform to the original specification of the vehicle. It must have matching 
tyres (of a size and premium brand, approved by the manufacturer) on each axle, for 
example, Pirelli or Bridgestone.
Its not in dispute that the car was returned without run flat tyres. Im sorry to hear that Mr C 
was unwell, and of the impact this had on him. I understand the reason behind Mr C 
cancelling his appointment prior to returning the vehicle. Ive seen evidence that Mr C 
booked his vehicle in for a service, but its not clear that the tyres were due to be changed at 
the same appointment. Regardless, when the vehicle was returned, it didnt conform to the 
original specification as required under the agreement, and so Im satisfied that MBFS are 
able to charge for the replacement of the tyres. 
Mr C has said that the charge for the tyres was excessive. MBFS have charged £210.69 for 
each tyre. Mr C said they should be no more than £100 each. 
Ive thought about whether the charges are excessive. Ive taken into consideration that 
charges do differ between manufacturers. Ive also consulted quotation websites, and the 
average cost to replace a run flat tyre for the same type of car that Mr C has is around £180 
to £200. All things considered; Im not persuaded that the charges applied by MBFS for the 
replacement tyres are excessive in the circumstances. 
Mr C has said that he offered to send the tyres he has in his garage to MBFS. 
Its often the case that cars are sold at auction or re-leased quickly after collection, so I dont 
think its unreasonable for MBFS to have applied the charge to replace the tyres without 
providing another opportunity for Mr C to supply them.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman