DRN-3813824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about their home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) regarding an arrangement for cover they made in May 2021. 
Mr and Mrs E are really unhappy with the insurance intermediary they were dealing with, 
which brands its own policies, which RSA underwrites. But because RSA underwrites those 
policies, that insurer acted on behalf of RSA. So Ill only refer to RSA by name.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E were looking to arrange contents cover for their home. And they also wanted 
to have cover for their personal possessions outside of the home. They spoke to RSAs 
representative. They discussed that some earrings might present a problem for cover as 
theyd previously been lost and claimed for. The representative said they did cause a 
problem, which meant there wouldnt be any personal possessions cover. But Mr and Mrs E 
believed the focus was still on the earrings.
Further correspondence then occurred. But on 24 June 2021, the evening before the cover 
was to commence, RSA told Mr and Mrs E that there was no personal possessions cover 
available for any items (outside of the home). RSA then, following commencement of the 
policy, extended the cooling off period for Mr and Mrs E to allow them to change their mind if 
they wished to. RSA also accepted it could have been clearer with them earlier, and sent 
£50 compensation. Mr and Mrs E were disappointed. They felt RSA had misled them and, as 
a result, it should be covering their personal possessions away from the home. They 
complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that RSA could have been clearer with Mr and Mrs E. But she felt its 
action before the cover commenced, and its offers of resolution were sufficient to overcome 
and make up for that failure. So she didnt recommend that it do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs E asked that an amicable resolution be reached, such that they could have 
some cover for some possessions away from the home. Our Investigator spoke to RSA in 
this respect, but it said this wasnt possible. Mr and Mrs E remained dissatisfied, so their 
complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Im not minded to make RSA do anything more either. I do think RSA 
failed Mr and Mrs E during the communication it had with them before 24 June 2021. Ive 
heard the relevant call recording and note that whilst Mr and Mrs E had been speaking 
specifically about cover for a certain pair of earrings, RSAs representative replied about 
cover for all personal possession items. And, in my view, in quite a technical way. Such that, 
also in my view, it wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs E that they would have no cover for 
possessions outside of the home at all. And I think that is reflected by the correspondence 
that followed, until the matter was finally clarified on 24 June 2021, before the policy was due 
to begin the next day.
But the remedy for that failure, in this instance, is not to make RSA offer that cover. It was 
always up to RSA to decide what cover to offer Mr and Mrs E, and it wasnt happy to give 
them cover for items outside of the home. The fact that it did not communicate this very well 
does not mean it must act against its policy decision by offering cover. Rather it has to put 
Mr and Mrs E back in the position, as closely as possible, to that which they would have 
been in had it been clear with them. 
Had RSA been clear with Mr and Mrs E at the outset theyd still have been unhappy about 
not being afforded this cover. But I dont think their overtures in that respect would have 
caused RSA to change its mind. That is because they did not meet its criteria for cover and 
RSA isnt likely to ignore that and offer cover anyway. Which would have meant that 
Mr and Mrs E would have had to decide whether to keep the cover, as offered, with RSA, or 
look elsewhere. Arguably they had little time to do that on the evening before cover 
commenced. But RSA extended the cooling off period available to them, if they wanted to 
take their cover elsewhere. I think that was a fair response from RSA, which, as closely as 
reasonably possible, put them back into the position they would always have been in.
RSA also sent £50 compensation. This was to make up for the upset caused by its failure. 
As a result of RSAs failure Mr and Mrs E had a loss of expectation  because they expected 
to have cover with RSA which wasnt then available for them. I understand they feel let down 
by RSA because of this, and more so given theyve been loyal and happy customers of the 
intermediary insurer representing RSA for decades. I also understand why, in that light, 
theyd hoped RSA would reach an amicable agreement with them for cover. But that isnt 
something I could reasonably make it provide. In respect of their loss of expectation, to make 
up for RSAs failure here, I think £50 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
So, whilst I think RSA did fail Mr and Mr E in this instance, I think it has acted fairly and 
reasonably to make up for that. As such, I wont be requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman