The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim under 
their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B hold a private medical insurance policy provided by AXA PPP. The policy was 
taken out in June 2018. 
In May 2019, Mrs B sent a medical information form to AXA requesting authorisation for 
a referral to a colorectal consultant. AXA initially mis-filed the form and only realised its 
mistake when Mrs B contacted it for an update in June 2019.
AXA then asked Mrs B and her GP for further information about her medical history before 
declining the claim in August 2019.
Mrs B complained to AXA, who said it didnt think the claim was covered because Mrs Bs 
medical condition pre-existed the start date of her policy. However, AXA acknowledged it 
had made an error when Mrs Bs medical information form was first received, so it paid her 
£100 compensation. 
As Mrs B remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened but said she wouldnt be asking AXA to do anything more. 
Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy was taken out on moratorium terms, which started in June 2018. Their 
membership guide clearly explains that treatment for pre-existing medical conditions is 
excluded under the policy for at least the first two years from the date the member joins. 
The terms and conditions of the policy go on to outline what this means in more detail. They 
say: 
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for 
treatment of medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
youve been a member for two years in a row, and
DRN-1812006youve had a period of two years in a row, since you joined, that have been 
trouble-free from that condition.
Ive considered all the medical evidence available to me to decide whether I think AXA was 
entitled to rely on the terms of the moratorium to turn down cover for Mrs Bs claim. 
The referral letter from Mrs Bs consultant gynaecologist to a colorectal surgeon dated 3 May 
2019 asks for an assessment on Mrs B, as she had a long-standing history of right iliac 
fossa pain and constipation. Mrs Bs GP has confirmed Mrs B was seen with abdominal pain 
on various dates, including on 15 June 2018 which was just before the insurance policy 
started. 
So, the medical evidence shows Mrs B received medical advice for abdominal pain in the 
five years before the policy started. This means any claims related to this issue arent 
covered until Mrs B has been a policyholder for two years in a row and has been trouble-free 
from these issues for the same period. Mrs Bs medical records show consultants visits for 
symptoms including abdominal pain in the early part of 2019, so I dont think she had been 
trouble-free for two years, and she also hadnt been a policyholder for two years at the time 
of making the claim. 
This means I dont think Mrs Bs claim for the referral to a colorectal consultant is covered 
under the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Turning to how AXA handled the claim, its clear an error was made when Mrs Bs form was 
first received in May 2019. If AXA had handled things as it should have, I think it could have 
given Mrs B an answer about whether her claim was covered sooner than it did. 
I have no doubt AXAs delays will have caused Mrs B distress at an already worrying time, 
and I think its appropriate that AXA should pay compensation for this.
However, Im satisfied that once AXA realised its mistake, it progressed the claim as quickly 
as it could thereafter. While I can understand AXAs requests for further information were 
upsetting for Mrs B, an insurer is entitled to request reasonable information it needs in order 
to decide if a claim is covered under an insurance policy, and this includes requesting 
relevant medical information. I can also see from AXAs claims notes that it told Mrs B 
throughout the claims process that there was no guarantee this claim would be covered.
Overall, I think AXAs payment of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable for the impact of 
its mistake on Mrs B. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I won't be asking AXA to do anything further. 
I understand Mrs B believes she has been billed for a consultation in error and is also 
unhappy with what happened during one of the consultations. These are issues which shed 
need to raise directly with the medical professionals involved. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr and Mrs B's complaint. 
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has already made an offer to pay Mrs B £100 compensation 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited should pay Mrs B £100, if the original 
cheque hasnt already been cashed. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman