DRN-1862880
The complaint
Mr B complained about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Royal Bank Insurance 
(UKI) handled a claim made on his home insurance following an escape of water in his 
property.
Reference to UKI includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr Bs property suffered from an escape of water and he claimed for the 
damage from UKI. It accepted the claim and appointed agents to assess the damage, clean 
the property and repair or replace the damage caused. Progress was slow and Mr B made a 
number of complaints about the delays and the quality of workmanship. He worked away 
from the property for periods of time and despite being told the work would be completed 
upon his return at the beginning of October 2019, the work hadnt been finished. Mr B was 
also unhappy with the quality of the work that had been done and the condition UKIs agents 
had left the property in. UKI assessed the work done and agreed it hadnt been done to an 
acceptable standard. The same agents were appointed to rectify the poor workmanship. 
That too took longer than expected and when Mr B returned to his property in early 
December 2019, he was still unhappy with some of what had been done. UKI agreed to pay 
for Mr B to ask a third party to resolve the remaining issues and to pay for a few damaged 
items to be replaced.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, UKI recognised the service it had provided had not been up 
to standard. It offered to pay Mr B £400 compensation for the poor service and agreed to 
pay for a third party to have some of the works re-done. Mr B didnt think this amount was 
enough for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs actions and he 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said he could understand Mr Bs upset and frustration at what had 
happened but thought UKI had tried to resolve the claim as smoothly as possible after it had 
become aware of the issues. He thought £400 compensation was fair and reasonable, 
particularly as UKI had told us it had also paid Mr B a total of £550 in compensation 
throughout the course of the claim for the delays and poor service provided.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and so the matter has been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at UKIs handling of Mr Bs insurance claim to see if hes been treated 
fairly. Unfortunately for policyholders this sort of escape of water claim can take a long time 
to resolve because of the time needed to dry the affected areas, assess the damage and 
carry out repairs. When bathroom units have to be removed, flooring taken up and walls 
re-painted, theres always likely to be a lot of disruption. Notwithstanding this, I can 
understand why Mr B is upset that the process of repairing his property has taken so much 
longer than it needed to. 
After the initial assessment of the damage, UKI said the property had been passed as being 
dry in mid July 2019. It recognised this process had taken longer than expected and paid 
Mr B £100 for the inconvenience caused. It then took another two months for work to begin 
on the property. UKI paid Mr B a further £200 at this time to recognise the impact of this 
delay. UKI said the work would be completed by the beginning of October but when Mr B 
returned from working away from the property, it was clear the work hadnt been finished and 
much of what had been done, was to a poor quality standard. UKI paid Mr B a further £200 
at this point because the work hadnt been completed on schedule. It also accepted the work 
had been completed to a poor standard and arranged for its agents to revisit and rectify the 
poor workmanship.
There was then a delay in getting the work re-started. When work began again in early 
November UKI said it would be completed in about three weeks. In the event, it took about 
two weeks longer than that and when Mr B returned to the property in early December 2019 
he was again unhappy with the quality of what had been done. UKI agreed the floor its 
agents had fitted did not meet the appearance of the original flooring so needed replacing. A 
third party needed to come and fix the shower, rubbish needed to be cleared from the 
property and a few items needed replacing. 
I think Mr B was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of 
this nature. However, bearing in mind the extent to which UKI made the whole experience 
worse than it needed to be over the course of the repairs, I think it was right UKI took action 
to recognise the impact it had. That impact was lessened by the fact Mr B worked away from 
the property for lengthy periods while the work was being done. And although Mr B is correct 
in saying UKI saved costs by not having to pay for alternative accommodation that might 
otherwise have been necessary, I dont think it would be fair to expect UKI to pay him for that 
saved expense.
But its clear the experience has had a big impact on Mr B. He said the delay in repairing his 
property has caused him a great deal of inconvenience and distress. He had to take time off 
work to inspect the quality of work, hed returned home on holiday to find the flat was 
uninhabitable and he said 90% of the work had to be re-done. He said its taken up a great 
deal of his time and its also exacerbated his psoriasis.  
UKI has accepted the service it provided was poor. It acknowledged its agents hadnt 
respected his property, had failed to take debris away, had contacted him unnecessarily and 
hadnt met the timescales theyd agreed. It also agreed the workmanship was of poor quality 
which meant that work needed to be re-done and Mr B had to arrange for third parties to 
repair some of the affected items. 
UKI has outlined how much it has paid Mr B over the course of the repairs. It paid him £500 
in three payments over the course of the works, as Ive set out above. It also paid him £50 in 
January 2020 because it had asked him to pay the excess on his claim even though hed 
already paid it. That totals £550 by way of compensating him for the trouble and upset it has 
caused. This was on top of payments for travel costs, alternative accommodation, and 
disturbance allowance that were paid throughout the claim. 
Overall, UKI didnt handle Mr Bs claim well and must take responsibility for the poor quality 
of the workmanship and for the delays in repairing the property. However, having carefully 
considered all the available information in this case, I think UKI have acted fairly and 
reasonably in the action its taken to put matters right. Its acknowledged the poor service provided, its taken action to get things back on track and its paid a total of £950 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused. In light of the particular 
circumstances of this complaint I think the £400 UKI has given Mr B, in addition to the £550 
it had already given him, is fair and reasonable and provides suitable redress for the trouble 
and upset its caused. 
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited trading as Royal Bank Insurance has already paid Mr B a total of 
£400 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I dont 
think it needs to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman