DRN-3072055
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled his 
home insurance claim.
My references to RSA include their agents. 
What happened
Mr P holds home emergency cover with RSA. On 1 February 2021, he made a claim on his 
policy as his boiler unfortunately broke down. 
Although RSA arranged for an engineer to attend the following day, they couldnt solve the 
problem as they needed additional parts. Mr Ps boiler was eventually fixed three weeks 
later, following his consent to pay £233.25 towards the repair costs. Mr P was asked to pay 
this amount as the total cost of the works exceeded the £500 policy limit. 
Mr P didnt have access to heating or hot water while he was waiting for his boiler to be 
repaired. So, RSA arranged for him to spend one night in a hotel and refunded £39.99 for 
the cost of a heater. Mr P also spent some nights at his friends house.
After the work was completed, Mr P complained to RSA. He said the repair should have 
been completed much faster than it was, he was charged for parts RSA didnt use and parts 
that were too expensive.
RSA agreed they'd taken too long to complete the repair and said their customer service had 
sometimes fallen below their usual standards. So, they paid Mr P £200 compensation to 
reflect these errors. They didnt refund any of the money they charged Mr P for the parts or 
labour as they said he consented to this work before they started it. They also explained that 
they only use genuine parts sourced from their trusted suppliers. So, they didnt agree they 
should reasonably have used cheaper parts.
Mr P then complained to our service. In summary he said RSA should provide a breakdown 
of the parts they replaced and refund him the cost of the ones they didnt use. To support his 
point of view, he provided photographs of uninstalled parts, that were left on his property. He 
also highlighted the upset this matter had caused him and said the labour costs were unfair.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint and asked RSA to provide their 
comments about the photographs. In response, they said Mr P specifically requested that all 
parts they attempted to use or replace, remained on his property. They also said the 
photographs showed parts that were old and replaced, new and unsuitable or new and 
faulty. In addition, as Mr Ps boiler was more than ten years old and no longer manufactured, 
the engineer brought several parts with them to make sure they could complete a 
satisfactory repair. However, Mr P was only charged for the parts they successfully installed.
Our investigator thought RSAs explanation was reasonable and therefore concluded it 
wasnt likely Mr P had been charged for uninstalled parts. She also noted that while the total 
cost of the parts was £492.99, Mr P was only charged £478.85. So, hed received a slight 
discount in terms of the amount that exceeded the policy limit.
She also said £200 was a fair amount of compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays and poor customer service. Finally, she explained that 
based on the breakdown RSA had provided, theyd acted fairly by asking Mr P to pay 
£233.25 towards the repair costs. She was also satisfied that RSA had made it reasonably 
clear he would need to pay for all works that exceeded the policy limit. So, overall, she didnt 
think RSA should do anything more to resolve the complaint.
RSA accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr P didnt. He said RSA werent telling the 
truth as while some of the parts in the photographs were old, there were some new parts 
that werent installed but still charged for. He also said hed shown the engineer the manual 
for his boiler, so they should have been able to source the correct parts instead of guessing. 
He also provided examples of cheaper parts that he thinks RSA could reasonably have used 
to complete the repair.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied RSA have already given Mr P a reasonable resolution to his 
complaint for the following reasons:
I appreciate that being without power and heating for three weeks would have been 
uncomfortable, upsetting and frustrating for Mr P. As RSA paid for him to stay in a 
hotel for one night and refunded the cost of a heater, Im satisfied they took 
reasonable steps to try and reduce his discomfort. I was also glad to hear Mr P was 
able to stay with friends for a few nights despite the inconvenience.
Im satisfied RSA should reasonably have been able to fix Mr Ps boiler much sooner 
than they did. The communication between RSA and Mr P could also have been 
improved. RSA have already acknowledged these errors and paid Mr P £200 
compensation to reflect them. Based on the timescales involved and the overall 
impact, Im satisfied this was a fair way of resolving this part of the complaint. So, I 
dont think RSA should do anything more in relation to it.
Turning to the works that were completed. I appreciate Mr P feels our service should 
do more to challenge RSA as it's essentially their word against his. However, Im 
unable to cross-examine the parties in the way hes suggested. Where the evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I reach my 
decision on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, what I consider is more likely to 
have happened based on the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
I've reviewed the photographs Mr P has provided to show RSA charged him for parts 
they didnt install in his boiler. Ive also considered RSAs response. Having done so, 
I find RSAs explanation to be reasonable given the age of the boiler and the fact its 
no longer manufactured. This is despite the fact Mr P showed the engineer the 
manual. I also note that the breakdown of works doesnt suggest Mr P was charged 
for more than one of each type of part. Mr P also hasnt provided any additional 
evidence, such as an independent engineers report to discredit RSAs explanation. So, on balance, I dont think its likely Mr P was charged for parts that werent 
successfully installed.
Before the repair works were completed, RSA made Mr P aware, he would need to 
pay for the parts and labour costs that exceeded the £500 policy limit. They also 
gave him the option of appointing his own contractor to complete the repair instead of 
accepting their quote. So, I dont think they've acted unreasonably by later declining 
to refund the £233.25 Mr P agreed to pay.  Im also satisfied RSA have provided      
Mr P with enough information to see how this amount was calculated. This includes 
the parts purchased and the labour costs involved. Mr P has said charging three 
hours of labour for the repair was excessive, but based on the number of completed 
visits, and the work that was undertaken, I dont think there is enough evidence to 
support this conclusion. 
Finally, I know Mr P feels the parts RSA sourced were too expensive. Hes also 
provided examples of cheaper alternatives. However, just because cheaper parts 
were available, this doesnt mean RSA did anything wrong. As Ive already explained, 
Mr P was given the option of completing the works elsewhere and he didnt have to 
accept RSAs quote. Where RSA source their parts from is also a commercial 
decision which I wont interfere with here. Other than to say, I dont think its 
unreasonable they purchased genuine parts from their trusted suppliers to help 
ensure a high quality repair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited have 
already provided Mr P with a reasonable resolution to his complaint. So, I dont require them 
to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman