DRN-2343926
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has applied unfair and disproportionate 
charges to his business account and is dissatisfied with the limited facilities available to him.
What happened
Mr B has had a business account with NatWest since 2012. He has been charged for 
transactions and for example when his account has been overdrawn without agreement or 
items returned unpaid. NatWest has told him that he cannot have an overdraft on this 
account or have a named business manager. And nor was he able to change this account to 
one for his limited company. He says that the charges are unfair and illegal. And he wants 
them refunded given the impact on him.
NatWest issued a response to his complaint saying that the charges have been applied in 
line with its tariff. Following a ruling of the Supreme Court in 2009 bank charges cannot be 
challenged on the basis that they are unfair or a penalty. As a gesture of goodwill, it 
refunded £100 of unpaid item charges and waived £48 of charges that were pending. And it 
provided Mr B with the number for its financial difficulties team. It mentioned that Mr B could 
have alerts sent to him by text or email about any potential unauthorised overdraft on his 
account.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr B has a foundation 
account, and this is not eligible for an overdraft facility. The account had been overdrawn 
when funds were withdrawn at a cash machine prior to other payments being applied. 
NatWest sent monthly notifications of charges in advance and had shown that Mr B had 
been registered for text alerts since 2016. His account had never entered collections and it 
was not apparent that Mr B was in financial difficulty. There was no requirement for NatWest 
to refund charges, but it had done so as a gesture of goodwill and provided details of how to 
get support for financial difficulties. It was a matter for NatWest to determine what account to 
offer and what features would be available, and then for Mr B to decide if this was 
appropriate for his business. She appreciated that changing an account would be time 
consuming but did not think NatWest would be responsible for that. The Judgment of the 
Supreme Court remained a significant and applicable one and Mr B had not been treated 
any differently to the way other business customers would be.
Mr B did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said that 
he could then speak to his legal team if necessary about the next stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Im going to disappoint Mr B when I say that I am going to agree with what our 
investigator has said about the complaint and for essentially the same reasons.
NatWest has made a commercial decision about the service and facilities available with a 
foundation account. And in the terms and conditions no arranged overdraft is possible. 
Those terms and conditions and its tariff also set out the charges that will be applied to the 
account. Following the Judgment referred to I dont have a basis to think that these charges 
are illegal or that they can be challenged as too high or unfair.
Mr B has asked why only £148 of charges have been refunded or waived and had calculated 
that by November 2019 over £3,900 had already been applied. He thought a higher 
proportion would be a meaningful response if refunded. But Im afraid as no error had been 
made with these charges this refund was a gesture of goodwill from NatWest covering some 
charges that had been incurred relating to unpaid charges. I dont have a reasonable basis 
to require NatWest to do more.
I appreciate that other similar charges have been applied but that the account balance has 
always been brought back into credit. So, I dont think it was apparent that his business was 
in financial difficulties until Mr B told NatWest about this. Its now offered him contact with a 
team to provide support for that.
I think Mr B has come to realise that the account is not appropriate to all his business needs 
- especially as he has established a limited company. Hed like to have operated that 
company through this account and hes taken stock of the charges that have been and are 
now being applied and what services are available. But in conclusion I think that NatWest 
has made clear what it will offer and charge and thats something that is down to its 
legitimate discretion. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman