DRN-3186231
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about her bank, Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), regarding their wrongly 
disclosing her new address to her abusive husband. Mrs Y also complains about delays in 
BoS closing a joint account that she and her husband had with BoS, despite both consenting 
to the closure.
In making her complaint, Mrs Y was supported by a representative. References to Mrs Y 
include her representative.
What happened
Mrs Y was in an abusive relationship with her husband, and in October 2019 she left him 
and moved to a new address because of the abuse shed suffered. Mrs Y had a joint 
account with her husband and contacted BoS to open a sole account in her name and to tell 
them of her new address. She explained her circumstances and asked BoS not to disclose 
the new address to her husband. In December 2019 Mrs Y contacted BoS to tell them that 
her new address had become known to her husband and hed been to her new address and 
tried to gain access. She feared for her safety and that of her daughter because of his 
threatening behaviour and he was arrested by the police. Mrs Y had to move into temporary 
accommodation before moving to a new address.
BoS investigated and found that when setting up Mrs Ys sole account, the way their 
systems operated meant theyd also updated her address for the joint account (as she was 
the first named party on the account). As her husband had online access to the joint 
account, he would have seen Mrs Ys new address and been able to go there. BoS then 
changed the joint account details so that Mrs Ys husband was the first named party on the 
account, meaning he wouldnt be able to see details of any new address for Mrs Y.
BoS offered to close the joint account, but Mrs Y was initially reluctant because of the 
possible impact on her husband. Mrs Y then contacted BoS to say that she did want to close 
the account. There was a small balance of £3.49 in the account at the time but a few days 
later her husband deposited £400 into the account. BoS advised that to close the account 
both parties would have to provide their consent and to visit a branch to do so. But given the 
circumstances between Mrs Y and her husband, BoS marked the account as in dispute, 
meaning it was frozen and no transactions could take place until the dispute was resolved.
Mrs Y visited a branch to give her consent. BoS wrote to her husband asking him to visit a 
branch to give his consent, but he said hed already done so (although BoS had no record of 
such a visit). Mrs Ys husband later left the UK. It was subsequently confirmed by a solicitor 
acting for Mrs Y that the £400 deposited was for child support. BoS acknowledged there had 
been an error as Mrs Ys husband had previously given his consent to the closure. BoS paid 
Mrs Y £250 for the inconvenience caused by not closing the account earlier.
Unhappy at how theyd given her husband her new address, Mrs Y complained to BoS, who 
upheld her complaint. In their final response they accepted their error led to Mrs Ys husband 
learning of her new address and putting the safety of those living there in danger by visiting.  
Acknowledging their error, BoS paid Mrs Y £410 for the cost of temporary accommodation, 
additional food costs and for bus and taxi fares. In recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience their error caused Mrs Y, BoS offered her £2,000 in compensation.
Mrs Y then complained to this service about BoS disclosing her new address to her husband 
when shed asked them not to. She was also unhappy that the joint account wasnt closed 
when requested, despite both her and her husband giving their consent.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She noted BoS accepted they made an error when 
updating Mrs Ys new address, meaning it became known to her husband. Since Mrs Y 
brought her complaint to this service, BoS increased its offer of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience from £2,000 to £3,000. The investigator thought the increased offer was 
fair and reasonable. On the delay in closing the joint account, the investigator thought BoS 
should have progressed the closure more quickly than they did, which in turn led to further 
distress and inconvenience to Mrs Y. Particularly as Mrs Y didnt have access to the £400 
deposited by her husband for some ten months. The investigator thought BoS hadnt taken 
enough steps to locate the consent from Mrs Ys husband to close the account. But the 
investigator noted BoS had increased their offer of compensation for the delay from £250 to 
£500, a sum she thought better reflected the impact of the delay on Mrs Y.
Mrs Y disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She didnt think BoSs offer was sufficient for the distress and inconvenience 
shed suffered from her husband finding out her new address and the delay in closing the 
joint account. In support of her view, Mrs Y provided information about the impact of the visit 
to her new address by her husband on other people in the property at the time, as well as 
the impact on her daughter. She also provided the views of her GP on the impact on her.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered very carefully what Mrs Y has told us about her circumstances and the 
nature of the domestic abuse she suffered from her husband. I know it would have taken 
courage for her to decide start afresh. Having done so, I appreciate how afraid she would 
have been for her safety, as well as for her daughter, when her husband went to her new 
address. It would clearly have caused her and her daughter significant distress. This has 
been at the forefront of my mind when reaching this decision and I hope what Ive said 
makes clear how Ive reached this decision.
The two issues in Mrs Ys complaint are, firstly, the error by BoS that made her new address 
known to her husband. And, secondly, the delay in closing the joint account despite both her 
and her husband agreeing to the closure.
On the first issue, theres no dispute that it was BoSs error that led to Mrs Ys address 
becoming known to her husband, enabling him to then visit the address and seek to gain 
entry. From both what Mrs Y and the person at the property at the time of the visit have said, 
it was clearly a very frightening incident for them. To the extent that Mrs Y, fearing for her 
safety and that of her daughter, had to move into temporary accommodation before finding a 
new address. In the circumstances, I think it was right for BoS to pay Mrs Y for the costs of 
the temporary accommodation and the associated costs of food and travel.
So the issue for me to consider is whats fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience suffered by Mrs Y. BoS initially offered £2,000 but this was increased to 
£3,000 during the course of the investigation by this service into Mrs Ys complaint. In thinking about whether this is a fair and reasonable figure, Ive considered very carefully 
what Mrs Y has said. That includes what Mrs Y told us when initially bringing her complaint. 
It also includes the additional information shes provided when disagreeing with our 
investigators view. Id want to reassure Mrs Y that Ive considered the latter information very 
carefully and I know it would have been extremely difficult for her to share this information, 
given the nature of the abuse that it describes.
In deciding whats fair compensation in the circumstances, I need to think about the impact 
of BoSs mistakes on Mrs Y, taking account of the specific circumstances of her case. 
Thinking about the circumstances of Mrs Y, I agree that she suffered very significant distress 
and inconvenience from what happened, particularly the threatening behaviour of her 
husband when he went to her new address, at a time when she was seeking to make a fresh 
start away from the abusive relationship with him. Ive considered what shes said about the 
nature of the abuse that she and her daughter experienced.
 
While BoS is responsible for what happened when Mrs Ys husband found the new address, 
though not for what happened before she left the relationship, in my view that background 
and context is very important for understanding the impact what happened had on Mrs Y and 
her daughter  and the impact on Mrs Y of her daughters subsequent distress.
 
Thankfully there were no physical injuries and her husband was prevented from gaining 
access to the property before he was arrested shortly afterwards. But nonetheless, and 
given the background in the case, Im satisfied that the events would have been extremely 
traumatic and distressing at the time. They also resulted in Mrs Y and her daughter having to 
flee what had been until then a safe address and move into emergency temporary 
accommodation on their own, losing the immediate support of the friends who they had been 
staying with. This relocation also caused difficulties because of the distance of the new 
location from facilities they needed. Taking account of all these points and all the 
circumstances of the case, I think Mrs Y suffered very significant distress and inconvenience 
which merits a very substantial award. Ive thought about this very carefully, and Im satisfied 
that BoSs increased offer of £3,000 is fair and reasonable.
The second issue is the delay in closing Mrs Ys joint account that she held with her 
husband. Again, BoS accept that this took longer than it should have done, and they should 
have been aware sooner that both Mrs Y and her husband had agreed to the closure. While 
I think it was reasonable to place the account as being in dispute (thereby protecting funds in 
the account that were properly Mrs Ys) it did mean that she was unable to access those 
funds for a period of some ten months. 
 
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mrs Y, both in itself as well as in the context of BoS 
mistakenly making her new address known to her husband, I think its fair for BoS to offer 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that the delay caused Mrs Y. Ive noted 
that, as with the compensation for the error in making Mrs Ys address known to her 
husband, BoS have increased their offer (from £250 to £500) during the course of the 
investigation of Mrs Ys complaint to this service. Ive also noted that the increased offer is 
now greater than the sum deposited into the account which Mrs Y was unable to access for 
that period (£400). Thinking about the impact on Mrs Y from the delay, then Ive concluded 
that the revised offer of £500 from BoS is reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs Ys complaint. I require 
Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mrs Y compensation for distress and compensation of:
£3,000 for their error in making known Mrs Ys new address to her husband.£500 for delays in closing the joint account held by Mrs Y and her husband.
This is in addition to the compensation it has already paid her for the expenses she incurred 
in moving address following the disclosure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman