DRN-3778777
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the interest Oodle Financial Services Limited are charging on a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
On 11 February 2022, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle. The agreement was for £9,220 over 60 months; with monthly 
repayments of £201.38. Oodle collected the payments on the 1st of each month.
However, Mr A didnt think Oodle had calculated the interest on the agreement correctly. 
And he said that he should be paying £179.15 a month, with payments being collected on 
the 11th of each month.
Mr A complained to Oodle, but they didnt agree the interest had been calculated incorrectly. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Oodles response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said there was no singular method for calculating and applying interest, and 
this would vary by product type. She thought that Oodle had made it clear in the agreement 
what the interest being charged was, and Mr A had been charged in line with the agreement. 
She also said that Oodles method for calculating interest was consistent with other similar 
hire purchase agreements  interest is calculated at the beginning of the agreement as a 
fixed sum and then divided into equal payments, and only differs if the agreement is settled 
early. So, she didnt think Oodle had done anything wrong.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He believes that the interest charged should take into 
consideration that the balance on his account reduces monthly, so Oodles calculations are 
mathematically incorrect. And hes provided the formula he says is normally used in 
finance agreements, a breakdown of what he thought Oodle shouldve charged him based 
on this formula, and how this affects the payment he shouldve made.
Mr A also thought that Oodle were in breach of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) by 
calculating the interest as they did.
Because Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr A signed on 9 February 2022. Ive seen that this 
confirmed the total amount of interest being charged on the agreement (£2,862.80); the 
interest rate (6.21% fixed, 11.8% APR); and the payments due (£201.38). The agreement 
and Pre-Contract Credit Information document Oodle supplied Mr A also confirmed:
The interest rate is fixed for the duration of the agreement and interest calculated 
on, and applied to the amount of the credit on the date of the agreement in 
respect of the duration of the agreement.
Based on the information provided, Im satisfied the interest was what is sometimes referred 
to as a front-loaded calculation i.e. the interest was calculated at the outset of the 
agreement, based on the amount borrowed, and divided over the number of the agreed 
scheduled monthly payments. 
In this instance, Mr A borrowed £9,220 at a fixed annual interest rate of 6.21%. Which 
calculates to £575.56 a year or £2,862.80 over the full 60-month term, and is equivalent to 
£47.71 a month. So, if the £9,220 borrowed by Mr A was to be split into 60 equal payments, 
this would be £153.67. Add to this the £47.71 fixed interest, and this gives a payment of 
£201.38  the amount Mr A was charged each month.
While I appreciate this is not the method of calculating interest that Mr A wouldve preferred, 
by confirming the interest would be applied to the agreement on the day it was taken out, in 
respect of the 60-month duration of the agreement; it is the method that Oodle said they 
would use. As such, I cant say that Oodle have calculated either the interest or the payment 
incorrectly.
It's not our role to tell financial businesses what policies and procedures they must have in 
place. And this includes the method(s) they use for calculating interest on finance 
agreements. This is the role of their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And 
Oodles method(s) for calculating and charging interest wouldve been agreed with the FCA. 
As such, I dont intend to comment any further on the method(s) Oodle uses.
Turning now to the CCA, Mr A believes Oodle are in breach of this, specifically sections 77A 
and 77B. Theres nothing in the CCA that specifies the calculation a financial business must 
use when calculating interest. So, I cant say that Oodle have failed to follow any 
requirements of the CCA in relation to interest charged.
Whats more, sections 77A and 77B relate to the requirement to provide statements, both 
annually and upon request. And I havent seen anything to show me that Oodle have failed 
to provide Mr A with statements. Given this, I cant agree that Oodle havent done what they 
shouldve done.
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I wont be asking 
Oodle to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Oodle Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman