DRN-3057123
The complaint
Mr L complains about the transfer of the defined-benefits he held in the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he was advised to transfer by Fiscale 
Financial Services Limited (Fiscale) and another financial business (which Ill call Firm J). 
He believes that the advice provided was flawed which has resulted in him suffering a 
significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a private pension arrangement.
Mr L was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Fiscale 
by a colleague. Mr L spoke with Fiscale in February 2017 but it referred him to Firm J, as 
Fiscale didnt have the necessary permissions to advise him on the transfer of defined-
benefit pension schemes.
Firm J ultimately advised Mr L to transfer out of the BSPS in March 2017. Mr L was referred 
back to Fiscale in May 2017 following the completion of the transfer to a personal pension. 
Fiscale then advised Mr L to invest his funds in line with his balanced attitude to risk.
In 2020 Mr L complained about the advice to Fiscale and Firm J. However, Firm J went into 
liquidation and so Mr Ls complaint about this business was referred to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Fiscale told Mr L it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it had simply 
provided advice as to how his funds should be invested once the transfer had completed. 
Fiscale said Mr L was aware that it could not provide him with any pension transfer advice, 
which is why he was referred to Firm J.
Mr Ls representative referred his complaint to our service, saying Fiscale should be held 
liable for the advice as it was a joint venture between the two businesses. The 
representative said Mr L had been verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale and that the 
transfer of his preserved benefits could not have taken place without Fiscale introducing 
Mr L to Firm J.
Our investigator didnt agree. She didnt think Fiscales actions had gone beyond that of 
introducing Mr L to Firm J, and she wasnt persuaded that Fiscale had given Mr L any advice 
to transfer or that Mr L had relied on such advice.
As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons.
My understanding of the representatives position is that Fiscale should be held liable 
because it verbally advised Mr L to transfer his pension and Mr L relied upon that advice. It 
also argues there was a joint venture between Fiscale and Firm J. And in addition, it says 
Fiscale should be held liable because it did not treat Mr L fairly or have regard to his best 
interests. Ill address each point in turn.
Did Fiscale advise Mr L to transfer?
Fiscale did not have permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit 
occupational pension schemes. For this reason, it had an arrangement in place with Firm J, 
where Firm J would provide advice on the transfer of the occupational scheme and the client 
would be referred back to Firm J for ongoing advice if the transfer went ahead.
Having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Fiscale advised Mr L to 
transfer his BSPS benefits.
The evidence shows that Fiscale met with Mr L in February 2017. The adviser sent Mr L an 
email on 7 February 2017 to confirm what had been discussed. The email said that as had 
been explained in the meeting, Fiscale didnt have the necessary permissions to advise on 
pension transfers. It said that Fiscale could refer Mr L to a firm that did have the required 
permissions, and if that firm determined that a transfer was in Mr Ls best interests, they 
would refer Mr L back to Fiscale to provide ongoing servicing and advice. The email 
reiterated that Fiscale would not be providing advice on the pension transfer and that it 
would only take regulatory responsibility for Mr Ls pension for ongoing advice. The email 
asked Mr L to respond to confirm his understanding of this and to confirm he was happy to 
be referred to another firm for pension transfer advice. Mr L responded by email the same 
day saying he understood and asked Fiscale to make the referral so he could proceed with 
the transfer.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Fiscale did anything that could be considered as 
amounting to advice before Mr L transferred his pension. Fiscale met with Mr L once and 
following this meeting the email it sent to Mr L set out clearly what it could and couldnt do. 
There was no reference to any discussion about the viability of a transfer, based on Mr Ls 
circumstances or objectives. And the email did not presume that a transfer would go ahead  
it simply referred to the possibility of this, but only if it was in Mr Ls best interest.
I appreciate that Mr Ls response suggests that he was already inclined to transfer his 
pension following this initial conversation. And Mr L says that Fiscale verbally advised him to 
transfer in this meeting. But given how clear the email was that Fiscale couldnt advise him 
on his pension transfer, if the information in the email didnt accurately reflect the 
conversation Mr L had with the adviser, I think he wouldve said so at the time. But Mr L 
confirmed his understanding that Fiscale couldnt and wouldnt be advising him on the 
pension transfer.
I think its likely that Fiscale and Mr L discussed his objectives and reasons for wanting to 
transfer out of the BSPS, and its possible Mr L believed Fiscale was advocating for the 
transfer of his benefits at this stage. But overall I think Mr L wouldve understood that it was Firm J, not Fiscale, that was providing him with advice to transfer his pension. I havent seen 
any evidence to show that Fiscale gave Mr L a personal recommendation, either verbally or 
in writing. The evidence Ive seen shows that it was Firm J that carried out a fact-find, risk 
assessment and ultimately produced a recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS. Fiscale 
didnt provide any advice until after Mr Ls BSPS benefits had been transferred to a personal 
pension and he needed ongoing investment advice.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm J gave the advice for Mr L to transfer out of the BSPS. And 
I dont think Fiscales earlier involvement should automatically make Fiscale liable for the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice provided by Firm J. It is my view that Firm J remains 
fully responsible for the advice it gave Mr L to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr L would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm J had advised him not to transfer. Mr Ls 
representative says Mr L was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with Fiscale. 
But on balance I dont think Mr L wouldve gone against the advice provided by Firm J. If 
Firm J had provided Mr L with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it 
wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr L wouldve acted against that advice purely based on 
his earlier discussions with Fiscale.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Js advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr L to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm J is responsible for 
Mr Ls losses flowing from the transfer.
Did Fiscale and Firm J embark on a joint venture?
Mr Ls representative says a joint venture existed between Fiscale and Firm J to facilitate 
Mr L transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any 
financial loss Mr L has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Fiscale liable for the advice given to Mr L to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Ls 
representative states that Mr L was verbally advised to transfer by Fiscale, Im satisfied Mr L 
transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm J advised him to do so, independently of 
Fiscales involvement. The fact that the initial advice fee was shared between the two firms 
doesnt change my view on this. I think Mr Ls losses flow from Firm Js advice, rather than 
because of any interaction he had with Fiscale before that.
Fiscale did not treat Mr L fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Ls representative has suggested that Fiscale didnt treat Mr L fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm J. It says that Fiscale ought to have known that transferring 
out of a defined-benefit scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it endorsed 
the advice. It adds that Fiscale gave Mr L a very positive view of Firm J, which induced him 
to engage it to transfer his pension.
As I have said above, Fiscale did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise 
Mr L on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, Fiscale could not have advised Mr L against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As Fiscale 
didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr L to Firm J, which was regulated by the 
FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think Fiscale could reasonably be expected 
to carry out further due diligence on Firm J, particularly as Firm J had the necessary 
permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also 
required to treat Mr L fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.It's possible that Fiscale gave Mr L a positive impression of Firm J, but for all the reasons 
Ive given above, I dont think that means that it should be held responsible for Firm Js 
advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was Fiscales advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Ls decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm J. I am also not 
persuaded that Fiscale made an error or treated Mr L unfairly in the role it carried out. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me 
to require Fiscale to pay compensation to Mr L or to take any further action in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman