DRN-2320895
Complaint
Ms R has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Ms R bought the policy in May 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Ms Rs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Ms R returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms R told us she could not remember how the policy was sold, but she thinks she was told 
that it was mandatory. She later added that she felt pressured into taking the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms Rs said, but feeling pressure is a subjective area  
what one person perceives as pressure may be different to another. Ms R hasnt provided a 
detailed account of what made her feel pressured and I cant know exactly what would have 
been said in the store when the policy was taken. Considering Ms R said she could not 
remember how the policy was sold, without more information from Ms R, I cant say she was 
pressured into taking the policy.
AXA has provided a copy of Ms Rs application form. Looking at the form, there is a section 
about Account Cover  PPI. This broadly explains what the cover is and underneath, there 
is a statement to say yes to Account Cover. In brackets it says, Only sign this box if you 
require Account Cover. I can see Ms R signed in the box, indicating she wanted the PPI 
added to her account.
Ive also noted that under the same section on the application form, Ms R had the option of 
selecting whether or not she wanted a Card Protection Plan. Ms R didnt select this product, 
so I think she would have known she had a choice about taking out either product. Overall, I 
think its more likely than not Ms R would have understood the PPI was optional. And I dont 
think she would have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA says it didnt recommend PPI to Ms R, but Ms R says it did. I havent seen anything on 
the application form to suggest AXA reviewed Ms Rs circumstances at the time of sale. So, I 
dont think AXA did recommend the PPI to Ms R. That means it didnt have to check the 
policy was right for her. But AXA did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so 
she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Ms R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about her 
circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I dont think better 
information would have stopped her buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest the 
policy wasnt affordable for Ms R.
Ive considered that Ms R says she was entitled to six months full sick pay, followed by six 
months half sick pay from her employer and that she would have received redundancy pay if 
she lost her job. Ms R also says her partner could have helped her to make her repayments. 
But as the policy would have paid out on top of her sick pay entitlement and potentially for 
longer, I think Ms R still could have found the cover useful if she fell on hard times. And while 
her partner may have wanted to help, their circumstances could change which means their 
help could not always be relied on. So, I dont think better information would have changed 
her decision to take the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman