DRN-2318912
The complaint
Mr G believes that a personal loan he took with Lloyds Bank PLC was mis-sold to him 
because the interest rate was too high which left him struggling to make the repayments. Mr 
G is also unhappy because he believes the loan impacted his credit score which led to his 
mortgage application being declined. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr G took out a personal loan with Lloyds. The purpose of this loan was 
primarily to consolidate existing debts, although the loan also included nearly £900 of new 
borrowing. The total amount borrowed was approximately £5,000 and the monthly 
repayment amount for the new loan was about £110.00. Mr G said that he went ahead with 
the loan application because he was advised to do so by Lloyds.
Before taking out the consolidation loan, Mr G had an agreement in principle for a mortgage 
with Lloyds. However, Mr G states that his credit score went down as a result of his taking 
the consolidation loan, and that this meant that Lloyds were no longer willing to offer him a 
mortgage and declined his mortgage application.
Mr G felt that Lloyds should have warned him that accepting the consolidation loan would 
lower his credit score and so he raised a complaint with Lloyds in December 2019. Lloyds 
looked into this complaint and responded in February 2020. Lloyds said that the loan Mr G 
had applied for was a non-advised product, which meant that they had not given any advice 
to Mr G about it. Lloyds also said that the interest rate on the consolidation loan was lower 
than the interest rates on the loan and credit card which it had replaced, which they said 
meant that Mr G had not been put in a worse financial position by taking the loan. 
Finally, Lloyds said that they had not declined Mr Gs mortgage application, but they had 
amended the mortgage offer and had increased the level of deposit required from 5% to 
15%. Lloyds confirmed that this change was as a result of an underwriting assessment 
conducted during the mortgage application process, and that they were still willing to provide 
a mortgage on those terms to Mr G, but that Mr G had chosen not to continue with the 
application.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response and so referred the matter to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint, but they thought that Lloyds had provided a 
reasonable explanation of what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
Mr G remained unhappy and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point Ive considered is whether the loan in question was mis-sold. Mr G has stated 
that he received advice from Lloyds to take the loan. However, Lloyds contend that no such 
advice was given, and that loan was sold to Mr G on a non-advised basis. 
When advice is provided by a bank to consumer to take a product such as a loan, certain 
processes, such as an assessment of suitability, are undertaken by the bank to ensure that 
the recommendations they are making are appropriate. These processes would be 
documented and kept on file. But having reviewed the documents and information provided 
by both Mr G and Lloyds, I cant find anything that confirms that advice was given by Lloyds 
to Mr G to take the loan. So, in this instance, it seems more likely than not that the loan was 
sold to Mr G on a non-advised basis.
For non-advised loan sales, banks still have a duty to provide information to the consumer 
that is clear, fair, and not misleading, as well as to ensure that the loan being applied for is 
affordable to the person applying for the loan at that time. In this instance I have seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr G wasnt aware of the nature of the loan that he was applying for, 
and indeed this was not one of Mr Gs complaints. 
I also note that Lloyds did conduct an affordability assessment with Mr G, and that this 
confirmed that the loan repayments were affordable to him at that time. This check showed 
that Mr G had a disposable monthly income of approximately £975, whereas the monthly 
loan repayment was close to £110. 
So, considering the above, it follows that I cant agree that the loan was mis-sold. I say this 
because the loan was sold on a non-advised basis, because Mr G understood the nature of 
the loan he was purchasing, and also because Lloyds confirmed that the monthly loan 
repayments were affordable for Mr G at the time the loan was taken out. 
Mr G has also stated that the interest rate on the loan was too high. As our investigator 
confirmed, it isnt the role of this service to generally decide if the interest rates offered by 
businesses are excessive or not. However, I do note that the interest rate on the 
consolidation loan was 21.3%, and that the loan was replacing a credit card which had an 
interest rate of 26.4% and a previous loan which had an interest rate of 24.7%. 
Given that the interest rate of the consolidation loan was lower than the interest rates of the 
products it was replacing, it would be difficult for me to conclude that the consolidation loan 
had worsened Mr Gs financial position. A loan like this provides a structured way of 
repaying existing borrowing, often over a longer term, but in a way that reduces the overall 
monthly payment due, and I can see thats what this loan did here. I also note that the 
interest rate of the consolidation loan was known to Mr G before he finalised the loan and so 
it was ultimately his decision to accept it.
Finally, Mr G has stated that his taking this loan caused his credit score to drop which led 
directly to Lloyds declining his mortgage application. Mr G believes that Lloyds should have 
warned him that his credit score could drop as a result of taking the loan. 
However, Lloyds have confirmed that mortgage applications of this type are not always 
solely dependent on a customers credit score, but rather that Lloyds use an internal scoring 
system to help determine the terms of the mortgage that they are willing to offer. This meant 
that as the mortgage application was being processed it was Lloyds own internal scoring 
system that was affected by the prior loan application, and it was the change to this internal 
scoring system which led to the mortgage offer requiring a higher deposit amount.
Because the mortgage offer was amended on the basis of Lloyds internal scoring system, 
and not Mr Gs credit score, this means that there werent any wider ramifications for Mr Gs credit file in the way which Mr G believes that there was. The impact here was on the 
amount of deposit required by Lloyds for them to offer the mortgage. It's for a business to 
decide whether it will lend to someone and, if so, how much and on what terms. Here Lloyds 
took into account what it knew about Mr Gs circumstances and made an offer based on that 
 which is what Id expect.
Mr G has stated that Lloyds staff should have informed him that the loan application would 
have affected the mortgage offer. However, its worth noting that the factors and parameters 
that affect a companys own internal scoring systems are often not known or understood by 
the staff conducting the applications, and that this is so that staff cant consciously or 
unconsciously manipulate the information put into the system to obtain a desired result. And 
Lloyds have confirmed that this is the case in this instance. This means that its unlikely that 
Lloyds staff would have known before conducting the loan application that it would have 
affected the internal scoring system so that a higher deposit amount being would be required 
for the mortgage.
So, its difficult for me to say that Lloyds have acted inappropriately here, especially as they 
did not decline Mr Gs mortgage application, but rather amended the conditions of the 
application so that a higher deposit amount was required. While I can understand how the 
requirement for a higher deposit amount may have meant that the mortgage offer became 
prohibitive for Mr G, and how this may have been frustrating for him, ultimately, this was a 
decision that Lloyds are entitled to make. 
I know that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was hoping for, but I hope that he can 
understand why, based on everything I have explained above, I wont be upholding his 
complaint or asking Lloyds to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman