DRN-3060808
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms M runs a business. She has legal expenses insurance for her business, which includes 
access to a legal helpline.
In May 2020, one of her employees refused to return from furlough after lockdown 
restrictions were eased. Between June and August, Ms M made several calls to the helpline, 
first about a grievance raised by the employee (which was resolved) and then  after the 
employee had returned - for advice about dismissing her.
Ms M has said the advice she was given was that it was safe to dismiss the employee with a 
weeks notice, and she didnt have to provide a reason for the dismissal. Ms M called and 
checked this advice before dismissing the employee. She says she was specifically told not 
to give a reason as this would leave it open to appeal.
In August 2020, Ms M learned that the employee intended to make a claim to the 
employment tribunal for unfair dismissal and sex discrimination. She contacted Amtrust and 
asked for urgent advice.
Amtrust appointed panel solicitors to consider Ms Ms claim. They advised in late September 
2020 that Ms M wasnt likely to succeed in defending the unfair dismissal claim but had a 
greater than 50% chance of success in defending the discrimination claim. Its a requirement 
of the policy that chances of success are at least 51% for cover to be provided.
Ms M thought Amtrust would provide cover for the sex discrimination claim, but Amtrust 
rejected the whole claim. 
In December 2020, after Ms M had asked a number of times for clarification, Amtrust 
confirmed the reason they wouldnt fund the sex discrimination claim was because this issue 
had arisen before the start of her policy.
Ms M sought legal advice elsewhere and funded this herself. She obtained an opinion in 
April 2021 which also said the employee was likely to succeed in the unfair dismissal claim 
but not the discrimination claim.
The legal advice was that Ms M was likely to lose the dismissal claim because she hadnt 
followed the correct procedure. Ms M says this only happened because she followed the 
advice from the helpline.
Amtrust later confirmed that the sex discrimination claim would be covered and has paid 
50% of Ms Ms legal costs but didnt agree that the dismissal claim should be covered.
When Ms M brought the complaint to this service, our investigator said Amtrust should have 
covered the discrimination claim from the outset. And with regard to the dismissal claim, she 
said although that claim didnt have a reasonable chance of success, the only reason for this 
was that Ms M had been given the wrong advice by the helpline and had followed that 
advice. So she said if the tribunal awarded compensation to the employee, Amtrust should 
pay that award, since Ms M would not have been ordered to pay anything but for the wrong 
advice given to her.
The investigator also said Amtrust should pay compensation of £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms M. She said the poor advice given to Ms M, together with the 
delays dealing with the claim, had left her without representation at a very difficult time.
Since the investigator issued her view, the tribunal has provided its judgment. The outcome 
is in line with the advice from both firms of solicitors  the tribunal found that the employee 
had been unfairly dismissed but was not a victim of discrimination. A further hearing is to be 
held to decide on the award of compensation Ms M will have to pay to the employee for the 
unfair dismissal.
Amtrust said it was happy to pay 8% interest on the legal costs it has agreed to cover, and 
compensation of £300 for the delay in dealing with the claim. But it maintained that it should 
not have to cover the unfair dismissal claim, since Ms M never had prospects of success in 
relation to that claim.
Amtrust also provided further comments from its panel solicitors on the advice Ms M 
received from the helpline. It said the advice was based on the information Ms M provided; 
she had told the helpline the employee had been dismissed and then re-employed six weeks 
later; and this gap in service meant it was safe to dismiss her. But Amtrust says that 
information wasnt correct.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint in part, for the following 
reasons:
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and not unreasonably 
reject a claim.
The policy provides cover for legal costs for a range of disputes (and also covers 
compensation awards for certain types of employment disputes). But the policy terms say a 
claim must have prospects of success, which means it must be more likely than not that the 
policyholder will win their case. Terms like this are common in legal expenses policies. They 
mean insurers dont have to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. 
The policy terms also say theres no cover if the dispute arose before the start of the policy 
and which the policyholder knew (or should reasonably have known) could lead to a claim. 
Again, this is not unusual; insurance is generally intended to cover the risk of a future event, 
not something that has already happened.
Amtrust referred the claim to its panel solicitors to assess. They advised that Ms M wasnt 
likely to succeed in the unfair dismissal claim, but was likely to succeed in the discrimination 
claim. In those circumstances, it would generally be reasonable to refuse cover for the dismissal claim, where Ms M didnt have a reasonable chance of success. But Id expect 
Amtrust to provide cover for the discrimination claim.
However, Ms M says the only reason she didnt have prospects of success in the dismissal 
claim is that she acted on the wrong advice given to her by the helpline. The helpline is a 
service provided on behalf of the insurer, as part of the policy. So its something we can 
consider. But I wouldnt normally comment on the quality of the actual advice given other 
than in exceptional circumstances. In this case, Ms M says the advice was obviously wrong, 
as confirmed by the subsequent legal advice and the tribunals decision. So Ive considered 
whether the advice was obviously wrong and if Ms M has suffered a loss as a result of acting 
on the basis of that advice, particularly as she went back and asked the helpline to confirm 
the advice more than once.
It doesnt seem to be disputed that the reason Ms M lost the dismissal claim was that she 
hadnt followed the correct procedure when dismissing the employee. The tribunal made it 
clear it accepted that Ms M followed the advice given to her and was advised that, since the 
employee didnt have two years continuous service, there was no need to follow any 
procedure. The tribunal also accepted that, if she had been advised to follow correct 
procedure, she would have done so. Ms M did have grounds to dismiss the employee  so 
the dismissal itself wasnt wrong  but in fact the employee did have two years continuous 
service so the correct process should have been followed.
It does seem the only reason Ms M wasnt able to defend the dismissal claim was due to the 
actions she took following the advice from the helpline. She says it isnt fair if she has lost 
out as a result of that poor advice. But I have to balance that against the points made by 
Amtrust. The helpline only gives general advice, without seeing any documents, and relies 
on the information provided by the policyholder. And it now seems clear the information it 
was relying on wasnt correct; the adviser understood there had been a break in service of 
six weeks between a previous dismissal and re-employment. But that wasnt the case  the 
break in service had only been a few days. This meant that, for legal purposes, the 
employee had been in continuous service. Ms M acknowledged this when it came to trial and 
the tribunal found against her on that basis.
Given that the claim didnt have prospects of success, then Ms M wasnt entitled to cover 
under the policy terms. And taking all of the above factors into account, I dont think it would 
be fair to say the helpline advice was responsible for loss Ms M suffered. The two solicitors 
who had access to all the information came to the same conclusion that Ms M should have 
followed the procedure before dismissing the employee. On balance, its likely that if the 
helpline had also had access to all the information, it would have reached a similar 
conclusion, and the reason it came to a different view was that it was acting on limited and 
incorrect information.
So I dont think its fair for Amtrust to have to cover this element of the claim. In these 
circumstances, its offer to pay 50% of her legal costs (together with interest) is fair.
Having said that, I do think there was unreasonable delay in dealing with the claim. It took 
several months for Ms M to obtain confirmation of the full reasons for the claim being 
declined. Amtrust said the claim wasnt covered because the dispute started before the 
policy began. Ms M had had a previous policy with another insurer and had to approach that 
insurer. But there was a delay before she could do that, as Amtrust hadnt explained this to 
her. Ms M had to instruct solicitors herself.
Amtrust eventually agreed to cover the discrimination claim, but I think it could have done 
that much earlier. In the meantime, Ms M was caused substantial distress and worry over a 
sustained period of many months. She was going through something that would have been stressful in any event, and this added to that distress considerably. Taking all the 
circumstances into account, I think a payment of £1,000 would be reasonable to reflect the 
degree of worry and distress caused to Ms M.
Replies to the provisional decision
Amtrust has accepted the provisional decision and has no further comments to add.
Ms M has not accepted it, and has made some further comments. She says:
The employee did stop working for around four to six weeks, but wasnt issued a 
P45.
The solicitors and the tribunal agreed this wasnt a break in service but the helpline 
said it was  based on the same information. She called the helpline multiple times to 
check the advice  the tribunal accepted she did everything she could  so its not 
clear why she should now be expected to doubt the helplines advice.
The information about the six week break in employment wasnt misinformation, it 
was correct and the helpline gave wrong advice based on that. If they couldnt give 
accurate advice, they should have told her and she would have got advice 
elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Ms Ms further points carefully but they dont lead me to change my 
provisional decision. The comments Amtrust obtained from the solicitors confirm that Ms M 
initially told the helpline the employee had been employed for six years but in a later call, she 
explained there had been a change in the businesses and the employee had had a break in 
employment of around six weeks. When the adviser called back and asked her if the 
employee had been issued with a P45 Ms M confirmed she had been.
I havent listened to the call recordings but I have read the transcripts and the notes are 
consistent with the comments from the solicitor (who had listened to them). So I have no 
reason to doubt what they have said. Im satisfied the helplines advice was based on 
information from Ms M that the employee had been issued with her P45 and there had been 
a break in employment of six weeks. 
On this basis it remains my view that Ms M wasnt entitled to cover for the dismissal claim 
under the policy terms. And it wouldnt be fair to say the helpline advice was responsible for 
any loss she suffered in relation to this. I think its likely the helpline would have reached a 
similar conclusion to the other solicitors if it had also had access to all the information. She 
was entitled to cover for the discrimination claim but as Amtrust has already agreed to pay 
50% of her legal costs (together with interest) theres no further action to take in respect of 
that. The only further action needed is to pay the £1,000 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to 
pay Ms M compensation of £1,000 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman