DRN-2971829
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice and customer service he received from TSB Bank plc 
concerning transfer of funds to his ISA after his wife died.  
What happened
Mr M is represented in this complaint by his daughter, Ms M. For the sake of simplicity in this 
decision I have referred to all the submissions from Mr Ms representative as being made by 
Mr M.
In March 2020, Mr Ms wife passed away. 10 days later, Mr M attended a TSB branch to 
inform TSB of his late wifes passing. During this visit, he completed a deceased customer 
claim form with the branch staff and was advised the late Mrs Ms Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) balance could be transferred directly to his own ISA, in line with the Additional 
ISA Subscription Allowances rules.
Mr M reported that the TSB branch staff told him this couldnt be done at the branch. So, the 
request was sent to TSBs Estates team. Following this Mr M received a letter saying the 
claim form was incomplete. Mr M was also told by the Estates team the funds couldnt be 
transferred directly from one ISA to another.
After trying to establish what was needed to transfer the funds into his ISA, which would 
need another visit to the branch, Mr M complained to TSB about the poor service hed 
received. 
In its final response TSB accepted the branch staff should have been aware of the ISA 
process and should have explained that a direct transfer couldnt be done. It apologised and 
credited Mr Ms account with £100. 
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said he should be 
appropriately compensated for the financial benefit that he is now not getting because of the 
poor service he received from TSB. 
Our investigator concluded that TSB couldve done more to help Mr M and thought TSB 
should pay Mr M a further £300 in compensation. Both parties disagreed with this 
assessment and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. Each made additional comments 
and where necessary I have responded to them below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will be instructing TSB to pay Mr M a further £300 in compensation. 
Firstly, I offer my sincere condolences to Mr M and his family for the loss of Mrs M. I can 
understand this must have been a difficult time for them.
I trust Mr M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
the right outcome.
Mr M is upset with the customer service he received when he informed the bank his wife had 
passed away and tried to transfer his wifes ISA balance to his own ISA. Mr M reports that 
the staff in branch treated him very kindly. But I can see from the details of the complaint and 
the phone calls between Mr M, his representative and TSB that they became frustrated and 
upset that they were told the claim form was incomplete and that they were given incorrect 
information. They were also upset that the process to transfer the money from Mrs Ms ISA 
to Mr Ms was becoming unnecessarily complicated, including that it would involve Mr M 
going back to the branch. Mr M is over 70 and reports having mobility problems.  
TSB has accepted the branch staff should be aware of the ISA allowance rules process and 
should have explained that a direct transfer wasnt possible. But TSB said it followed its 
process regarding the ISA. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator and we do 
not have a role in reviewing the adequacy of TSBs processes. But I can look at whether 
TSB has applied its process fairly.
Mr M was given incorrect information at the branch. Following that, during a lengthy phone 
call with the Estates team he was told that there couldnt be a direct transfer from ISA to ISA 
because it interferes with the subscription allowance. The Estates team were also not able to 
help Mr M understand how he could do the transfer and it recommended he call the ISA 
department. 
On a letter dated 24 March TSB said 
Any surviving spouse or civil partner of the deceased ISA holder is entitled to an 
additional ISA allowance. Further details are included in the enclosed leaflet.
Our investigator asked TSB to evidence it previously fully explained what Mr M needed to 
do. TSB sent a copy of the leaflet it sent to Mr M. 
It says: 
You can pay in this Additional Permitted Subscription Allowance into an existing ISA 
you have with us already or open a new one. There are different types of ISA 
available. In order to find the right one for you further details can be found on 
tsb.co.uk. Or drop into branch for more information.
You can also transfer the allowance to another ISA manager. To do this you will need 
to contact that ISA manager.
There is no explanation in this leaflet about how a customer might go about getting the 
allowance  the steps involved and who to talk to about it.
In its final response to Mr M TSB said: 
We cannot transfer funds directly into another ISA. The reason being the amount 
exceeds the subscription amount, and the added permitted subscription allowance 
hasn't been added to allow the credit of the funds. Therefore, they will be rejected by 
the receiving ISA. The funds would be returned to an account that has already been 
closed as part of the estate. We would therefore credit a current account and then the spouse who is entitled to the allowance could credit the ISA within the 
subscription when it has been confirmed that the allowance has been added.
In this letter the instructions on how to get the allowance are: 
The spouse would need to complete an added permitted subscription allowance with 
the bank of the receiving ISA to enable this.
This explanation is not clear to me. 
TSB told this service its not part of its Estate Settlement process to transfer funds directly to 
another ISA, even one held with it. It said technically it could be a case of increasing the 
subscription limit, but that its not just a transaction to process, its more than that.
It does seem to me that at various times TSB could have been more helpful by explaining 
more fully and simply what the process was, especially as he was recently bereaved and the 
issue at hand was connected to this bereavement. And because, as TSB told this service, 
its more than just a transaction to process. 
TSB told this service that there is an additional declaration required when using the 
allowance, as not all beneficiaries are entitled to it. It said a customer doesnt need to know 
how to get the limit increased, thats a transaction it arranges, but Mr M does need to 
complete the declaration (in branch). TSB went on to say it believes Mr M had been told on 
more than one occasion.
Im not disputing TSB told Mr M this information, but in the calls and correspondence 
evidence I havent seen that it explained what needs to be done in the same clear way it has 
done to this service e.g. why a branch visit was necessary (to complete the declaration) or 
that neither Mr M nor his representative needed to know how to get the allowance. Mr M said 
they were given the impression at the branch that it was a straightforward transaction. 
Nor do I think there was any consideration for the fact Ms M requested an alternative way 
given Mr M has mobility issues. Irrespective of a pandemic, as our investigator pointed out, it 
would be reasonable to expect processes to be in place for vulnerable customers who are 
unable to visit the branch.  
TSB said the most important point here is that the ability to use the additional ISA allowance 
remains for three years, so there was no urgent need to arrange anything. I agree that there 
was no urgent need to action the ISA. And while I accept this is written in the leaflet, I do 
think that this timing could have been explained to Mr M or his representative over the phone 
in order to reassure them that Mr M didnt need to action right away and thus didnt need to 
visit the branch again right away.
TSB has said it doesnt feel its appropriate to pay additional compensation when it followed 
its process. Im not disputing it followed its process, but Im persuaded TSB could have 
helped Mr M further in implementing the process.  I can see this issue has caused Mr M 
inconvenience and upset at a very difficult time, so I consider an additional £300 
compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr M believes he has been financially disadvantaged as a result of TSBs actions. While I 
accept that TSB could have been more helpful with respect to helping Mr M transfer the 
money from ISA to ISA TSB hasnt said or suggested it couldnt be done. It was Mr Ms 
choice to invest his money away from TSB so it wouldnt be fair of me to hold TSB for any 
financial disadvantage associated with that choice. TSB has confirmed the ability to use the ISA allowance remains for three years. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right TSB should pay Mr M an additional £300 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and TSB Bank plc should put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman