DRN-1706247
 
The complaint
Mrs C, Mr K and Mr K, the executors of the estate of Mrs J, complain about Aviva Insurance 
Limiteds handling of a claim under her home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The three executors of the late Mrs Js estate have at times in the course of this complaint 
been represented by a third party (a relative of Mrs J). For ease of reference, Ill refer to all 
those involved as the estate.
Mrs J had a HomeServe emergency homecare policy underwritten by Aviva. The estate has 
brought three complaints to our service about claims made under that policy. 
One of these - which related to Avivas handling of a claim for repairs to the electrics at 
Mrs Js property, a blocked drain and pest control  has already been concluded with an 
ombudsmans final decision. Im not going to go into that complaint again here.
Another  which is about the installation of a new boiler and water tank  is being dealt with 
separately. That complaint has also been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Again, Im not going to go into those issues here as theyre being considered separately. 
This decision is solely about the estates complaint that Aviva mis-handled a claim when 
they failed to properly detect and repair a leak in Mrs Js bathroom. The estate say this 
failure led to considerable damage to the property subsequently.
In January 2019, Aviva (HomeServe) were notified of a leak in Mrs Js bathroom. They 
arranged for a plumber to attend and he carried out some repairs to the toilet cistern.
Two weeks later, Aviva were told that the leak persisted and sent out the same plumber 
again. At that point, the water in the property was turned off whilst a new boiler was being 
installed.
The plumber could find no leak in or around the toilet  from where the water appeared to be 
emanating. He thought a possible source might be a vent pipe, which went up through the 
roof. And he suggested the family ask a roofer to look at the seal between the roof and the 
pipe.
The new boiler installation was completed around February 2019 and the water was turned 
back on again after that.
Very sadly, Mrs J passed away at around this time. The property was unoccupied and was 
being prepared for sale by the estate. This included extensive renovations to the bathroom 
and the rooms close to it.
At the end of December 2019, the estate told Aviva the water leak in the bathroom was still 
on-going. And in January 2020, they arranged for roofers to inspect the access point for the 
vent pipe. The roofers carried out some work which the estate says was primarily to repair 
tiles theyd damaged when carrying out their inspection.
When this appeared not to resolve the problem, the estate carried out some further 
investigations and found a leak from a joint in a water pipe which was boxed in at the back of 
the bathroom.
By that time, there was considerable water damage to the bathroom and adjoining rooms  
which the estate say cost (along with the repairs to the pipe) close to £4,000 to put right.
The estate complained to Aviva that their contractor could and should have identified the 
source of the leak in 2019. And they asked Aviva to pay for the repairs.
When Aviva didnt uphold that complaint, the estate brought it to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought it should be upheld in part.
He thought Aviva should pay for the investigations and repair to the pipe carried out by the 
estate  because Aviva should have attended to carry out that work when the continuing 
leak was reported (the costs amount to £335).
But he said Aviva couldnt be held responsible for the damage to the bathroom and adjacent 
rooms. He thought the leak would have been spotted much sooner had the property been 
occupied  and the damage would therefore have been prevented.
He also thought the estate had been slow to take action to resolve the supposed source of 
the leak. If theyd acted sooner as regards the roof, the real issue would have been apparent 
much sooner.
And he didnt think Avivas contractors actions in 2019 had been entirely unreasonable 
given the situation as it presented itself at the time, particularly given that the water was 
turned off when he attended.
The estate disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been some debate between the parties as to how the leak in the water pipe came 
about.
Aviva say its likely the pipe was jolted during the bathroom renovations, causing a leak at 
the joint. And so, their contractor couldnt have picked up the leak in 2019 because it wasnt 
there. And they say if the pipe had been leaking before the renovations, the estate would 
have noticed this when they carried out the work in the bathroom.
I think its unlikely the leak was caused by the renovation work. The photographs we have of 
the pipe and the area around it suggest the pipe had been leaking for some time. And the 
leaking pipe is the simplest explanation of why the problem persisted after the contractors 
visits in 2019. 
Im also not convinced the estate would have necessarily spotted the issue during the 
renovations given that the water had been previously turned off for a period of time and this 
appears to be a relatively slow leak.
However, I also note that the estate did report to Aviva that theyd found some water 
entering the bathroom through the hole in the roof where the vent pipe exited. And Im aware 
the contractor did appear to fix a problem with the cistern on his first visit in 2019.So, I think its very likely there were originally three sources of the leaking water  only one 
of which, the cistern, was fixed almost immediately.
In that context, its understandable that the contractor thought the most likely cause of the 
persisting problem - when he visited the second time  was the vent pipe. Particularly given 
that the water was turned off at the time, which made it very unlikely he was ever going to 
identify the problem with the water pipe.
I also think its reasonable for Aviva to expect that the estate would act on that advice 
reasonably quickly. And that theyd be hyper-vigilant for any on-going issue when the water 
was turned back on.
Generally, insurance policyholders are required to ensure they reasonably mitigate any 
losses they might suffer. And from looking at the contact notes, I dont think there was ever a 
point where the contractor said that hed definitively identified the source of the leak. So, the 
estate might reasonably have been expected to look out for any recurrence as soon as the 
water supply was turned back on.
As our investigator pointed out, home emergency policies are  as the name suggests  
designed to deal with emergencies at occupied properties. Almost by definition, if no-one is 
there to notice a leak or other emergency, it will be difficult for the insurer to attend quickly 
and limit the damage caused.
Aviva havent declined cover on that basis  and I think thats reasonable and fair in all the 
circumstances  but I think they could reasonably expect that the estate would take steps to 
ensure that any emergencies were identified quickly, so that Aviva could take steps 
immediately to prevent further damage.
In normal circumstances, if Aviva sent a contractor to deal with an emergency and it wasnt 
properly resolved, the occupier of the property would fairly soon let them know. And they 
could then take further measures to ensure any repairs were effective.
In this case, Avivas contractor left the property in February 2019, believing  I think not 
unreasonably - that hed identified the problem. It was more than 10 months later that they 
heard from their customer that the problem hadnt been resolved. And by that time, it 
appears significant damage had been done to the property  requiring £4,000-worth of 
repairs.
In summary, I dont think its reasonable for me to hold Aviva responsible for the damage to 
the bathroom and adjacent rooms and to ask them to pay for the repairs.
Our investigator asked Aviva to pay for the cost of tracing and repairing the leak in the water 
pipe. Not because he thought they ought to have found it in early 2019, but because he 
thought they should have attended to put things right in early 2020.
Aviva disagreed because they thought they hadnt been given an opportunity to carry out 
that work. The estate essentially went ahead and found the source of the leak  and repaired 
it  themselves.
Whilst I take Avivas point in principle, I agree with our investigator that its unlikely they 
would have attended and carried out the work in early 2020. They maintain even now that 
the leak was caused by the bathroom renovations  so they presumably wouldnt have 
accepted responsibility for repairing it even if they had been given the chance.Putting things right
So, I agree they should pay the costs of tracing the leak and repairing it. These come to 
£335, including the cost of labour which the estate provided. Whilst Aviva might have been 
able to carry out the work at a cheaper cost, I think its fair to pay the estate at the rates they 
could have commanded had they been free to carry out work elsewhere. And I think it was 
reasonable for the estate to go ahead with the repairs as soon as possible rather than 
themselves shop around for a cheaper price.
The estate are already aware, from the information we provided in relation to the previous 
complaint, that we cant award compensation for trouble and upset to an estate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the estate of Mrs J £335 to cover the cost of tracing and 
repairing the leak to the water pipe.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, Mr K and 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman