Complaint
Mr A says Stagemount Limited trading at the time as Quidmarket  irresponsibly lent to him 
as the loan he took out was unaffordable.       
Background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Quidmarket provided to Mr A for £300 on 29 
January 2019 for a term of six months. It was repaid on 11 July 2019. Mr As highest monthly 
repayment for the loan was £92.51.
Quidmarket did not uphold Mr As complaint. In its final response to Mr A, it told him it had 
investigated the matter and found that the creditworthiness checks it had undertaken were 
proportionate and in line with its regulatory responsibilities.
In making his complaint to this service, Mr A said that his financial situation was not 
sufficiently checked to make sure hed be able to repay his loan. If Quidmarket had looked at 
his bank statements it wouldn't have given him the loan. The loan caused financial distress 
and has had an impact on his life. He explained that he has had to borrow from other lenders 
and family to cover the costs.
Our adjudicator didn't think this was a complaint which should be upheld. Mr A didn't agree 
with this assessment. He also said that he thought there was more than one loan to be 
considered. He asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. So, 
the case has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quidmarket should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
DRN-1909011the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quidmarket was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr A feels strongly about his complaint and I want to assure him that Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and what 
this all means for his complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I will explain below why Ive 
decided not to uphold his complaint.
When Quidmarket gave Mr A his loan it said it carried out a series of checks.
Quidmarket has provided a copy of Mr As application form from the time. I can see on this 
application Mr A told Quidmarket that he was living at home with his parents and that his 
monthly income was £1,490. He also said his monthly expenses were £700, leaving him with 
a monthly disposable income of £790. Quidmarket said it had also verified Mr As income.
Quidmarket also carried out a credit reference agency check. The credit check it carried out 
revealed that Mr A had a number of other monthly credit commitments and taking this 
information into account it adjusted Mr As disposable income to £538 (from £790 based on 
Mr As figures).  So in reaching its conclusion about Mr As available disposable income after 
it had adjusted the figures, it still thought Mr A had more than enough disposable income to 
repay his monthly obligations for this loan.
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about early in the lending relationship the checks 
Quidmarket did should have been proportionate and reasonable. I think the levels of checks 
it carried out in this case, together with consideration of the income and expenditure details 
provided by Mr A were likely to have been proportionate. I have next gone onto consider whether based on the checks it did and the results it saw, if it 
had properly considered the information, Quidmarket would have reached the conclusion 
that this loan was affordable to Mr A. Following the checks it did, Ive considered whether it 
was right for Quidmarket to have made the decision to lend to Mr A. Mr A is adamant that 
Quidmarket couldn't have made sufficient investigation into his circumstances at the time. 
He has provided copies of his bank statements which I have considered carefully.
As Ive explained this was the first loan Mr A took out with Quidmarket, so I dont think it 
would have been proportionate to look into his bank statements. I have also looked at the 
extract of the credit report I think Quidmarket likely saw. I think it has taken all Mr As 
circumstances into account and adjusted his disposable income to better reflect and create a 
more realistic picture of Mr As outgoings. Taking the credit report into consideration, 
although there were a few loans hed taken out, it doesn't seem to me that these were 
overdue, or hed experienced difficulty in repaying them. Based on this information, the 
amount of Mr As declared income; his expenditure which took into account a number of 
different expenses including the extra credit costs; and the monthly repayment obligations 
for this loan Mr A had taken out, I still dont think Quidmarket would have been alerted to 
Mr A having problems managing money at this point in its lending relationship. So, I dont 
think it needed to do more to verify the information it had about Mr As financial 
circumstances.
Mr A repaid each repayment as it fell due and the loan is now repaid in full.
Ive also thought about what Mr A has said about another loan he took out with Quidmarket. 
But I cant see that there is any evidence that Quidmarket gave Mr A another loan.
Im sorry to disappoint but Mr A but for the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman