DRN-1589868
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd.s decision to cancel her car 
insurance policy when she changed address and changed employment. 
All reference to Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim under her car insurance policy in November 2019. Later that month she 
told her broker shed changed address and become unemployed. 
Accredited Insurance said that due to these changes it could no longer insure Mrs C as the 
risk was outside of its underwriting criteria. Because a claim had been made under the 
policy, this meant Mrs C owed the full years premium and so no refund was given for the 
rest of the policy year. 
Mrs C thought Accredited Insurances decision was unfair. So she asked us to look at her 
complaint. 
Our investigator explained that an insurer can make a commercial decision as to what risk its 
prepared to accept. Accredited Insurance provided underwriting evidence to show it wouldnt 
provide cover in Mrs Cs circumstances. It wasnt something we could share with Mrs C as 
underwriting criteria is business sensitive information. 
Mrs C said she believes the underwriting criteria should be in line across the industry so that 
there are no hidden surprises for customers. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs contract with Accredited Insurance when she bought her policy was for a year. As it 
dealt with a claim under the policy, it fulfilled its obligations and so the premium under the 
contract is due in full. So I dont think this is an unusual term. Mrs Cs policy says:
Claims
No refund of premium will be provided if you have made a claim under this policy, or 
if one has been made against you, during the period of insurance and if you are 
paying by instalments, you will have to pay the balance of the annual premium.
I can understand why Mrs C is disappointed with Accredited Insurances decision not to 
continue to provide cover when she changed address and occupation. Under the section of 
her policy titled changes to your circumstances Accredited Insurance explains that Miss R 
must tell it about a change to her address or occupation (among other things) during the 
period of cover. It also said that any changes are subject to its agreement and may not be 
acceptable. 
Our approach to changes in employment mid-term is that generally its unfair for an insurer to 
cancel a policy for this reason. Its not unusual for a customer to change employment more 
than once a year. However, the fundamental risk  unless the change was to a delivery 
driver for example  hasnt changed. And so we think this can result in an unduly harsh 
outcome for a customer. We would generally say that an insurer has been unfair by 
cancelling a policy mid-term for a change in employment. But we wouldnt interfere with an 
insurers decision not to offer a policy at renewal for the same reason. 
However, a change of address as to where the car is kept is what we consider to be a 
fundamental change in risk. So if an insurer decides not to accept the risk the new address 
brings as it falls outside their underwriting criteria, we dont think its acted unreasonably by 
cancelling a policy mid-term. 
As the investigator explained, an insurers decision as to what risk it wants to accept is a 
business decision and not one we can interfere with. It varies from insurer to insurer. And 
this is why we see such a range of prices for cover on comparison websites even though 
they are using identical details weve given to provide a quote.
So I dont think it would have been reasonable for Accreditation Insurance to cancel Mrs Cs 
policy for a change of occupation alone mid-term. However, I think its decision to cancel Mrs 
Cs policy for the change of address was a decision it was entitled to make in line with the 
risk it was prepared to cover. So this means the outcome of Mrs Cs complaint remains 
unchanged. 
I appreciate that Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Accredited 
Insurance cancelled her policy fairly due to a fundamental change of risk to which it agreed 
when Mrs C bought the policy. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman