DRN-3147976
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) requested she confirm her income 
and expenditure when asking for an extension on her repayment plan.
What happened
Miss K complained to Lloyds about having to provide details about her income and 
expenditure when requesting an extension on her repayment plan. Lloyds explained that it 
needed updated details of her income and expenditure in order to ensure that the repayment 
plan was affordable.
Miss K is also unhappy at the service she received following the request for an extension of 
her repayment plan. She is unhappy at the number of calls she received and the time it took 
to resolve her complaint at a time when she was suffering from a serious health condition. 
Lloyds agreed that the service it provided didnt meet its standards and compensated Miss K 
£75. Miss K would like further compensation for the stress this has caused her and referred 
her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds hadnt made a 
mistake in asking for her income and expenditure details and thought compensation of £75 
was fair based on the information provided by both Miss K and Lloyds. Miss K disagreed and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im in agreement with our adjudicator and I think that 
what Lloyds has already done to put things right for Miss K is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as what information it requires when lending 
or setting up a repayment plan. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have 
no regulatory or disciplinary role.
That being said I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to request updated information 
on Miss Ks income and expenditure when she requested an extension to her repayment 
plan  indeed Lloyds has a duty to make sure that the repayment plan was affordable for 
her. So I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong here.  
Lloyds has however accepted that its service following the request for an extension of the 
payment plan wasnt as it should have been and compensated Miss K £75. Miss K says she 
was inconvenienced by receiving a large number of calls from Lloyds and also having to 
ensure her bank balance was kept at zero while it sorted out her request. This was at a time 
where Miss K was suffering with a serious medical condition.
I sympathise with Miss K as she has been through what sounds like a very difficult and 
upsetting time and the service she received wasnt as good as it shouldve been. 
But my role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable. 
Lloyds has already paid Miss K £75 compensation for the inadequate service she received 
and taking into consideration all the information provided I do think that this is a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate Miss K for. So Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman