DRN-2244402
The complaint
Mr R complains Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him insurance policies. 
What happened
Mr R is unhappy about policies sold to him by Lloyds when he held a business account with
them.
Mr R said he was told he had to have them to protect the large overdraft on his business
account. He said the branch insisted he took out the policies to protect him in the event he
couldnt repay his debts due to sickness or accident. As such he believed the policies were
payment protection insurance (PPI).
But it has since come to light that the policy premiums Mr R has been paying werent for PPI;
they were for private medical insurance and an accident protection policy. There was also a
life insurance policy, but this was dealt with under a separate complaint.
Mr R complained to Lloyds. But due to the time that has passed since Mr Rs business
account was closed in 2003 they didnt hold any records about when or how the polices were
sold.
Mr R provided additional statements from 1993-2003 showing the premiums paid for each
policy during this period. The statements assisted the business in conducting a further
search of their systems which identified more information about when the policies had been
in place and the premium charges at that time. So Lloyds was able to investigate Mr Rs
concerns.
Lloyds concluded that although there wasnt much information available, based on what they
knew about their sales process at that time they didnt agree the policies had been mis-sold.
Unhappy with this response Mr R referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint because she
didnt think the policies had been mis sold.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed to me to
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has been unable to provide us with much information, which due to the time that has
passed since these policies were active, isnt unreasonable.
I say this because, from the information that is available, it appears the last payment towards
either type of health insurance was the medical insurance Mr cancelled in July 2003. So
under the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR) rules that apply, Lloyds must
dispose of any data which is no longer in use, i.e. relating to an inactive policy, within six
years. So we wouldnt expect Lloyds to still have any information on these policies. 
And Im satisfied Lloyds has taken all reasonable steps, such as contacting each
individual insurer, to try and identify as much information as possible about the policies in
order to assess suitability. I also note it sent Mr R prepaid envelopes to post back whatever
documents he could provide.
On receipt of the additional statements provided by Mr R, Lloyds were able to identify more
information about the insurance Mr R was paying for. So I can confirm the following:
- Private medical insurance:
Although the start date remains unclear, I can see that from 1993 Mr R had private
medical insurance in place. This was a standalone health insurance policy that provided
cover for private medical treatment. From the statements provided Mr R was paying a
monthly premium of around £30.98.
In 2000 this policy was then replaced with a policy called 6 Star private medical
insurance with the same underwriter. Records show Mr R cancelled this policy in 2003.
-Accident protection insurance:
Although the start date remains unclear, we can see that from 1993 Mr R also had an
accident protection plan in place with a different underwriter. This was a standalone
policy that provided cover for permanent disability or death that was the result of an
accident. The insurance also provided lump sum payments for stays in hospital following
an accident.
From the statements provided Mr R was paying a monthly premium of around £9.25 And
it appears the last payment was made in July 2000.
Ive thought first about whether Lloyds recommended these policies to Mr R. Lloyds say
their sales process at the time was non-advised and Mr R wouldve been provided with the
key information about the policy. Mr R has provided us with a letter from Lloyds, dated
November 1992, in relation to taking out their accident protection insurance plan. The letter
appears to have been posted to Mr Rs home address. It explains the benefits of this form of
protection and encloses the application form to complete and return. This suggests Lloyds
didnt provide Mr R with specific advice about whether the policy was suitable for him. But
they still had to provide him with clear, fair and not misleading information so he could
decide whether the insurance was right for him.
Mr R has said the policies werent right for him because of the debt his business account
was in at the time. We dont have any policy documentation but Im persuaded Mr R
wouldve been made aware of the cost of the policy, before completing the application form
to say he wanted to go ahead with the purchase. And as it appears Mr R was sent out an
application form to his home address and the sale was non advised, Im unable to Lloyds 
mis-sold this policy through pressure in the branch.
We dont hold any sale documentation in relation to the private medical insurance Mr R also 
had in place, so Im unable to address the method of sale. But the premiums for the policy 
were appearing on Mr Rs statements. So Im satisfied he was aware of the cost and 
couldve cancelled the policy if he felt it was too expensive whilst he was so heavily in his 
overdraft.
Mr R has said Lloyds told him he had to have both policies, so Ive carefully considered this
point. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest either insurance was a condition of Mr Rs
business account or overdraft debt.In summary, the sale of the accident plan seems to have been non-advised so it was up to
Mr R to ensure the policy was right for his needs. And although we dont know how the
private medical insurance was sold, I havent seen anything to suggest the cover provided
was unsuitable and Mr R wouldnt have been able to make a claim. There is also no
evidence that either insurance policy was a condition of Mr Rs overdraft and Im satisfied Mr
R was aware of the costs of the premiums so he couldve cancelled them if he thought they
were too expensive and causing his debt to increase. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman