DRN-3203265
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax will not refund all of the money
she lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Between 16 October 2019 and 9 December 2019, Mrs K made 12 international payments
totalling just over £4,000. She thought she was buying electrical beauty appliances from a
legitimate seller. Unfortunately, she was really interacting with a fraudster.
Mrs K first came into contact with the fraudster after seeing an advert for the appliance on a
wholesale website. The minimum order was for five units. The price to buy five units was not
far off the recommended retail price for one unit on the high street. Mrs K has explained that
she was happy to buy five units as she could give the additional ones to friends and family.
She explains that she contacted the fraudster using the details on their online shop and they
began communicating over WhatsApp message. Initially the fraudster asked Mrs K to pay
using bitcoin, but when she was unable to do so, it was agreed she could pay by bank
transfer.
On 16 October 2019, Mrs K placed an order and made an international transfer of £312.87
to the account details the fraudster gave her. The fraudster gave her a tracking number.
It showed the delivery as being on hold until Mrs K paid customs duties.
Between 18 October 2019 and 9 December 2019 Mrs K made 14 more payments to the
fraudsters same account details. The fraudster told Mrs K that the goods had been
damaged whilst they were in storage. He suggested ordering a further ten more units,
requiring further customs fees. The fraudster then explained that they had made a mistake
and prepared a further twenty units for her. He requested that she paid further customs
duties for the additional units. The fraudster then told Mrs K the shipment was delayed as
the delivery vehicle containing her shipment had been in an accident. He sent her
photographs of the accident scene showing a damaged van.
The fraudster told Mrs K there was a problem with the shipment because she did not have a
conformity certificate. Mrs K was told that it would take 52 days to get a refund. The
fraudster told her that it would be best to go through with the deal else they would both lose
out.
On 1 December 2019, Mrs K contacted Halifax. She was concerned about the ongoing
delays to the shipment. The bank advised her to wait a few more days to see if any items
turned up before formally raising a claim. She went on to make three more payments to the
fraudster.
The fraudster then suggested he would pay from his own pocket to send the shipment using
air freight if Mrs K agreed to purchase five more units. Mrs K explained she had no further
money.
Mrs K now suspected something may not be right. Shed been given a number of different
excuses for the delay in delivery and was yet to receive anything almost two months after
first placing an order. She asked Halifax to step in and help her reverse the transactions.
Halifax contacted the receiving bank straight away to see if any funds could be recovered.
The bank then reviewed the situation. It accepted that it should have done more when it
spoke to Mrs K on the phone. In its final response, Halifax refunded £560 to reimburse the
three payments she went on to make after first speaking to the bank. It also offered her £75
compensation to acknowledge the poor service she received.
Mrs K didnt think the banks offer went far enough. She wanted Halifax to refund all of the
money shed lost, so she referred her complaint to this service for review.
Our Investigator thought Halifax had missed an opportunity to flag the payments from the
sixth transactions onwards. He said the payments Mrs K was making became out of
character and unusual and noted that she had made five international payments adding up
to £1,100 in the space of two weeks. He thought the bank should have made contact with
Mrs K and asked her about the purpose of the payments and why she was making them
before allowing any more to be made. He considered this would have prevented further loss
to the scam. He thought Halifax should refund all of the payments Mrs K made from that
point on (totalling a further £2,360.95) and suggested it should pay an additional £225
compensation to acknowledge the stress and worry shed been caused.
Halifax disagreed. It agreed it was unusual for Mrs K to make international payments but felt
this in and of itself wasnt a reason for the bank to intervene in this instance. It pointed out
the amounts of the transactions Mrs K was making were low. It added that the payments
were not made in quick succession and were spread across a number of weeks. It thought
that when the sixth payment was made, it was actually in keeping with how the account was
being run. It felt there was a balance to be struck as to the extent it should intervene and it
didnt think the sixth payment for £638 was sufficiently large enough.
It also pointed out the information Mrs K had provided showed she thought she was
purchasing 35 units for a fraction of the price so felt what was being offered was too good to
be true. It didnt think what Mrs K was being told about needing to pay duties added up and
suggested that she should have taken more steps to ensure that what she was being asked
to do was genuine.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide.
On 22 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision explaining why I did not intend to 
uphold this complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs K and I can understand why she wants to do all
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose.
But having thought very carefully about Halifaxs actions, I think the position it reached is fair
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So I dont currently think it needs to further reimburse Mrs K or offer any further 
compensation. I can understand this will be a very disappointing outcome for Mrs K, so I will 
explain why.Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Halifax have
recognised Mrs Ks payments as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so,
would it have made a difference to what happened.
I accept Mrs K has been the victim of a scam. Its clear that losing the money has placed her
under a lot of stress and I dont underestimate the difficult time she has had. But that alone
doesnt mean Mrs K must be reimbursed in full by the bank. That all depends on whether the
bank did anything wrong  that is, could it have done any more to prevent the scam from
taking place or intervened so that Mrs K would have realised what was happening and
stopped before sending the money.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Mrs K made the payments,
she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was dealing with a fraudster. But they
were still authorised payments. Mrs K does not dispute that she used her security
credentials to set up and make them. Although Mrs K did not intend for the money to go to a
fraudster, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with
Mrs K or whether it should have done more than it did. Mrs K doesnt dispute she made each
payment herself. So Halifax had an obligation to follow her instructions and make the
payments she requested. But there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably
have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a payment. As Ive explained, I consider
that as a matter of good practice Halifax shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out
of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the first payment Mrs K made was out of character and
unusual enough so that Halifax ought to have intervened. There is a delicate balance to be
struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or
reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. Mrs Ks bank statements in the months
leading up to the payment confirm that making international payments wasnt something she
typically did. Even so, I dont think that alone is enough to say Halifax should have treated
the payment as suspicious. Im not persuaded that Mrs Ks activity that day should have stood out. The first payment she 
made was for £312.87. Its not uncommon for people to make an international payment for a 
specific purpose and on the face of it, theres nothing unusual about this payment. Its not 
larger in value than the transactions Mrs K would otherwise typically make. I dont think 
Halifax acted unreasonably by not making any enquiries about this payment before 
processing it. This means it didnt do anything wrong by following the instructions Mrs K 
gave and sending the payment without further checks.
Ive also gone on to think about the payments Mrs K then went on to make. But I dont think
they were unusual enough that they should have been stopped for further investigation. The
transactions were made over a course of weeks and did not rapidly empty her account or
use all of her available balance at the time they were made. I dont think the amount of the
payments would have made them stand out enough for the bank to have been concerned
that Mrs K might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. The payments appear
unremarkable in amongst Mrs Ks day to day spending and I dont think the bank missed a
clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk.
Ive also thought what Halifax did when Mrs K reported she had been the victim of a scam.
From what I have seen, Halifax contacted the receiving bank quickly when it learned of what
had happened, but sadly no funds remained to be recovered. I am satisfied that Halifax did
what it could to try and recover the money that Mrs K had sent.
I have considerable sympathy for what Mrs K has been through. There is no doubt that she
has been the victim of a cruel scam and that the fraudster had no intention of providing the
goods she had paid for. But I am only able to consider whether Halifax can fairly be held
liable for her loss. After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say Halifax
should have done more than it has already offered to do. As such, it would not be fair to ask
the bank to refund the remainder of the loss.
Looking at everything, I currently think Halifaxs offer in its final response to refund £560 and
pay £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience was an appropriate resolution to this
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have invited further comments and evidence from both parties.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision. It said it agreed with my assessment that the 
payments were not sufficiently out of character to warrant intervention. It did not have any 
further points or information to add. 
Mrs K did not respond and the deadline for her to do so has now passed.
As neither party had anything further to add, I find no reason to depart from the findings set 
out in my provisional decision, which is reproduced above and forms part of this final 
decision. 
For the reasons Ive outlined, I remain satisfied that Halifaxs offer to refund £560 and pay 
£75 compensation for distress and inconvenience was an appropriate resolution to this 
complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman