DRN-4434371
The complaint
Mr W1 complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited failed to renew his multicar 
motor insurance policy for himself and his son, Mr W2. He said this caused him a loss of 
£800 and he wants Hastings to compensate him for this.
 
What happened
Mr W1s multicar policy was due for renewal, and he called Hastings to accept its renewal 
quote. But Hastings didnt complete the renewal and the policy expired. When Mr W1 called 
it, Hastings agreed it had made an error. It was able to offer Mr W1 cover at a similar price. 
But the renewal price for Mr W2, a young driver, had increased significantly. Mr W1 said he 
found cover elsewhere for £800 more than Hastings quote. Hastings apologised for the error 
and offered Mr W1 £50 compensation. But he remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Hastings had tried to help Mr W1 and its offer of £50 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
She thought Mr W1 and Mr W2 had found cover and so they werent unable to use their 
cars. She thought we couldnt tell Hastings what price it should charge as this was set by the 
underwriter. And she thought there were differences between the new cover Mr W2 obtained 
and Hastings cover that made the two hard to compare. 
Mr W1 replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. He said Hastings had agreed to renew at a price and it should be bound by 
this contract. He thought hed been penalised by having to obtain cover at a higher price on 
the day his old policy expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W1 feels frustrated that his multicar policy wasnt renewed as he 
intended. Hastings agrees it made an error in not actioning the renewal. When a business 
makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer. 
Mr W1 said Hastings was able to match the quote for his renewal. So this didnt cause him 
any loss. Mr W1 said he wasnt able to use his car, and this caused him a financial loss. But 
I havent seen any evidence to confirm this. So I dont require Hastings to compensate him 
for this. 
I think there has been some confusion about Hastings quotes for Mr W2. I can see that 
there were differences between the cover provided in Hastings initial quote and Mr W2s 
new policy: he had a different and more expensive car, different No Claims Discount (NCD) 
(3 years on Hastings quote and I year on the new cover), different policy excesses, and a 
different class of use. So I cant say that these two polices are the same. 
But these details were updated on a second quote from Hastings to take into account the 
change of car and a claim in the previous year. And the price for the new policy was then 
£800 more than Hastings previous quote. Hastings sent this quote to Mr W1, but it didnt 
renew the policy. When Mr W1 called it when he noticed that the policy hadnt been 
renewed, it said the policy had expired and it couldnt then honour the previous quote as it 
was based on real-time pricing.
Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors they should 
consider when calculating a risk. Insurers regularly update how they rate the risk of 
consumers. And their rates continually change. So I cant say that Hastings was responsible 
for the increase in price quoted by the insurer. 
From what I can understand, as Mr W2s policy had expired, Hastings had to refer to its 
underwriters to obtain a quote for a new policy. It was a long weekend, so the underwriters 
werent available. So Hastings wasnt then able to offer cover for Mr W2. Mr W1 found a 
policy with an alternative insurer for Mr W2, and this policy was about £800 more expensive 
than Hastings second renewal quote. 
Mr W1 said he was forced to take this quote. But I dont agree that Hastings is responsible 
for his decision as I think Mr W1 could have waited a further day to see if the underwriters 
would offer a new policy for Mr W2. And so I dont think Hastings is responsible for the 
increase in price he had to pay for Mr W2s policy. 
In terms of the impact of Hastings error on Mr W1, I can see that he was caused frustration 
and he had to shop around for alternative cover when he otherwise wouldnt have needed to. 
But I think Hastings apology and £50 compensation for his trouble ad upset is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is because its in keeping with our published guidance 
for when a mistake has caused trouble and upset over a short period. I dont require 
Hastings to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman