DRN-3245880
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim for the 
cancellation of a holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a travel insurance policy as a benefit of their packaged bank account. 
The policy is provided by UKI and covered a number of Mr Hs declared pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs H were due to travel abroad on 26 March 2020, to a country which Ill call A. 
Part of their holiday comprised of a package trip, travelling across A, starting on 4 April 2020. 
On 7 March 2020, concerned about the increasing prevalence of Covid-19 in light of Mr Hs 
vulnerability because of his pre-existing medical conditions, Mr and Mrs H cancelled their 
upcoming holiday. Part of Mr and Mrs Hs decision to cancel when they did also related to 
the booking terms and conditions for their package trip, which meant they received a 50% 
refund from the package provider rather than a lower (or no) refund if theyd waited to cancel 
at a later date. 
Mr and Mrs H made a claim for the remaining 50% cost of the package trip under their 
insurance policy with UKI. After a period of delay, and after re-requesting information from 
Mr and Mrs H which it had already received, UKI said Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered 
under their policy. UKI said this was because the costs they were claiming for related to a 
package trip, so the package provider was liable for giving them a full refund. UKI paid Mr 
and Mrs H £100 compensation for how it had handled their claim. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to UKI before bringing the matter to the attention of our 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she wouldnt be asking UKI 
to reconsider Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the 
market, doesnt cover claims for costs which are recoverable from elsewhere. I understand 
UKI declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim because it said the costs they were claiming for were 
recoverable from the provider of their package trip. However, Mr and Mrs H were the ones 
who cancelled this trip on 7 March 2020  not the package provider. Im not satisfied that the 
provisions of The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 
(PTR) would obligate the package provider to give Mr and Mrs H a full refund in these 
circumstances. 
So, I dont think the reason which UKI gave Mr and Mrs H for declining their claim was fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances. But this doesnt automatically mean Mr and Mrs Hs claim 
is, therefore, payable by UKI. It would be of little benefit to Mr and Mrs H if I were to direct 
UKI to reconsider their claim if I think their claim wouldnt be covered under their policy for 
another reason. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and I dont 
think their claim is covered for a different reason to that given by UKI. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs contract with UKI, at pages 19 and 20 under the 
heading Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure), say UKI will pay for certain 
costs if a policyholder has to cancel a trip for one of the following listed, insured reasons:
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, 
your travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home 
area that you had planned to stay with.
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, your travelling companion or 
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined, 
called for jury service or as a witness in a court and a court official has refused to 
postpone it.
3. Unemployment: 
4. Armed forces and emergency services: 
5. Fire, storm, flood or burglary: 
6. Pet emergency: 
7. Passport or visa: 
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened 
your  current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your  
current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.
11. Vehicle accident or breakdown: ....
12. Pregnancy: 
13. Vaccinations: While I can understand why Mr and Mrs H made the decision to cancel their trip on 7 March 
2020, they didnt do so for any of the above listed, insured reasons. Furthermore, 
cancellation because the policyholder doesnt want to travel is specifically excluded under 
this section of the policy. 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs H had concerns about Mr Hs health, and theyve provided 
evidence that Mr H has a weakened immune system and was/is, therefore, more likely to 
become severely ill from Covid-19. However, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr Hs 
illnesses were the reason he couldnt travel, or that Mr H was required to quarantine at the 
time the holiday was cancelled (which was, I note, before Covid-19 was declared a 
pandemic by the World Health Organisation on 11 March 2020).
And, at the time the holiday was cancelled, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) wasnt 
yet advising against all but essential travel to A, nor had the authorities in A enforced any 
wide-ranging restrictions on movement which wouldve meant Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be 
able to use their pre-booked accommodation. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs Hs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
their policy with UKI. 
Ive also considered whether I think there are any fair and reasonable grounds upon which I 
could ask UKI to accept Mr and Mrs Hs claim regardless, outside of a strict interpretation of 
the policy wording. But I dont think there are. 
Mr and Mrs H feel they saved UKI money by cancelling the trip when they did. While I can 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs point of view, I dont think I can fairly say this is the case. 
Although the FCDO did subsequently advise against all but essential travel to A before Mr 
and Mrs Hs intended departure date, if Mr and Mrs H had waited to cancel their trip until 
closer to the time of their departure (for example, until the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to A and/or more wide-spread restrictions on movement were imposed by 
the government in A) it seems likely that the package provider would have been forced to 
cancel the trip. This would have entitled Mr and Mrs H to a full refund from the package 
provider under the PTR. In that scenario, UKI would have had no liability at all for the claim. 
So, I think Mr and Mrs H potentially disadvantaged UKI by cancelling the holiday when they 
did. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, and I appreciate they paid a considerable amount of 
money for their trip, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
their policy. And, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
UKI to accept their claim. 
I think its clear UKI didnt handle this claim as it should have, and UKI has acknowledged 
this. It would have undoubtedly been more helpful if UKI had clearly set out the correct 
reason why Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered under their policy from the outset. Ive also 
taken into account UKIs delays in dealing with the matter. Overall, I think UKIs payment of 
£100 fairly compensates Mr and Mrs H for the impact of UKIs actions on them. So, I wont 
be directing UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman