DRN-2558755
The complaint
 Mr E says CMC Markets UK plc (CMC) failed to safeguard his trading account, leading to a 
fraudsters unauthorised access into, and fraudulent withdrawal of £50,000 from, the account 
on 20 May 2019.
What happened
 CMC investigated the events leading to, and including, the withdrawal on 20 May. Based on 
its findings, a summary of key events is as follows:
17 May  CMC received a request to reset Mr Es trading account password. This 
happened at 03:01 and it sent, to his registered email address, a link to do so. At 
15:08 it received an email from the same address with a request to register new bank 
account details for the trading account. It executed the request  based on 
verification of Mr Es name on the bank statement for the new bank account that was 
submitted  and it says it promptly thereafter sent emails to Mr E and to his 
Introducing Broker (IB) confirming registration of the new bank account details unto 
the trading account. Mr E and the IB have both confirmed that neither received this 
email.
20 May  At 11:48 the request to withdraw £50,000 (for remittance to the new bank 
account) was made, and CMC executed this on the same day.
21 May  Mr E and the IB both reported, to CMC, the unauthorised withdrawal of 
£50,000 from the trading account. 
CMC does not dispute that the withdrawal was fraudulent and that it was made without      
Mr Es knowledge. However, it disputes responsibility for his loss. It says his email account 
appears to have been compromised on (or around) 17 May, hence the opportunity for the 
fraudster(s) to request the change of password and then to access and use the link sent to 
the email account to complete the password reset. It also says it complied with its due 
processes for addressing password resetting requests and for the withdrawal request. As 
part of its concluding remarks in its final response to Mr Es complaint, CMC said  
CMC is not obliged to compensate you. For ease of reference, we provide a link to our CFD 
Terms of Business (January 2018 ), which you agreed to be bound by when you opened 
your CMC Account  In accordance with clause 3.5.1 of those Terms of Business, we are 
entitled to treat any activity on your CMC Account as having been authorised by you. We are 
also entitled to hold you liable for such activity up to the point that you notify us that 
someone else has accessed your CMC Account without your permission. In the absence of 
such notification, we were entitled to rely on the request to register the bank details that were 
sent from your registered email address on 17/05/2019 and to action the request made to 
withdraw funds from your CMC Account on 20/05/2019.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and disagreed with CMCs position. He 
concluded that the complaint should be upheld and he found, mainly, as follows:
He acknowledged the terms about CMCs exclusion of liability for a clients loss, but 
he also quoted the following from its terms  You can withdraw funds from your 
account online by clicking on the Payments icon and then selecting the 
Withdrawals tab. Alternatively, you can use chat (Live help) or call our client 
management team for assistance. Please be aware that for your protection, we may 
request additional information and/or proof of identity before processing the 
withdrawal request. We do not transfer funds to a third-party account so please 
ensure that the bank account is in your name. He emphasised the provision to 
request additional information and/or proof of identity before executing a withdrawal.
He also referred to the regulators Systems and Controls rule at SYSC 3.2.6, which 
states the requirement (with guidance) that firms must have in place systems and 
controls for countering the risk of financial crime; to the code of practice from the 
British Standards Institution (BSI) which states something similar and which refers to 
applying identity checks in response to requests to change personal or account 
details and in response to payment requests; and to examples from the BSI of 
suspicious activity.
The investigator considered that the events leading to the fraudulent withdrawal from 
Mr Es trading account  that is, the reset request, new bank account registration and 
withdrawal request happening in close proximity, and the account logins taking place 
from different devices and locations  were comparable to the BSIs examples of 
suspicious activity and that they ought reasonably to have been indicators for CMC to 
note. He also considered that CMC ought reasonably to have conducted further 
checks and identity checks for the same reason(s). He looked into CMCs claim 
about email notices sent to Mr E and the IB on 17 May. Both confirmed that they 
received no such email/notice.  
He concluded that the fraud would probably have been avoided, but for CMCs failure 
to note the suspicious activity and failure to conduct additional checks, so the 
complaint should be upheld and CMC should cover Mr Es £50,000 loss.
Mr E welcomed this outcome, but CMC did not. It disputed the investigators findings, it did 
not consider that the events were as close as he concluded, it did not agree that there were 
indicators of suspicious activity and it maintained its position about the emailed notices sent 
to Mr E (and the IB). The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators for broadly the 
same reasons he expressed. I endorse his findings, which were well reasoned, detailed and 
clearly set out within his view. For these reasons, and because both parties appear to 
understand his findings, I do not repeat those details. However, both parties are entitled to a 
reasoned outcome in this decision, so I provide one below  beginning with a summary of 
the relevant regulatory context.
Before doing so, I should note that this decision (above and below) refers to the £50,000 
withdrawal from Mr Es trading account as a fraud and a fraudulent event unknown and unrelated to him. This is done because the parties agree the same and there is no dispute 
about it. For the sake of clarity, it is not done because of any finding of fraud in criminal law. 
Such a finding is distinctly beyond this services remit.
Regulatory Context
Article 40 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the RAO) defines the regulated activity of Safeguarding and Administering Investments. 
The regulators Handbook assists further by summarising the definition as follows:
 the safeguarding of assets belonging to another and the administration of those assets 
 
Guidance, at PERG 2.7.9 G of the regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual, says 
safeguarding is about a firms role as custodian of the customers property  such property 
including money. This covers the £50,000 money fraudulently withdrawn from Mr Es 
account. 
The safeguarding responsibility also made the following Principles  from the regulators 
Handbook  relevant:
Principle 2  a firms duty to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  a firms duty to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  a firms duty to pay regard to the interests of its customers. 
Principle 10  a firms duty to arrange adequate protection for its clients assets when 
it is responsible for them. 
In addition, I echo the investigators reference to, and quotation of, SYSC 3.2.6. As stated 
above, this provides that firms must have in place systems and controls for countering the 
risk of financial crime. 
Findings
CMCs key failing was its omission of a process, based on personal contact, that 
verified/checked Mr Es identity at the point of the new bank account registration and/or, at 
the very least and latest, at the point of the withdrawal request. 
I can understand why it could have considered that such a check was not necessary when 
treating the password reset request. It reasonably sent the link to Mr Es email account, it did 
not know the email account had been compromised and it expected that account to be 
accessible only by him. 
However, the two events that followed were events inherently vulnerable to fraud and, as a 
regulated firm operating in the financial services sector, CMC ought reasonably to have 
known this. One of the overarching purposes of regulation is to achieve protection for 
customers  including protection from fraud. Indeed, it is CMCs implicit evidence that it was 
aware of such vulnerability, hence its reference to having a check  for the new bank 
account registration  mainly based on verifying a statement from the new bank account and 
checking that it was in Mr Es name. Mr E has explained how this should have been an 
additional indicator to CMC because he has a jointly named bank account and has no 
account solely in his name. I understand his point, but I am not satisfied that CMC should have known this. 
However, I am satisfied that CMC limited its checks unreasonably at the point of registering 
the new bank account. It goes without saying that registration of a new bank account within a 
trading account automatically creates access to money within the trading account. By 
creating such access without speaking, even briefly, to Mr E and to do so in the age of 
sophisticated online and electronic fraudulent techniques, CMC fell short of discharging the 
safeguarding, SYSC and Principles based responsibilities it was required to discharge in this 
event. 
I am not persuaded that there was any value in emailing Mr E after the new bank account 
registration request had been granted. In the alternative, and because no personal contact 
had previously been made with him, I consider that there could have been some value in 
such notification if it required personal contact from Mr E in order for him to confirm (or 
reconfirm) agreement with the registration  but this did not happen. Furthermore, available 
evidence appears to call into question CMCs claim about the email notice. Both Mr E and 
the IB have confirmed to this service that no such email was ever received. 
I consider that verification based on personal contact at the point of the new bank account 
registration would have defeated the fraud attempt before the fraud was committed, as Mr E 
would have confirmed that neither the new bank account nor the registration request was 
his.
CMC compounded the above failing by, seemingly, applying no meaningful safeguarding 
checks at the point the £50,000 was withdrawn. Having created new access to money in the 
trading account, with inadequate checks, it was a significant failure to remit a considerable 
sum like £50,000 without a basic personal contact verification. It is not uncommon for firms 
in the investment and trading sector  and even banks in the retail banking sector  to apply 
telephone verification, as a minimum, in such withdrawal related circumstances. I 
acknowledge that CMC is not bound by other firms practices and I do not suggest that it 
should be, but I also consider that such minimum telephone verification is an objectively 
credible form of personal contact verification that CMC could and should have used.
Had telephone verification been applied by CMC before allowing the withdrawal, the 
attempted fraud would have been detected and, again, defeated before the fraud was 
committed. Mr E would have confirmed that he did not make the withdrawal request. Upon 
such confirmation, no withdrawal would have happened. I also consider that CMC should 
have been more compelled to conduct such verification at this point given its knowledge at 
the time that the withdrawal was the first being remitted to the new bank account and that it 
had not conducted any personal contact verification with Mr E about the new bank account.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
Putting things right
 Fair compensation for Mr E is to put him back into the position he would be in if CMC had 
taken steps to prevent the preventable fraud, as it could and should have done. In 
straightforward terms, this means compensating Mr E for his loss of £50,000. There is no 
dispute that this was the sum fraudulently withdrawn from the cash in his trading account, so 
this is the lost sum he is entitled to compensation for.
I order CMC to pay Mr E £50,000 in compensation for his loss. I also order CMC to pay Mr E 
interest on this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if it does not pay the compensation to him within 28 days of being 
informed about his acceptance of this decision. This interest award is to compensate Mr E if 
CMC unduly delays in paying him redress.
I have considered the idea of also applying interest from 20 May 2019, when Mr Es 
fraudulent loss happened. I am not persuaded such an award will be fair. The fraudulent 
withdrawal was made from an active trading account, so it cannot be said with certainty (or 
probability) that, but for the fraud, the £50,000 would have remained untouched and would 
have been earning interest to date. Instead, it is arguable that it could or would have been 
traded, with different outcomes, at a point in time. As I cannot determine, on balance, what 
would have happened with this sum from 20 May 2019 onwards, I do not consider that I 
have a basis to award interest from that date.
My final decision
  For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint. I order CMC Markets UK plc to 
pay him compensation as set out above, and to give him a simple and clear calculation of 
the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman