DRN-3539232
The complaint
Mr R complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided him with loans that he couldnt afford to 
repay. He says the agent inflated his weekly income by including money he received from 
over time. 
What happened
Mr R took seven loans between November 2019 and June 2021. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans, from Morses in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 28/11/2019 29/07/2020 34 £15.00
2 £300.00 10/02/2020 16/10/2020 34 £15.00
3 £300.00 29/07/2020 15/02/2021 34 £15.00
4 £500.00 16/10/2020 29/05/2021 34 £25.00
5 £500.00 03/12/2020 outstanding 53 £17.50
6 £900.00 15/02/2021 outstanding 53 £31.50
7 £800.00 01/06/2021 outstanding 52 £30.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan. Where loans overlapped the 
cost per week would be more. For example, when loans 1 and 2 overlapped Mr Rs weekly 
repayment to Morses was £30.
Morses considered Mr Rs and concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved loans 1  
4. However, Morses did conclude that it ought to have done further checks before approving 
loans 5  7 and so upheld his complaint about these loans. 
Morses explained it would remove any outstanding interest from the amount Mr R owed it. 
Taking into account the repayments Mr R had made towards these loans it still left a capital 
amount of £1,183.55 which needed to be repaid. It also offered to remove these loans from 
Mr Rs credit file. 
Morses also said that this offer  to reduce Mr Rs balance was in full and final settlement of 
the whole complaint. Mr R contacted Morses and he accepted the offer. However, Mr R says 
the following day, after he accepted the offer, he contacted Morses to retract it. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Morses initially said the complaint wasnt one that could be considered because Mr R had 
accepted the offer in full and final settlement of the complaint. An adjudicator considered this 
and initially agreed with Morses conclusions. 
However, following this assessment the adjudicator asked for further information from 
Morses about Mr Rs retraction of the offer. At this point, Morses accepted that Mr R had 
called to retract but he wasnt told that the offer had already been applied to his balance. 
Morses decided, at this point that it was happy for the Financial Ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
Later, Morses reiterated that the offer made in the final response letter was no longer valid 
as it had already been carried out. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. Firstly, she said she wouldnt look at loans 
5  7 because the offer Morses had already paid was in line with the Financial 
Ombudsmans guidelines. 
The adjudicator then considered loans 1-4 and she concluded Morses had made a 
reasonable decision to provide these loans. So, she didnt uphold this part of the complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr R didnt agree with the outcome. He said that loans 1  4 werent affordable for him. He 
also says he had previously provided a copy of a contract which showed he was only due to 
work 16 hours per week and he was only accepted for these loans because the agent 
included his overtime payments.  
These comments didnt change the adjudicators mind about the case so as no agreement 
had been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Rs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R.Morses was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Firstly, I want to be clear that I am not considering loans 5  7 because Morses has made an 
offer that has been accepted and paid. Instead this decision will focus on whether Morses 
needs to pay any further compensation to Mr R in relation to loans 1  4. 
Loan 1
This was Mr Rs first loan with Morses. Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of 
his income and expenditure. Morses recorded Mr Rs income as being £240 per week with 
outgoings of £184. Morses was therefore aware that he had around £56 per week in which 
to make the weekly loan payment of £15. 
It also appears, from the information that Morses has provided, that the income was 
independently checked  through some sort of credit check verification process. 
Overall, based on the information that Morses recorded it wouldve reasonably concluded 
that Mr R could afford the loan repayment. 
Morses may also have carried out a credit search before this first loan was provided as I 
understand that it was part of its process. But the results havent been sent to us and it has 
said that all the information it has about Mr Rs complaint has been provided. 
So, I dont know exactly what it saw or even if a credit check was carried out. It is worth 
saying, that there is no regulatory requirement for a credit search to be carried out before a 
loan is approved. 
However, Mr R has provided some limited screen shots from his credit file, which I have 
considered. I can see that one of the records defaulted in the November 2019, so the month 
this loan was advanced. However, due to reporting delays which means it couldve taken up 
to six weeks for the default to show on the credit file, I cant be confident Morses wouldve 
been aware of the default at the time it advanced this loan. 
So, while there does appear to have been some adverse information reported on Mr Rs 
credit report, I dont think Morses wouldve likely known about the default and therefore 
wouldnt have had a reason to have carried out further checks or to have declined this 
application for credit. 
Ive thought about what Mr R says about his actual income at the time  that being he had a 
16 hour a week contract and he has provided us with screen shots of his contract to support 
this. However, the front page of the first screen shot says it was valid from April 2020, which is 
several months after this loan was granted, so I cant be sure this was the situation that Mr R 
found himself in November 2019. 
There is also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr R
had provided.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
Morses to have relied on the information Mr R provided along with the income and
expenditure figures to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he 
was committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint about 
this loan.
Loans 2  4
For these loans it seems Morses carried out the same sort of checks as it had done for the 
first loan. 
It recorded Mr Rs income as being between £282 and £350 per week and again, Morses 
says it verified his income through a credit reference agency.
Mr Rs weekly outgoings have been recorded as being between £137 and £249 per week. 
The largest weekly repayment Mr R was due to make to Morses for these loans was when 
loans 3 and 4 were outstanding and he was due to pay £40. But even taking into account 
that repayment Morses, based on the information provided wouldve likely thought Mr R 
could afford his loan repayments. 
It is worth saying, that given the contract of employment Mr R has provided shows that from 
April 2020 he was only contracted to work 16 hours per week (only affecting loans 3 and 4). 
Although the contract does open the possibility that Mr R may be able to work further hours 
and overtime. 
Indeed, from what Mr R says that the agent included overtime as part of his weekly income. 
But no further information has been provided about the overtime for example how frequent it 
was and the effect of that overtime on Mr Rs basic pay. 
I dont have evidence either from Morses or Mr R of his actual payslips, but if Mr R was 
doing overtime on a regular basis then Id be minded to think it may have been reasonable 
for this to be included as part of Mr Rs income. So the fact that as Mr R says, his overtime 
was included doesnt automatically mean that Morses couldnt rely on it when thinking about 
his weekly income.  
It was also still quite early on the lending relationship and there doesnt appear to have been 
any obvious repayments problems with the way that Mr R had repaid his loans up to this 
point and time. I also, dont yet think it had reached the point where Morses needed to start 
verifying the information that was provided or for Morses to have investigated his 
circumstances in more detail  such as asking for bank statements, for example.  
I do accept, given the increase in Mr Rs income as well as his expenditure that for later and 
future loans that Morses may have wanted to have verified the information that was 
recorded. However, as Ive said above, Morses appear to have already accepted this as it 
offered to put things right for Mr R for loans 5  7 and I understand that it has already carried 
out these actions. If it hasnt then it should arrange to do so. I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by the outcome Ive reached for loans 1- 4. But I do 
hope my explanation has been helpful for him to understand why, in this case I cant uphold 
the complaint about his first four loans.  
An outstanding capital amount does remain due to Morses so Mr R may wish to contact it to 
discuss a way forward to repay what is owed. But Id remind Morses of its obligation to treat 
Mr R fairly and with forbearance  if necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint and 
Morses Club PLC doesnt have to any anything beyond what it has already done and what 
was outlined in the final response letter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman