DRN-3818849
The complaint
Mr T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his accounts and misinformed 
him about which ones were being closed. 
Mr T says this caused him substantive distress and inconvenience, and financial loss for 
which he wants compensation.  
What happened
This decision only deals with accounts held in Mr Ts sole name. The joint account complaint 
is being dealt with under a separate reference number at this service. 
In January 2021, Barclays sent a letter to Mr T which explained it had taken the decision to 
close his account(s) and facilities on 22/3/2021. Mr T held over 12 accounts with Barclays 
and wasnt sure which accounts it was closing. 
Mr T called Barclays on several occasions to find out which accounts were being closed. He 
was principally concerned about his sole current account which he used to make over thirty 
direct debit and standing order payments from. 
When speaking to one of Barclays agents in the premier accounts team about his sole 
current account, he was told only his joint account with his wife was being closed. Mr T says 
he didnt use this account much  and suspected it was being closed as it wasnt receiving 
regular payments into it. 
Later in March 2021, after speaking to Barclays, he was told all his accounts  not just the 
joint account  were closed. Unhappy with what had happened, and the wrong information 
he was given about which accounts were being closed, Mr T complained. 
Mr T was told the accounts couldnt be reopened, but Barclays accepted its agent had made 
a mistake in telling him only his joint account would be closed. Mr T says he asked for 
£10,000 in compensation for being left without a current account and the trouble and distress 
this caused. Barclays offered Mr T £300 compensation  which he did not accept as a 
resolution to his complaint. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. In addition, he argued that funds held in several 
of his accounts were being utilised to offset against his Barclays mortgage. And because of 
being given the incorrect information, hes missed out on not being able to utilise those funds 
to offset against his mortgage. 
Mr T has a Mortgage Current Account (MCA) and a Mortgage account with Barclays and 
was utilising his savings and other funds to offset, and thereby make savings, on any interest 
he had to pay. Both of Mr Ts mortgage accounts, and another savings reserve account 
labelled School Fees remain open - they were not closed by Barclays. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint. In summary they found: 
- Barclays acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the account, when 
closing Mr Ts accounts
- Barclays did give appropriate notice of closure, but this was effectively rescinded 
when its agent told Mr T only his joint account was being closed. So, because of 
Barclays error, Mr T wasnt given notice of closure 
- Mr T believes this error has led to him missing out on savings due to not being able 
to offset his funds against the mortgage. But Mr T would only benefit from savings if 
he was in a credit balance  which he wasnt
- So Mr T wouldnt have made a saving by offsetting as the MCA was in a debit, and 
not a credit, balance 
- Barclays offer of £300 compensation for its error was fair given Mr T didnt miss any 
of his regular direct debit or standing order payments 
Mr T did not agree with what our Investigator said about any financial losses in relation to his 
offset mortgage. He says he held plenty of funds in other accounts that would have offset 
against the mortgage and saved him on interest payments. He also did not feel £300 was 
fair compensation for the upset and trouble Barclays actions caused him.  
Ad Mr T didnt agree with what our Investigator said, his complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. My decision will disappoint 
Mr T, so Ill explain why. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts, which Barclays and Mr T had to comply with, say 
it could close the accounts by giving at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the accounts in the way that it has done. I note Mr T would like to know why Barclays 
took this decision. But neither Barclays, nor I, are under any obligation, that Im aware of, to 
do so. 
As I said above, Barclays had written to Mr T to explain its actions in January 2021. And in 
doing so signposted him to the relevant part of its terms and conditions it was exercising this 
action under  section 11 of its agreement for personal customers. 
This brings me onto the crux of Mr Ts complaint. That is, he was left unsure by Barclays 
notice of closure letter as to which of his numerous accounts were being closed. And 
because of the erroneous information he was given about this, he suffered financial loss, 
and avoidable trouble and distress.  
Barclays has sent me several of its call recordings of Mr T speaking to its members of staff about the matter. Id like to assure Mr T that Ive listened to them carefully. And having done 
so, Im satisfied he was genuinely unsure about which accounts were closing. This is 
understandable given Barclays letter does not list this out. Also, as Ive said above, he had 
legitimate reason to believe it was only his joint account held with his wife that was being 
closed  given it wasnt receiving regular payments. 
Its clear Mr T was not getting clear answers from many of Barclays staff as to which 
accounts were being closed. But he was then later told by the team that handled his current 
account, that it was only his joint account that was being closed  and not any of the others. 
Barclays accept its staff made an error here. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Mr T to rely 
on this erroneous information - especially as Im persuaded, he was legitimately unsure what 
accounts were being closed. 
So, on one hand Im satisfied Barclays applied its terms fairly by closing the accounts, but 
then mistakenly told Mr T only his joint account was being closed. Having given this careful 
thought, Im persuaded Barclays error here made its two months notice of closure letter 
void. 
That means Mr T wasnt given effective notice that pretty much all his accounts were being 
closed. This no doubt would have caused him distress as he would have worried about his 
substantive financial commitments being met by regular direct debit and standing order 
mandates. Fortunately, Mr T was able to set-up new payments from another banks account 
without detriment to himself. Because of this I dont need to consider any financial loss  or 
damage to his credit file. 
But Mr T says he suffered financial losses as the closure of his accounts meant he couldnt 
use those funds to offset against his mortgage. As above, our Investigator said Mr T would 
only benefit from savings if he was in a credit balance  which he wasnt. So Mr T wouldnt 
have made any saving by offsetting as the MCA was in a debit balance. 
Barclays have sent me several documents, including the terms of the Offset mortgage 
account. These explain how the Offset mortgage scheme operated. Ive also been given the 
statements from January 2021 till April 2021 for the MCA and Offset mortgage.    
Barclays say that on the date the notice of closure was issued, January 2021, Mr T had a 
debit balance on his MCA just slightly short of £200,000.  And that in March 2021, it was in a 
similar debit balance - slightly short of £200,000. Because Mr T was in a debit balance, 
Barclays say he would not have made any savings on his mortgage. They add Mr T would 
only benefit from savings when the accounts are in a credit balance  as explained in the 
Offset booklet - which it attached. 
Barclays went onto say the only benefit a customer gets while their MCA is in debit, and 
offset to their mortgage, is that a different interest rate would be charged on the debit 
balance. 
Having read the information about the Offset mortgage, I do think having all the accounts 
open - of which the funds were previously being utilised to offset the mortgage - would have 
saved Mr T money. Thats because those accounts were in credit  and in line with what it 
says in the Offset booklet about The advantages of using the Mortgage Current Account, 
namely: Any credit balance in the account offsets the mortgage balance, just liked the linked 
savings. Mr T did have linked savings accounts in credit.  
But having said that, Im persuaded Mr T wasnt left without the opportunity to use his funds 
to offset against the mortgage and continue to make the saving he otherwise would have. Thats because Mr Ts MCA, and another of his savings account, which he personally likely 
labelled School Fees, remained open. Ive seen on the Offset statement, that both these 
accounts, in addition to the mortgage, were open in April 2021. Thats after the other 
accounts were closed. 
Mr T was checking his online banking, and still receiving statements for the Offset mortgage 
and MCA. So he would have known he couldve still used his funds to offset. Additionally, 
and quite importantly, the statements show that a significant proportion of the funds utilised 
for offsetting was done by the account labelled School Fees. As Ive said, this account 
wasnt closed in March 2021  and was still open in July 2022 based on the statement Mr T 
sent us. 
So taken together, Im persuaded Mr T wasnt deprived of the opportunity to use his 
mortgage offsetting facility. As he most likely didnt have to suffer a lost opportunity to save 
on his mortgage interest by using the MCA and other account that remained open. And most 
of the value of funds that were being used at the time of the account closures remained with 
Barclays. 
Because of this I wont be awarding Mr T any compensation for financial loss. Its also worth 
noting that if Mr T still thinks hes lost out, Barclays didnt do anything wrong when closing 
his accounts. So if Mr T thinks hes now prevented from using funds to offset against his 
mortgage through the accounts he used before, theyve been closed fairly.  
Barclays made Mr T an offer of £300 as compensation for the errors it made. When weighing 
up what I think is fair compensation for any trouble and upset Mr T was caused, I must keep 
in my mind the accounts that were closed, were done so fairly.  
So what I must focus on here is the trouble and upset Mr T was caused by finding out in late 
March 2021 that most of his accounts had been closed  not just the joint one which he was 
led to believe. And therefore the distress this likely caused him, and the inconvenience of 
having to sort out his banking affairs, including resetting some 30 or more payments 
instructions. I also need to consider the time he lost speaking to Barclays without getting any 
meaningful help. 
Having taken all the above into account, Im persuaded Barclays error caused Mr T 
inconvenience likely lasting a few weeks to sort out alternative banking arrangements. And 
this would have caused considerable upset to him. 
Having carefully considered what I think is fair compensation, Im persuaded £300 is enough 
in the circumstances of this complaint. So Barclays should pay Mr T £300 for the trouble and 
upset it caused him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr T 
£300 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman