DRN-1783923
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that QIC Europe Limited mishandled their claim on their home and 
home emergency insurance.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont name any other 
parties.
Where the complaint is about a claim under an insurance policy, we deal with it as a 
complaint against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim.
For the year from 18 October 2017 Mr and Mrs M had insurance branded with the name of 
an insurance intermediary. The insurance included home emergency insurance.
The insurance also included home buildings and contents insurance under which QIC was 
the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to QIC I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold QIC responsible for their actions.
In November 2017, Mrs M was unable to open her front door. She contacted QIC for help. A 
contractor visited and changed the lock on the door. QIC declined to pay and in early 2018 
the contractor sent Mrs M an invoice for £330.94.
Mr and Mrs M didnt pay the invoice. They again contacted QIC who, on about 26 April 2018, 
offered to pay the £330.94 minus a £250.00 policy excess  a net sum of £80.94. 
On 29 April 2019 the contractor obtained a court judgment directing Mrs M to pay the invoice 
and costs. 
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us in October 2019. QIC issued its final response 
letter later that month reiterating that it declined the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that QIC 
had acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr M says, in summary, that:
His wife and children were locked in a house with no means of escape from a fire.
The contractors harassed Mrs M for payment. 
He told QIC he wasnt happy to pay the contractor any money at all. 
He offered to pay the excess. 
He never received any further information on how to pay.
He and Mrs M have incurred court costs of about £1,000.00. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home Emergency Insurance Policy
Mr M has sent us a copy of the intermediarys letter in 2017 confirming the purchase of the 
home emergency policy. He has also sent us the intermediarys home emergency policy 
terms dated 2015. I find it likely that the 2015 terms applied to the 2017 policy.
The home emergency policy terms say that an insurance company other than QIC was 
responsible for dealing with claims. We have dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint as against 
QIC.
Mr and Mrs M are free to pursue a complaint against the other insurance company. But  
before they do so  they should note that the home emergency insurance only covers an 
emergency (as defined in the policy terms) in connection with plumbing and drainage or 
their primary heating system  not a door lock. 
Home Insurance Policy
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr and Mrs M had buildings and contents cover with 
additional accidental damage cover. So the policy terms gave them cover for accidental 
damage to locks on external doors. Each such claim was subject to a £250.00 excess.
The policy excluded accidental damage that happened gradually or normal wear and tear or 
damage by mechanical failure.
From the recordings of the first and second call on the day of the incident, I accept that QIC 
didnt say it wouldnt cover the claim. But QIC did say that it wouldnt be able to confirm that 
evening whether the claim was covered. 
QIC said that if it sent someone and the claim wasnt covered, Mrs M would be liable to pay 
the costs. She decided to proceed on that basis.
From what Ive seen and heard Im not persuaded that the policy covered the failure of Mr 
and Mrs Ms lock. I find it more likely that it was a mechanical failure caused by wear and 
tear. So I dont hold QIC responsible for the fact that the contractor chased her for payment.
On 26 April 2018 QIC offered to pay the amount of the invoice less the excess. And from the 
call recording I find that Mr M was adamant that he wouldnt pay the balance to the 
contractor.
I accept that QIC shouldve got back to him about the suggestion that he would pay the 
balance to QIC so it could pay the invoice. But QIC was only offering £80.94 and Mr and Mrs 
M knew that they were expected to pay the £250.00 - either to the contractor or to QIC.
And Mr M had made it clear that they didnt see why they should pay anything. From a call 
recording in July 2018, I find that Mrs M just said she had consulted a lawyer.
I consider that she and her lawyer had ample opportunity to arrange payment. The 
contractor didnt issue court proceedings against Mrs M until March 2019. So I dont hold 
QIC responsible for the court costs for which she became liable.
Overall, I conclude that QIC did no less than the policy required. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct QIC to do any more in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont direct QIC Europe Limited to 
do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman