DRN-3761833
The complaint
Miss E is a sole trader. She complains that Santander UK Plc treated her unfairly and acted
in a discriminatory way when it declined her Bounce Back Loan application.
Miss E is represented by Ms W, however, for ease Ill refer to Miss E throughout the
decision.
What happened
Miss E held a personal bank account with Santander, which she also used for her business.
In May 2020, Miss E applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). Santander
reviewed the application but said it needed more information from Miss E. As Miss E didnt
respond within the timeframe the bank provided, the application was cancelled in June.
In August, Miss E applied again for a BBL. Santander declined the application as Miss E
works as an escort. The bank has chosen not to provide banking facilities to the adult
entertainment sector under its Sensitive Sectors Policy (the Policy). Santander also
considered there were discrepancies in the information Miss E provided about her turnover
and business start date.
Santanders general policy not to provide financial products and/or services to clients in the
adult entertainment industry arises from the promotion of gender inequality, ease of access
to pornography, human trafficking, forced and child labour, and links to prostitution, drugs,
crime and money laundering risk. The policy provides for dispensations and waivers on a
case by case basis where the bank is satisfied that the customer is not at risk of harm.
In January 2021, Miss E contacted Santander for an update on her application as she hadnt
received the banks decision. On receiving their response, Miss E complained as she
thought the bank had treated her unfairly and been discriminatory.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it made the commercial decision not to
support certain industries so it wouldnt be changing its decision to decline her application.
Miss E still didnt think Santander had acted fairly and thought the banks policy was
discriminating against sex workers. So she brought her complaint to the
attention of various third parties including her MP and the All-Party Parliamentary Group on
Fair Business Banking (APPG). Miss E also asked this service to look into her complaint.
As part of her complaint, her representative provided us with detailed submissions about
why they say Santander discriminated against her, both generally and specifically under the
Equality Act 2010.
Miss E continued to contact Santander over the next few months about its decision. The
bank reviewed her application and after it had the opportunity to take into account and
understand Miss Es individual circumstances, it reversed its original decision and provided
her with a loan of £3,000 in April 2021. However Miss E still felt the bank hadnt acted fairly.
Our Investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said, in summary, that:
There was no error on Santanders part in cancelling the initial application, as 
Santander hadnt received the information it had requested from Miss E.
Santanders decision to decline Miss Es subsequent application was made in line 
with its policy to automatically decline requests from businesses operating in certain 
industries. She thought it was up to Santander to decide which industries it wished to 
lend to and didnt think the policy itself was unreasonable. And she thought it had 
been reasonable for Santander to adopt a level of automation as lenders had to 
facilitate a fast application process for BBLs. The possible detriment of this was also 
offset by the applicants right to appeal and have the case reviewed manually, which 
Miss E had utilised.
There was, though, a delay in Santander reviewing Miss Es application in light of her 
appeal. Miss E had contacted the bank in January, but the bank didnt start the 
review until March, despite having all the information it needed. So she thought 
Miss E ought to have received the loan sooner than she did and that this had caused 
her inconvenience in having to chase things up on a number of occasions and 
caused her additional stress during an already difficult time. She recommended that 
Santander pay Miss E £300 compensation for this.
Santander accepted our Investigators view, but Miss E didnt. She said, in summary, that:
She met the banks published eligibility criteria for the loan, and it was unfair that her 
application had been rejected due to an unpublished, blanket policy that 
discriminated against the industry she worked in. The bank had subsequently 
suggested, on occasion, that the policy contained an element of discretion which she 
didnt believe to have been the case. And as she couldnt see that the bank had 
taken into account any new evidence when reconsidering the application, she 
thought its reason(s) for approving it were likely to be something other than an 
assessment of her circumstances (such as the pressure put on the bank by the 
organisations that made representations on her behalf).
She only received the loan eight months after applying, and only after protracted 
correspondence from her and organisations acting on her behalf. Shed been caused 
financial difficulty because Santander took so long to agree her application that her 
health and ability to return to work had been impacted. The distress and anxiety 
shed suffered had also been exacerbated by feeling discriminated against. And she 
estimated that shed spent 300 hours on dealing with the matter. So, she didnt think 
the compensation recommended was sufficient and thought that £10,000 would be 
appropriate.
Shed lost the opportunity to apply for further borrowing through a BBL top-up loan as 
the deadline for applications had passed by the time, she received the BBL.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 14 June 2022. I said the following:
Miss E and Santander have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint.
Ive taken on board all their points  although Im not going to respond to each point
individually. Instead Ill set out what I consider to be the key points in how Ive
reached my decision.
As our Investigator has already mentioned in her opinion, its not in the remit of this
service to look at the impact of a financial business decision on an industry sector.We are also unable to make changes to legislation such as the Equality Act 2010 as
we dont have the legal authority to do this; only a court of law can make changes to
a piece of legislation. So I wont be commenting on the broader issues that Miss E
has raised in this regard.
As a service, we are also unable to make direct findings about whether something
amounts to discrimination or indirect discrimination, as per the categorisations within
the Equality Act 2010. So I wont be responding to Miss Es points about this in my
decision.
Our powers come from the DISP rules which only allow us to consider individual
complaints, and whether or not a business has behaved in a fair and reasonable
way. We cannot make findings on whether or not a law has been broken, although
we do take all relevant legislation and regulations into consideration when deciding
whether or not a business has behaved reasonably. Therefore, my decision will focus
solely whether or not Santander acted reasonably when it processed Miss Es
application, and if it didnt, what impact this had on Miss E.
As Miss E successfully obtained the loan in the end, the issue for me to consider is
whether errors on Santanders part meant that there was a delay in her doing so 
and, if there was, how to fairly compensate Miss E for this.
Miss E doesnt think Santander fairly declined her application initially. She has made
a number of points about the banks policy, against which the application was
automatically assessed, and which led the bank to its decision. While I cant make a
finding on whether or not the policy was discriminatory, I can consider whether it was
reasonable. And I think it was. Santander has a level of discretion in choosing who it
does business with and on what terms. Having reviewed the banks policy, Ive seen
that it does offer lending to the industry Miss E works in but there are more checks it
requires before doing so to protect both the borrower and the bank. Thats a decision 
it was entitled to make. And having considered what it has told us of its reasons for
this, I dont think it was unreasonable.
Under the BBL Scheme, lenders were required to process applications expeditiously
with the aim of providing finance to businesses quickly. They had some discretion to
decide how they would do so, which included the freedom to apply their existing
policies and procedure to manage risks and ensure customers were treated fairly.
Santander has explained that, to that end, its BBL application was largely automated.
And of relevance here, applications from the industries that were subject to the policy
in question were automatically declined. The applicant retained a right to appeal
when the application would be manually reviewed in keeping with the banks policy.
While imperfect, I think this was reasonable in consideration of the aims of the
Scheme and the demands and expectations of Santander in dealing with
the high volume of applications it received.
It follows that I dont think Santander did anything wrong in declining Miss Es
application in line with its policy. While there is no dispute that Miss E met the BBL
eligibility criteria, Santander wasnt obligated to provide her with a BBL based on this
alone. It processed the application in line with its policies and procedures, as it was
entitled to do under the rules of the Scheme.
When Miss E challenged the banks decision on 15 January 2021, Santander agreed
to review it. Miss Es application was then approved, and she was given a BBL in
April. Miss E says the bank only changed its decision in response to the involvementfrom her MP and the APPG - but I dont think thats the case. Santander has
explained that Miss Es application was reviewed once shed made the complaint to
the bank and from there onwards, her individual circumstances were assessed in line
with the Scheme rules. 
Ive also seen that in Santanders final response of 16 January, the Investigator
explained that the bank did have a general policy for this type of industry. However,
they also explained that whilst they couldnt overturn the decision to decline Miss Es
application, they had passed on her concerns and feedback to the relevant
department. So I think its likely that the bank was already looking at Miss Es
application again in mid-January before any of the third parties became involved from
February 2021 onwards.
I do, though, think Santander took longer than it should have to complete its review
and, ultimately, provide the BBL in light of Miss Es appeal.
Miss E says she wouldve challenged the banks decision sooner than she did  and
therefore obtained the loan earlier  but only found out that Santander had declined
her application when she called the bank in January 2021. She says the bank didnt
notify her of the decision it had made in August 2020. But I dont think thats the case.
Santander has provided evidence that shows it emailed Miss E on 28 August 2020
confirming it had been declined. This was the email address it held on file for Miss E,
which she used for her BBL application. So while its regrettable if Miss E didnt
receive the banks decision, I dont think this was Santanders fault.
There was, though, still a delay even after Miss E raised her concerns with the bank
in January. It took around three months for Santander to review the information and
process the application with the loan funds finally credited to Miss Es account on
7 April. Ive also seen that Miss E had to repeatedly chase Santander for an update
and I can appreciate why she feels that if she hadnt escalated this matter externally, 
the bank wouldnt have reviewed her application. Santander had all the information it
needed to progress Miss Es application and the bank hasnt been able to explain
why there was a delay. So I dont think it treated Miss E fairly in this respect.
Miss E also believes that because of the banks delay in making its decision about
her BBL application, she missed out on the opportunity to get a BBL top-up loan. But
I dont think she wouldve been eligible for a top-up in any event. Under the Scheme
rules, borrowers could borrow up to 25% of their annual turnover. Miss E had
borrowed close to her maximum entitlement in the initial BBL and would only have
been able to borrow a further £250. But the minimum loan amount for a top-up was
£1,000. So I dont think the delay impacted Miss E in this way.
Miss E has told us that her health and wellbeing were affected by the banks decision
and that shes experienced financial hardship as a result of the delay. We asked her
to provide evidence of this in order to better understand what the impact was. Having
reviewed the additional information provided by Miss E, Ive been unable to conclude
that the delay on Santanders part resulted in her being unable to meet essential bills.
Miss E has said this was a particularly difficult time for her and her family and that the
delays caused by the bank made the situation even worse. She has explained it had
a direct impact on her mental health and overall stress levels at the time. I dont
doubt this is the case and I agree that the bank couldve processed her application
faster than it did. However, as Ive mentioned above, Ive seen that it responded to
the initial application within a matter of weeks and that Miss E didnt see its response
until sometime later. So, I cant hold the bank solely responsible for the problemsMiss E experienced during what was a very difficult and stressful time.
I think its clear that the banks handling of Miss Es application caused her distress
and inconvenience. And I think Santander should have processed Miss Es
application faster once it agreed to review it as the additional delay meant she had to
seek support from this service and third parties to get a fair outcome. So to put things
right I think Santander should pay Miss E £300 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience this caused her.
I invited Miss E and Santander to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. The bank accepted the 
decision and had nothing further to add. Miss E didnt accept the decision. She said 
in summary that:
Its unclear if Santander has a blanket policy of discriminating against sex 
workers.
The provisional decision refused to consider if the discrimination itself was 
unfair or unreasonable  which a service we are obliged to do.
She wanted explicit consideration by this service on whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Santander to discriminate against her based on her occupation 
and gender.
I issued a further provisional decision on 12 August 2022. I said the following:
Our jurisdiction
The Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider complaints as defined by the 
Dispute Resolution (or DISP) rules in the FCA Handbook. Broadly speaking, we can 
only consider complaints about:
specific acts or omissions
in the provision of a financial service
Where the complainant alleges that they have suffered financial loss or 
material distress or inconvenience.
That means that we are required to focus on the act or omission at the heart of the
complaint. We therefore dont have a general jurisdiction to consider complaints 
about a financial businesss policies in the abstract, for example whether they be 
discriminatory in principle.
In short, in deciding a complaint, we have to look at what has actually happened to 
the complainant in order to reach a decision about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. In doing so, the rules governing our service require us 
to pay due regard to relevant law and regulations. That means we may need to 
consider whether and the extent to which a specific policy, criterion or practice 
caused unfairness in the circumstances of the individual complaint.
Allegation of discrimination
Miss Es representatives have argued that, in breach of the Equality Act, Santander
discriminated against her by refusing her application for a BBL. We are unable to 
make direct findings about whether a policy, criterion or practice amounts to 
discrimination or indirect discrimination for the purposes of the Equality Act. The 
Equality Act makes clear that only a court has the jurisdiction to do that. But in deciding what is fair and reasonable in an individual case, it is appropriate for us to 
consider whether a court might be likely to make such a finding.
Miss Es representative has suggested that the Policy meant that she was subject to
discrimination contrary to the Equality Act. The Equality Act provides for a number of
protected characteristics in respect of which service providers must not discriminate. 
Such discrimination is called direct discrimination. None of the protected 
characteristics relate to specific professions. I therefore cant see that Miss Es job 
provides any basis for a court to conclude that Santander directly discriminated 
against her contrary to the Equality Act.
I discuss further below whether, regardless of this, Santanders approach was fair 
and reasonable, as Miss Es representative has suggested that we need to consider
discrimination in a wider sense than the legal concept covered by the Equality Act.
Miss Es representative has also suggested that Santander may have indirectly
discriminated against Miss E in refusing her a loan. Thats because they say that 
around 95% of people in Miss Es profession are women, such that the Policy has a
disproportionately disadvantageous impact on women.
While I understand the argument, Im not satisfied that a court would agree. I have 
reminded myself that Santander did give Miss E the loan she requested, albeit not
immediately. I am therefore not satisfied that a court would find that  as a matter of 
fact and looking at the case as a whole  Santander did discriminate against her on 
the specific facts of this case.
But even if I am wrong about this, Santander applies the Policy equally to a wide 
range of people and professions within the adult entertainment industry, and not just 
those doing Miss Es specific job. I cant see evidence that suggests that the policy 
would have particularly disadvantaged Miss E in this case due to the fact that she is 
a woman, as opposed to for other reasons relating to the nature of the industry and 
the risks Santander had identified.
I am also satisfied that a court would have good reason to think that in this case 
Santanders general policy proportionately achieved the legitimate aim of addressing 
the risks the policy identifies. While I note what Miss Es representatives say about 
various risks in other sectors, the risks in this sector are well documented. The policy 
was not applied inflexibly but contained dispensations and waivers, building in a 
degree of flexibility to ensure an appropriate degree of proportionality once 
Santander was satisfied that there was not a risk of harm in the individual case.
Fair and reasonable
Even if a court may find that Santanders Policy discriminated against Miss E in some 
way, Ive reminded myself that my primary duty is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, rather than whether a court would necessarily 
uphold a specific legal claim. So Ive considered whether or not Santander acted 
reasonably when it processed Miss Es application, and if it didnt, what impact this 
had on Miss E.
As Miss E successfully obtained the loan in the end, the issue for me to consider is 
whether errors on Santanders part meant that there was an unreasonable delay in 
her doing so  and, if there was, how to fairly compensate Miss E for this.Miss E doesnt think Santander fairly declined her application initially. She has made 
a number of points about the banks policy, against which the application was 
automatically assessed, and which led the bank to its decision. While I cant make a 
finding on whether or not the policy was discriminatory, I have discussed above how I 
think a court might look at it. And I can consider whether it was reasonable. And I 
think it was. 
Santander has a level of discretion in choosing who it does business with and on 
what terms. Having reviewed the banks policy, Ive seen that it does offer lending to 
the industry Miss E works in but there are more checks it requires before doing so to 
protect both the borrower and the bank. Thats a decision it was entitled to make, 
given the risks to its customers who work in the industry and the potential 
reputational risks to Santander. And having considered what it has told us of its 
reasons for this, I dont think it was unreasonable. 
I note that the Financial Conduct Authority as the regulator has not intervened or 
given financial institutions guidance about lending/dealing with the adult 
entertainment industry, and a bank such as Santander can legitimately exercise 
commercial discretion as to whether and the extent to which it does business in 
higher risk sectors.
The remainder of this provisional decision remains unchanged from the one issued 
on 14 June 2022 from the paragraph which begins Under the BBL Scheme, lenders 
were required to process applications expeditiously with the aim of providing finance 
to businesses quickly. 
I again invited Miss E and Santander to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. The bank accepted the decision and 
had nothing further to add. Miss E didnt accept the decision. She said in summary that:
She wanted to know what risks in the sex industry Id referred to as well documented, 
and what evidence there was of those risks compared to other industries. 
The banks understanding of the risks involved with the sector wasnt evidence-based 
and showed a lack of understanding, and that third parties had shown other ways for 
banks to reduce the risks involved e.g. from people trafficking, without excluding a 
specific industry sector. 
She wanted an explanation as to why, before issuing my first provisional decision, Id 
not considered whether she had been unfairly treated or discriminated against, based 
on her sex and occupation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Miss E has provided information that she feels shows the sex industry is no riskier than other 
sectors, but thats not something for me to comment on. I have already explained that I can 
only look at the circumstances of Miss Es individual complaint and not how the sex industry 
has been treated by the bank in comparison to other industries and sectors. I also think its 
fundamentally accepted that there are risks in this sector which include violence, sexual 
abuse, fluctuating income, and exploitation - so I think it was reasonable that the bank had 
additional checks in place when it reviewed Miss Es application. Miss E says that my first provisional decision didnt consider whether she was unfairly 
treated or discriminated against because of her gender occupation. But I did consider this as 
part of my first provisional decision and explained that I couldnt comment about 
discrimination under the Equality Act, but I could look at whether the banks actions were 
reasonable - which I did when considering the application process. I also said that I didnt 
think Miss E had been treated fairly, and this was the reason that I recommended the bank 
pay her compensation. 
However, Miss E specifically asked for the provisional decision to be considered from a legal 
perspective. In light of Miss Es response to the first provisional decision, the second 
decision addresses these points in more detail and also refers to how a court may perceive 
the complaint  rather than just what I can solely comment on. However, this doesnt change 
my view that the remit of the service doesnt allow me to make a finding on whether the 
banks policy was discriminatory, and that I can only look at whether it was fair and 
reasonable. And as I have explained in my provisional decisions, taking into consideration all 
of the circumstances of the complaint, I think it was. 
Miss E has provided information that she feels shows that the banks criteria for dealing with 
the sex industry arent reasonable. However, Santander has confirmed that it considers 
information from a variety of sources when setting its criteria. Its not for me to comment on 
what information the bank uses or how this is applied, as this is a commercial decision that 
Santander is able to make. As a service, we would expect the bank to have a reasonable 
and proportionate mechanism in place to deal with its customers. And based on the 
information Ive seen Im satisfied thats the case.   
Its not in dispute that Santander made an error in not processing Miss Es appeal 
application as quickly as it should. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to 
apply its lending criteria in the way that it did using its automated system to initially decline 
the application based on her industry. So my final decision  and the compensation Im 
requiring Santander to pay in order to put things right - remains the same as that of my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Miss E £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman