DRN-3118782
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim she made on her travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms T travelled to a country Ill refer to as Country A in February 2020. She was due to 
return in May 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared 
Covid-19 to be a pandemic and on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel. On 23 March 2020 the 
FCDO advised all UK citizens to return home. 
Ms T cut short her trip and returned to the UK. She returned at the earliest opportunity in 
April 2020, having struggled to book a flight. She explained that the airline shed been due to 
travel with grounded all flights and that she had to book a flight at short notice with another 
airline. Ms T claimed on her travel insurance policy for the cost of her new flight and a taxi 
from the airport to her home. Shes since received a refund of around £400 from the airline 
who were due to operate her original flight home. URV declined to cover Ms Ts claim as 
they said the circumstances werent covered by the policy terms. So, Ms T complained to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Ms Ts complaint. She 
explained that, based on the policy terms and conditions, Ms T wouldnt have been covered 
if she cut short her trip but also not covered if she stayed abroad following the change in 
FCDO advice. She didnt think that this was made clear in the policy documents, so she 
upheld the complaint. 
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the 
policy clearly set out what cover was provided and Ms T had 14 days to review the policy 
after shed bought it. And, they said that Covid-19 wasnt a known issue at the point the 
policy had been drafted.  
Ms T responded to say that shed spoken to someone whilst she was abroad and the person 
didnt know what she should do. She explained that she had support from the British 
consulate and reiterated that she had a difficult journey home due to the lockdown in the UK. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination. 
 The policy terms and conditions say, on page 16: 
Section B1 - Curtailment charges
(if you have to come home early)
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Schedule of benefits for your 
proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and 
other pre-paid charges (including excursions up to £250) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable additional 
travel expenses incurred if the trip is curtailed (you having to return home early) 
before completion as a result of any of the following events:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result 
of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d)  your close relative
e)  your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the
curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4.The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
In the general exclusions section of the policy, on page 11, there is no cover for: 
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
FCO or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling has advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy because: 
Ms T curtailed her trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
the destination she was already visiting. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Ms T had remained abroad shed 
have not followed FCDO advice. So, the evidence Ive been provided with suggest it 
is most likely that she wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms and 
conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently 
clear to Ms T.   
Ms T would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to her attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ms T and 
URV. I think its unlikely that Ms T would have purchased the policy if she had 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed 
whilst she was abroad.
Im sorry to hear that Ms T had a difficult journey home and that she didnt get 
support from URV whilst she was abroad. I understand that Ms T had a traumatic 
and upsetting experience making the arrangements to get home. However, the 
impact of the pandemic was unprecedented. And, as Ms T was not unwell or in need 
of medical repatriation I wouldnt have expected URV to arrange her return home. 
Usually, in such circumstances Ms T would need to arrange her own flight home and 
claim the costs back. So, Im not directing URV to pay any further compensation.
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Ms T complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman