DRN-1713440
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs W say Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them the PPI. 
Whilst the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI provided cover for Mr W alone. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs W recalled taking the PPI, but they told us they only did so because they were 
told to. Yorkshire told us that the PPI would have been presented to Mr and Mrs W as an 
option they could take or not. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, or where 
the testimony from the parties is at odds, as it is here, I need to make my decision based on 
a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides 
have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Mr and Mrs W have suggested that they had lots of credit both before and since and have 
never taken PPI. They say this suggests that on this occasion its more likely that they were 
told they had to have it. But in that scenario its also just as likely that Mr and Mrs W must 
have known PPI was optional as they opted not to take it on previous occasions. So, I have 
noted the testimony but will look at the events peculiar to this sale to make my decision 
about the sale of PPI in 1995. 
Yorkshire has provided the actual mortgage application form from the time of the sale. It 
contains no reference to PPI. To get the cover Mr and Mrs W had to complete an application 
form which was separate to the application for the borrowing. This might have suggested 
that the PPI was separate to, and not dependent on, the mortgage application. Ive also 
considered the letter dated 29 march 1995; the mortgage offer. Ive noted that there is 
nothing in the mortgage conditions that obliged Mr and Mrs W to take PPI. 
However, even if I discounted these documents, given the length of time since the sale, over 
25 years, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on the matter 
of optionality. So, whilst acknowledging that things could have happened as Mr and Mrs W 
said they did, I think its more likely that Yorkshire wouldve made Mr and Mrs W aware that 
the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it, even though they may not remember that 
now, many years later. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed to 
decide if it was right for them. Its possible the information Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been, but based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I dont think 
better information would have put them off the policy. I say that because Mr W was eligible 
for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits 
to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that Mr and Mrs W told us that whilst Mr Ws sick pay 
was good initially, it dropped significantly after nine months, such that Mr and Mrs W may 
have had to rely on their family for support in making their mortgage repayments. This PPI 
policy could have paid out for up to 24 months if Mr W was too ill to work for a long time and 
would have done so in addition to any sick pay arrangements Mr W may have had and for 
longer than Mr Ws employer would have paid him at his full rate of pay. And this would have 
reduced the reliance that Mr and Mrs W may have had otherwise on whatever help their 
family may have been in a position to offer them. And the policy would have paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mr W lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been useful to them if 
something went wrong. 
So, considering all of the above, and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a 
loan secured on your home, I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would 
have put Mr and Mrs W off taking out the PPI. 
I know Mr and Mrs W feel strongly and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed by the outcome. I know that Mr and Mrs W will also feel disappointed 
because they think that this outcome is not one suggested by a case study on our website. I 
need to point out that the case studies are broad guides only to our approaches to certain 
types of complaints in general. Specifically I must point out that the case study Mr W referred 
us to was not one of the many case studies we've published about PPI cases. In any event, 
it is the case that each case is decided on its own particular merits. 
Having considered all the submissions in this case, including all of Mr and Mrs Ws 
testimony, I have seen insufficient to think that Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result of 
anything Yorkshire may have done wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman