DRN-3392888
Complaint
Mr B has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) irresponsibly provided 
him with an overdraft which it continued applying charges on even when he was in financial 
difficulty.
Background and my provisional decision of 11 March 2022
One of our investigators looked at Mr Bs complaint and thought we could look at the 
decision to provide Mr B with his overdraft because he complained too late and that RBS 
hadnt applied any of the more recent charges unfairly. Mr B disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
On 11 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Bs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by setting out that RBS would be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good 
industry practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges. So I didnt consider it necessary to set all of 
this out.
I then explained that Mr Bs previous complaints about his overdraft meant that I couldnt 
look at what happened on his account prior to December 2016. And so my consideration of 
Mr Bs case was limited to what happened on his account after he received an answer on his 
second complaint to RBS in November 2016.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I thought that RBS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from December 2016. By this 
point, RBS had already received 2 formal complaints (in 2014 and 2016) regarding the 
difficulty the charges were causing.
Furthermore, a cursory look at Mr B statements leading up to this period showed that he was 
primarily gambling the overdraft funds in his account. Mr B also rarely saw a credit balance 
for any significant period of time and he was also borrowing from a number of payday type 
and other high-cost lenders too. So the activity on Mr Bs account didnt suggest he was in 
any sort of position to repay what he already owed without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further either. 
This meant that I thought that by December 2016 RBS should have stopped providing the 
overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance rather than adding even 
more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. All of this meant that RBS should have 
realised that Mr Bs overdraft usage indicated there was a problem with the overdraft facility 
and offered him assistance. As RBS didnt react to Mr Bs account usage, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
As Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was 
already experiencing difficulty. I was intending to conclude that Mr B lost out because of 
what RBS did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
RBS confirmed receiving my provisional decision and agreed to settle the complaint in line 
with my proposed direction.
Mr B also confirmed receiving my provisional decision and he disagreed with me only being 
able to look at events from December 2016 onwards.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the partied for their comments and Im pleased to see that RBS has agreed to settle 
Mr Bs complaint in line with the direction proposed in my provisional decision.
Ive separately explained why Im satisfied this service cant look at Mr Bs complaint about 
his overdraft and subsequent limit increases being provided in the first place, or whether 
RBS acted fairly and reasonably when it added the charges that it did to Mr Bs account prior 
to December 2016. 
As this is the case, and as neither party has provided any further arguments regarding the 
conclusions I reached on what happened from December 2016 onwards, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B  as he feels that he entitled to more in 
compensation. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least 
feel his concerns have been listened to.
Fair compensation  what RBS needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for RBS to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from December 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made RBS should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan Mr B 
is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with RBS to reach a suitable 
agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 2016. RBS 
can also reduce Mr Bs overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his limit.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then RBS 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. RBS can also 
reduce Mr Bs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS must give    
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman