DRN-3562921
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
Mr A opened an account with Monzo in October 2020. Between November 2020 and 
January 2021, Mr As account received credits from a number of different accounts. Most of 
these payments were transferred on to a third-party. 
In January 2021 and February 2021, Monzo received notifications from more than one bank, 
responsible for sending the some of the payments to Mr As account, stating that the payees 
of the funds had reported being the victims of fraud. Monzo decided to review Mr As 
account. It decided to close to close the account and also record a fraud prevention marker 
against Mr A.
Mr A eventually realised that Monzo had recorded a fraud prevention marker against him 
and made a complaint. Monzo looked at Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A 
remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that although Monzo ought to 
have obtained more information from Mr A during the course of its investigation, nonetheless 
there is sufficient evidence for the fraud marker to have been recorded and for it to remain. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Mr A has said that the payments into his account were for him to exchange foreign currency. 
Hes said he didnt know the people making the transfers into his account but transferred 
them on to a third-party who then arranged for foreign currency transfers. Mr A was the one 
accepting the transfers from others because the party he was transferring the funds onto 
didnt want so many people transferring funds into his account.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But Im mindful that more than one bank reported  
having customers who made payments into Mr As account whod reported being victims of 
fraud. So while Mr A has queried why only one transaction appears to have aroused 
suspicion when he had a number of payments made into his account, the fraud marker 
wasnt recorded solely on the basis of one report. 
Equally, while Ive tried to give Mr A the benefit of the doubt there are some things which 
simply dont add up here. For example, Mr A says that he got involved in the transactions he 
did to use up the foreign currency he had because it was just lying there idle. But that 
doesnt explain why transfers in the same foreign currency, he was looking to use up, were 
made to an account in his name. Furthermore, Im also concerned that Mr A willingly decided 
to accept payments from a number of people he didnt know when the person who the funds 
were ultimately supposed to go to didnt want these transfers made into his account. I think 
that this ought to have alerted Mr A to the fact that these payments may have been 
illegitimate.
Finally, Ive also considered what Mr A has said about him now having a debt, which hes 
having to repay, to the third-party he transferred the funds to as these funds were recalled 
from his account. But I dont think that Mr A taking steps to repay this amount because he 
says the third party got his lawyer to threaten legal action means that he wasnt complicit in 
what happened in the first place.  
I know Mr A says he feels he being penalised for Monzo not asking for his version of events 
at the time. And as Ive said I do think that Monzo ought to have asked Mr A for this. But Im 
satisfied that it doing so here is unlikely to have made a material difference in Mr As position 
or Monzos decision to record the fraud marker. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available evidence is 
sufficient to conclude that Mr A was not an unwitting participant in fraudulent funds being 
received into his account. So I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr A when 
recording a fraud marker against him.
I now turn to the closure of Mr As account. I know that since his complaint has been with us 
Mr A has said he accepts Monzo was entitled to close his account. But for the sake of completeness and as it formed part of Mr As initial complaint, I think its worth me explaining 
that the terms and conditions of Mr As account permitted Monzo to close it without notice 
where it believes a customer has broken the law or attempted to break the law. Ive already 
explained why I think Monzo was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr As account had 
been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the 
fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Monzo to close Mr As account. And Im therefore not upholding Mr As 
complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope Mr A will understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr A 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman