DRN-2762657
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by PSA Finance UK Limited 
(PSA) 
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint PSA, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr P responsible for keeping the car in good repair 
and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of the vehicle in 
excess of fair wear and tear and PSA reminded him of the need to make sure the car has a 
full-service history and stamped service book available. 
Mr P accepts some of the refurbishment charges that PSA have levied but he doesnt accept 
the charges for dull paintwork. Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are 
provided in the inspection report completed at handover, but I dont think they show any dull 
or rippled paintwork or any damage. So, I dont think it would be fair for PSA to levy any 
charges for the damage they claim is present on the left-hand front wing, left hand front door 
or corner bumper (totalling £319).
PSA have also made charges because the service book wasnt stamped with evidence that 
four services had been completed.
The inspection took place on 10 November 2020 and Mr P has explained that he called PSA 
immediately to explain the services had been completed. He requested evidence of those 
services and provided it to PSA on 27 November 2020. The services had been completed at 
the dealership who brokered the credit agreement and who appear to be a dealership 
authorised by the manufacturer.
I understand that PSA think its reasonable for a charge to be made. They explained the 
requirement to Mr P, and they say the car will have sold for less because it lacked a full-
service record. They have further explained that they have no facility to repatriate a car with 
its service records once they are provided. 
Ive thought about what PSA have said but, on balance, Im persuaded it would not be fair to 
ask Mr P to pay the £800 they are requesting because:
Mr P explained early on that the services had been completed and I think it would 
have been fair for PSA to wait for the records;
the records were returned to PSA on 27 November 2020 which was only three days 
after the agreement ended. I think it would have been very unlikely that the car would 
have sold in the interim period, especially as Mr P hadnt provided the V5 document 
so I think it would have been fair for PSA to ensure this information was available at 
auction to prospective buyers;
the services were completed at an authorised dealership and I think its reasonable to 
suggest a consumer would expect a system record of the services to have been 
made as is the case nowadays at many dealerships. In that case the service record 
would not have been stamped;
Ive not seen evidence the vehicle did sell for less than was anticipated so I cant see 
PSA incurred a loss that they should fairly be compensated for.
  
Putting things right
PSA should waive the charges they have made for refurbishment to the left-hand front door 
and wing and to the corner of the bumper (totalling £319). They should also waive the 
charge for the missing services.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell PSA Finance UK Limited to 
waive the charges they have made for refurbishment to the left-hand front door and wing and 
to the corner of the bumper (totalling £319). They should also waive the £800 charge for the 
missing services. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman