DRN-3380030
The complaint
Mrs S attorney, Mr S, complains that J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited (JESPL) gave
him the understanding that he could not execute instructions on Mrs S investments. And in
doing so, impeded Mr S efforts to prevent a loss on Mrs S investments.
What happened
Mrs S held investments on a platform which Ill call Platform A.
These investments had previously been managed by an IFA. When the IFA retired, 
responsibility for Mrs S and her investments was passed along to JESPL. JESPL made
several attempts to introduce itself to Mrs S, but wasnt able to do so.
It transpires that Mrs S had been struggling with her health and she hadnt been well enough
to meet with JESPL. Mr S was appointed as Mrs S attorney. He contacted JESPL on her
behalf to register the Power of Attorney (POA) and to review her investment holdings.
JESPL sent him a form to complete, and asked to see a copy of the POA, both of which Mr
S duly provided.
JESPL registered the POA internally, and sent the document back to Mr S. It arranged a call
with him to discuss Mrs S investments and the service it could be providing for her.
Soon after this call, JESPL wrote to Mr S and asked for a copy of the POA again. It
explained it was necessary for the authority to be registered with Platform A. Again, Mr S
complied, and he sent the documents over to the business.
As time wore on, Mr S grew concerned with how long it was taking to register his authority.
The impact of the global pandemic had affected the financial markets, and in light of this, he
wanted to make changes to Mrs S investments. But as hed understood it, he wasnt able to
do so until the POA was fully registered with Platform A.
Mr S complained to JESPL. He felt it shouldve handled the registration of the POA more
efficiently, and argued itd left Mrs S at a disadvantage, as he hadnt been able to execute
orders on her behalf when hed needed to.
JESPL rejected Mr S complaint. It said that itd asked for the POA document a second time
because Platform A needed it to action his request to update Mrs S correspondence
address. It explained that following its own registration of the POA, it wouldve been able to
act on any instructions it received from Mr S. It denied ever giving Mr S the impression it
wouldnt be possible to trade.
Mr S was unhappy with JESPLs response, so he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr S didnt accept our investigators
findings, the matters been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022  I said that it was my intention to 
uphold the complaint. 
This is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill be departing substantially from the opinion given previously by our
investigator. Its my view that this complaint should be upheld. I think in its dealings with Mr
S in early 2020, at times, JESPL has failed to meet his information needs and communicate
with him in a way that was clear, fair, and not misleading. This has been to its client, Mrs S
detriment. I shall explain why.
Its Mr S contention that JESPL gave him cause to assume he couldnt execute orders on
Mrs S behalf. And that when he directly confronted JESPL with his assumption, it failed to
correct him, such that he could stop a loss worsening in Mrs S holdings with Platform A.
Some of Mr S submissions to this service focus on what he feels JESPL did to give him the
false impression he couldnt act for Mrs S. Ive considered all of this information, and I hope
Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy, but I will not be addressing these points in detail here.
How Mr S came to his understanding wouldnt alter my view on when and how JESPL failed
in its duty of care towards him as Mrs S legally appointed representative. Nor does it affect
my view on what I feel JESPL should now do for Mrs S to put matters right.
Mr S instructions to deal
In considering this complaint, I think its important to bear in mind that JESPL has confirmed
that following its own acceptance of the POA arrangement in January 2020, it wouldve been
able to execute any orders it received from Mr S. Its subsequently suggested this would be
on the understanding he accepted JESPLs standard terms and conditions on Mrs S behalf.
As of 10 March 2020, Mr S was under the impression that he couldnt execute instructions
on Mrs S behalf. We know this, because this is the first date he expressed a clear desire to
trade on her account with Platform A. In an email to JESPLs advisor, Mr H, who hed been
speaking with up until that point, Mr S said:
Hi [Mr H], any idea when my POA with [Platform A] is going to be approved. It's
been quite frustrating to watch this market correction without the ability to deal?
From reading this email, Im of the opinion that at this point, Mr S was making two things 
clear to JESPL:
He believed he couldnt execute orders on Mrs S behalf.
He wanted to execute orders on Mrs S behalf.
In addition to this, considering the context surrounding this interaction, I think it ought
reasonably to have been apparent to JESPL that:
Given Platform A was apparently yet to register the POA, dealing via JESPL was 
likely to be Mr S only means of executing orders on Mrs S investments at that 
moment.
Mindful that Mr S was referring to a market correction, his desire to execute orders 
was likely to have been urgent.We know Mr S email was seen by JESPL no later than the next day, when on 11 March
2020, Mr H acknowledged its contents and agreed to check in with JESPLs admin team.
JESPL has confirmed Mr H didnt email Mr S again until nearly a week later when Mr S first
complained.
Ive reviewed much of the correspondence that followed this interaction. Following his email
Ive highlighted above, Mr S complained on 17 March 2020. At that point, he said that:
to find I am not actually in a position to deal has been very upsetting, particularly in
light of this market crash.
Much like with his earlier email, Mr H acknowledged its contents on the following day without
pointing out that it would in fact be possible to deal via JESPL.
From the evidence available to me, it seems it was not until 19 March 2020 that Mr H offered
to convey Mr S instructions to Platform A. And by that point, Platform A had registered the
POA, removing any impediment Mr S mayve faced executing orders directly.
Ive thought very carefully about this interaction and Im satisfied it falls short of whats
expected of JESPL as a regulated firm. The rules say that when communicating with clients
or their representatives, JESPL must do so in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading.
JESPLs also required to consider its clients best interests and pay due regard to their
information needs. Ive thought about how these standards should reasonably be applied in
this scenario, mindful of the context Ive referred to above. Having done so, its my view that
on receipt of Mr S email from 10 March 2020, Mr H ought to have urgently clarified that Mr S
could execute orders for Mrs S via JESPL. I see no reason why this couldnt have happened
on 11 March 2020, the date Mr H acknowledged Mr S email from the day before.
JESPLs suggested the reason it didnt clarify this straight away, was because Mr H had
assumed it was Mr S intention to manage Mrs S investments himself. Its based its
assumption on the phone calls Mr H had with Mr S, and the fact that Mr S didnt complete or
return JESPLs standard terms of service. I dont think this was an unreasonable assumption
to make, in terms of the longer term intentions Mr S had for managing Mrs S money. But
when Mr S demonstrated a clear misunderstanding of the facts in his email on 10 March
2020, JESPL knew, or ought to have known, he was labouring under the false impression he
couldnt trade. And whatever JESPL mightve assumed about his longer term plans, at that
moment in time it was clear Mr S wanted to trade.
Mindful of what its regulations required, I can think of no reasonable reason for JESPL to not
have clarified matters for Mr S at that point. It had a duty to consider Mrs S best interests
and should therefore have taken the opportunity to correct Mr S. He was clearly concerned
about stopping a worsening loss in her portfolio.
We know, because of the orders Mr S ultimately arranged via JESPL with Platform A, that
Mr S was seeking to de-risk Mrs S portfolio by encashing her investments. And its my view
that by not making it clear to Mr S that he couldve done this much sooner, JESPLs inaction
has caused Mrs S to lose out on the prices that couldve been achieved for her units, had the
orders been placed sooner than they were.
In coming to my decision, Ive thought about whether Mr S ought reasonably to have known
he couldve traded via JESPL following its own registration of the POA. From his own
testimony, I can see that initially, Mr S didnt doubt he could trade via JESPL. It was only
after JESPL wrote him a letter on 17 February 2020, that he assumed he couldnt trade. Ive
reviewed a copy of this letter, which asks Mr S to provide the POA documents a second timefor Platform As benefit. And considering it in context, I can understand why Mr S made the
assumption he did.
Its now understood that JESPL requested the POA a second time so that Mrs S
correspondence address with Platform A could be updated to that of Mr S. But JESPLs
letter didnt explain that. And its staff didnt explain this to Mr S when he called JESPL to
discuss the letter on 24 February 2020. Read from Mr S perspective at the time, its my view
that the letter and subsequent phone call are likely to have convinced him that the process of
registering his authority with Platform A was not yet completed. And given that Mrs S money
was held with Platform A, I can understand why he assumed he couldnt trade.
So Im satisfied Mr S wasnt in a position to mitigate Mrs S loss, prior to his email to JESPL
on 10 March 2020. For all the reasons given above Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to
require JESPL to put this right.
Putting things right
Our services general approach to redressing complaints, is that where we can identify a firm
has made a mistake, it should aim to return its client to the position they wouldve been in if
that mistake had not occurred.
In this case Ive identified that JESPLs failure to correct Mr S understanding that he couldnt
trade by 11 March 2020, is a mistake which should not have occurred. So to fairly redress
this complaint, I must decide what position Mrs S is likely to have been in, if the mistake
never happened.
Its my view that Mr H shouldve told Mr S, no later than on 11 March 2020, that he could still
place orders via JESPL if he wanted to. JESPL is a business, and I would not expect it to
provide its services for free. And Im aware that transacting via JESPL wouldve required Mr
S to agree to its terms and conditions on Mrs S behalf, accepting any standard dealing fees
that went along with that. Which from Mr S call with Mr H, I understand to be 1.35%.
Given the concern shown in his emails, and the tumult in the markets at that point, Im
persuaded Mr S is likely to have accepted this fee, if it meant hed be able to deal sooner, as
opposed to waiting an at that point unknown duration for Platform A to finish setting up the
POA.
From the evidence available to me, I can see that having discussed the state of Mrs S
investments with a view to executing orders on them on 19 March 2020, the orders to sell
Mrs S investments were ultimately arranged to conclude on 14 April 2020. I think it is
reasonable to conclude therefore that had this discussion taken place eight days sooner on
11 March 2020 as Ive identified it should have, then the same trades are also likely to have
taken place eight days sooner, on 6 April 2020.
So to put things right, JESPL should calculate the overall price that was achieved for
encashing Mrs S investments on 14 April 2020 (Figure X). It should then calculate the
overall price that couldve been achieved had the same investments been sold on 6 April
2020 instead (Figure Y).
If Figure Y is greater than Figure X, i.e. if Mrs S wouldve been better off selling her
investments on 6 April 2020, then JESPL should pay her the difference between Figure Y
and Figure X. This amount should be paid to Mrs S, less any dealing fees which JESPL
wouldve applied if itd executed this instruction itself.
If Figure X is greater than Figure Y, i.e. if Mrs S wouldve been worse off selling her
investments on 6 April 2020, I wont require JESPL to take any further action in this regard,as she wont have suffered a loss.
Our service has the power to award interest where clients are worse off having been left out
of pocket. But I wont be doing so on this occasion. As I understand it, the majority of the
cash raised from the sale of Mrs S investments has remained static in her account with
Platform A since the trades were executed. And this balance wont have earnt any interest in
the interim. So Im not persuaded shell have suffered any detriment as a result of being left
out of pocket, if indeed the calculation above confirms she ever was out of pocket. It is
enough that this loss, if it exists, is covered.
Ive also considered whether these events are likely to have caused Mrs S any trouble or
upset, such that it would be fair to require JESPL to recognise this. But as I understand it,
due to her health, Mrs S hasnt played an active role in these proceedings and so wont have
been impacted by these events, beyond the possible financial loss Ive highlighted above. So
it wouldnt be fair of me to award her compensation for trouble or upset. 
JESPL didnt agree with my findings, but it said that it accepted my decision. In doing so it 
pointed out that it was never its intention to mislead Mr S. It did not provide any new 
evidence for me to consider. 
Mr S accepted some of my findings, but did not agree with how Id proposed to put things 
right. He said itd been his intention to deal before hed emailed JESPL on 10 March 2020, 
and that this ought to be reflected in the date Id set redress as being calculated from. He 
also said that the delay between him understanding that he could deal on 19 March 2020, 
and actually doing so on 14 April 2020, was due in part to issues using Platform As online 
service as well as his own reading of the market conditions. He felt that I should also take 
this into account when deciding when redress should be calculated from. 
Most significantly, Mr S has provided new evidence in the form of an email from Platform A, 
which confirms his POA was established with that firm on 6 March 2020. And based on this 
new evidence, I can now see that it was not accurate to conclude that JESPLs services 
were his only way of dealing on 11 March 2020. Ive considered this new evidence, along 
with the other comments and submissions that have been made in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision is along the lines Id outlined previously, with one key 
difference. I shall explain.
JESPLs required to communicate in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. Its also 
required to consider the best interests of its clients. And Im satisfied in this case that its 
failed to do so for Mr S whilst he was representing Mrs S interests. 
Mr S demonstrated a clear misunderstanding that he couldnt deal in his email dated 10 
March 2020. An email which JESPL saw no later than 11 March 2020, when it sent an 
acknowledgment. Mindful of whats expected of it as a regulated firm, JESPL ought to have 
taken this opportunity to correct Mr S understanding and set out his options. And had it done 
so, it wouldve empowered Mr S to potentially stop a loss worsening in Mrs S investments. 
JESPL disagreed with my findings, but it has said that it accepts my provisional decision 
without providing further evidence for consideration. Mr S hasnt disagreed with my findings on this point. So I see no reason to depart from what Id established about this specific point 
in my provisional decision. By failing to correct him, its my view that JESPLs not treated Mr 
S, and by extension Mrs S, fairly in this case. 
With this established, I must now decide what JESPL should do to, as closely as possible, 
return Mrs S to the position she wouldve been in, but for the mistake Ive identified. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that if JESPL told Mr S he could deal on 11 March 
2020 when Ive identified it should have, hes most likely to have dealt via JESPL and paid it 
a fee in the process. But I made this finding on the understanding that on that day, Mr S 
wouldnt have been able to deal via Platform A, because his POA wasnt yet recognised by 
that firm. 
Mr S has now provided an email, from Platform A, which confirms it received the POA on 5 
March 2020 and applied it to Mrs S account the next day. Ive looked again at my previous 
findings in light of this. 
Its my view that when Mr S emailed on 10 March 2020, prior to replying, and mindful of the 
obligations I outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable of JESPL to have checked in with Platform A to ensure its request to register the 
POA had been completed. Mr S was expressing a desire to deal, and JESPL knew itd sent 
the POA across to Platform A the week prior as part of its attempts to update Mrs S 
correspondence address. In those circumstances, I find that it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable of JESPL to follow up on this. 
Had it done so, JESPL wouldve known the POA was in place. And its reply to Mr S on 11 
March 2020 ought reasonably to have both corrected Mr S misunderstanding that he 
couldnt deal, and also given him the option of either dealing via JESPL and accepting its 
fees, or dealing via Platform A, the choice he ultimately made on 19 March 2020. 
To fairly decide the outcome of this complaint I must now consider on the balance of 
probability, which of these two options Mr S is more likely to have chosen. To do this, Ive 
considered the detailed testimony Mr S has provided on his thought process at that time, as 
well as the actions we know he actually took when he was properly notified of his ability to 
deal on 19 March 2020. 
In this case the evidence persuades me that, if properly informed, on 11 March 2020 Mr S 
would most likely have chosen to act in the same way he ultimately did on 19 March 2020. 
Meaning he would most likely have embarked on the same process of attempting to deal via 
Platform A. And in all likelihood, wouldve ended up encountering the same or similar 
circumstances which contributed to no trades being executed until 14 April 2020. I think its 
likely therefore that the same trades which were executed on 14 April 2020, would instead 
have been executed on 6 April 2020 instead. And crucially, in contrast to my previous 
findings, Mrs S would not have incurred a dealing fee from JESPL when doing so.  
I have considered the probability of Mr S choosing to deal via JESPL. In my provisional 
decision, I felt this was what Mr S would likely have chosen to do. But I concluded this on the 
understanding it was his only way of executing dealing instructions. Whereas we now know it 
wouldve been possible to deal directly via Platform A at that time. And given thats what Mr 
S ultimately chose to do, I think its likely he wouldve made a similar decision had the 
opportunity arisen sooner. 
The timing of Mr S tradesIm conscious the finding Ive made above is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S. 
Hes pointed out that the position of the markets on 11 March 2020 wasnt what it was by 19 
March 2020. He argues the decision to sell all of Mrs S investments wouldve been quicker 
and easier to make on 11 March 2020. And so had he been presented with this option, as 
Ive found he should have been, hes suggested he would likely have traded either 
immediately or very soon afterwards.  
Ive thought very carefully about this. I understand that Mr S journey of learning he could 
trade on 19 March 2020 and actually doing so on 14 April 2020, wasnt that long as a result 
of his own inaction. Mr S has explained that throughout this period he had difficulties using 
Platform As online service. Hes also explained that he had real trepidation about cashing 
out Mrs S investments after seeing them decline so rapidly. But whilst I can appreciate the 
position of the markets would likely have been more favourable on 11 March 2020, I cant 
fairly or reasonably find that Mr S is likely to have traded any sooner than the 26 days it 
ended up taking him. Ill explain why. 
Based on the description hes given, Im not persuaded the difficulties Mr S found when 
using Platform As online service wouldve been any different had he known he could trade 
on 11 March 2020. It seems likely these would have been an issue to be overcome 
whenever he first attempted to use that service. So I think its reasonable of me to conclude 
this wouldve still been a factor. 
With regard to the position of the markets, I accept its possible that Mr S mayve been 
compelled to trade more swiftly if JESPL had reminded him of his capabilities sooner. But 
when deciding how matters wouldve been different, but for a business mistake, my findings 
must be based on the available evidence and what, on the balance of probability, I can be 
persuaded its fair and reasonable to conclude. The potential for hindsight to colour ones 
perception of how they mightve acted had things been different is considerable, especially 
when theres a potential for financial loss, as is the case here. So whilst Ive studied Mr S 
submissions on this topic in detail, I cannot reasonably find that he wouldve traded more 
swiftly than he did.    
In coming to this conclusion, Ive considered the money Mr S was looking to safeguard was 
not his own. It belonged to Mrs S, and Mr S has said it was intended at least in part to pay 
for her care. Hes spoken of his and his co-attorneys anxiety about making the decision to 
withdraw when the market was in such steep decline, or whether it would be better to wait 
for a bounce. I can fully appreciate Mr S anxiety here. And so whilst I accept his observation 
that market conditions for Mrs S investments were more favourable on 11 March 2020 than 
they were on 19 March 2020, thats not a perspective Mr S couldve had on the day Ive 
identified that JESPL ought to have explained he could trade. From Mr S perspective on 11 
March 2020, hes likely to have been aware the market was in sharp decline, but this was 
also the case on 19 March 2020. And we know that from a position of knowing he could 
trade on 19 March 2020, factoring in the issues with Platform As online service, Mr S didnt 
execute any trades until some time later. Ive seen nothing which persuades me Mr S is 
likely to have foreseen that market conditions would continue to worsen beyond 11 March 
2020, such that he wouldve traded instantly. Certainly no more so than he would have 
known the market wouldnt have fallen further after 19 March 2020. And as Ive mentioned 
above, Im not persuaded trading instantly via Platform A is likely to have been possible, 
given the issues Mr S has reported with its online service. 
So knowing how he did act in similar circumstances, Im satisfied the fairest and most 
reasonable conclusion I could make, is that Mr S is likely to have acted similarly, had he 
been empowered to trade sooner.
JESPLs letter dated 17 February 2020Mr S has made much of JESPLs letter dated 17 February 2020 in his submissions. I found 
in my provisional decision that, in context, its contents could reasonably have given Mr S the 
impression that he wasnt in a position to trade. Mr S has suggested therefore that this 
should be the point at which redress is calculated from. 
Im satisfied that this is not a finding I could reasonably make. Whilst I accept its possible 
that trading might have been on Mr S mind when he received this letter and subsequently 
called in to discuss its contents with JESPL, thats not something he articulated at the time. 
Ive considered all of the evidence in this case, and Ive found the earliest indication from Mr 
S that he wished to trade was his email to JESPL dated 10 March 2020. We know that 
JESPL saw this email no later than 11 March 2020 when it acknowledged the email. And Ive 
identified the significance of this date and JESPLs failing in what Ive set out above. 
I can accept that from Mr S perspective, if he thought he couldnt trade, hes unlikely to have 
articulated a desire to do so whilst that belief remained. I have some sympathy here. But I 
hope Mr S will appreciate that I cannot know with any certainty what his thoughts wouldve 
been throughout this period. The findings Ive made above are based on the evidence which 
is available to me, and what I have found to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Putting things right
The above means that, as I set out in my provisional decision, JESPL ought to have made 
Mr S aware he could deal with it, or directly with Platform A on 11 March 2020. The evidence 
persuades me Mr S would likely have chosen to deal directly with Platform A. And mindful of 
this, I think its likely the process of overcoming the issues using Platform As online service, 
and weighing the risks of choosing the right moment to deal which began on 19 March 2020 
and ended on 14 April 2020, is likely to have instead begun on 11 March 2020 and would 
therefore likely have ended on 6 April 2020. 
So to put things right, JESPL should calculate the overall price that was achieved for
encashing Mrs S investments on 14 April 2020 (Figure X). It should then calculate the
overall price that couldve been achieved had the same investments been sold on 6 April
2020 instead (Figure Y).
If Figure Y is greater than Figure X, i.e. if Mrs S wouldve been better off selling her
investments on 6 April 2020, then JESPL should pay her the difference between Figure Y
and Figure X. 
If Figure X is greater than or equal to Figure Y, then no redress is payable. For the reasons 
given above, JESPL may not deduct a dealing fee from any amount paid to Mrs S. I do not 
award interest or additional compensation for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
I can appreciate Mr S may feel aggrieved that having found JESPLs treated Mrs S unfairly, 
Ive decided a method of redressing her which may potentially result in no compensation 
being payable. But if this is indeed the case, all it would signify is that Mrs S is no worse off 
financially as a result of JESPLs error.  
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied the redress Ive decided is fair and reasonable, 
and takes account of all of the evidence and circumstances in this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct that J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited should calculate the overall price that was 
achieved for encashing Mrs S investments on 14 April 2020 (Figure X). It should then 
calculate the overall price that couldve been achieved had the same investments been sold 
on 6 April 2020 instead (Figure Y).
If Figure Y is greater than Figure X, J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited must pay Mrs S 
the difference between Figure Y and Figure X. If Figure X is greater than or equal to Figure 
Y, then no redress is payable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman