DRN-2570322
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way BISL Limited administered his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy through BISL  an intermediary  on 27 July 2020 for 
12 months. BISL charged Mr K £488.84 for the policy.
This was a black box policy, and the terms said the black box needed to be fitted in the car 
within 14 days of the policy start date, or the policy would be cancelled. This was normally 
done by an engineer. But due to the global pandemic the timescale was extended and Mr K 
was sent a self-fit box by the insurer.
BISL wrote to Mr K on 19 August 2020 to say the policy would be cancelled on 
28 August 2020 as the black box hadnt been installed. BISL says Mr K had phoned to say 
that hed fitted the black box on 24 August 2020 but it was causing issues with his car. But 
BISL just cancelled the policy on 28 August 2020. 
After cancellation, BISL refunded Mr K £410.98. This meant Mr K was charged £42.86 pro-
rata premium for the time on cover, and £35 cancellation fee.
BISL has since acknowledged it shouldve done more before cancelling the policy, as Mr K 
had notified it of the problems he was having. So, BISL waived the cancellation fee of £35, 
and it paid Mr K £50 for the inconvenience caused and £10 for the cost of his calls. BISL has 
also confirmed Mr K doesnt need to declare this cancellation to other insurers.
But Mr K also completed a chargeback request through his bank for the original amount 
charged (£488.84) which was successful. As a result, BISL says Mr K needs to pay back the 
money he owes, so £453.84. Once Mr K pays this back, he wouldve paid BISL £42.86, 
which is the pro-rata premium for the time his car was insured. BISL says this will be 
retained by the insurer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted the policy terms said that if the black 
box wasnt fitted, the policy would be cancelled. She also said BISL had accepted it hadnt 
done everything right. But she thought what BISL had done to put things right was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr K wasnt happy with our investigators findings. He doesnt think its fair for BISL to 
charge him anything when his car wasnt insured. Hes also said this has had an impact on 
his No Claims Discount (NCD). Mr K says hes happy to pay BISL back £410.98, but not the 
£453.84 its asking. He also says hed need to pay this in instalments. Overall, Mr K doesnt 
think BISL has treated him fairly.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL sold and administered this policy, but it isnt the insurer. I can only consider what BISL 
has done here. I cant consider anything thats the insurers responsibility as part of this 
complaint.
BISL has accepted it shouldve done more before it cancelled the policy, as Mr K had been 
in touch to say he was experiencing problems when trying to fit the black box. But based on 
everything Ive seen, BISL hasnt charged Mr K anything for the policy. It waived the 
cancellation fee. The amount outstanding is only due because Mr K received the refund 
twice (once through BISL, and once through his bank). And the pro-rata premium that BISL 
is asking Mr K to pay will be going to the insurer, so I dont think I can hold BISL responsible 
for charging this.
Id just like to clarify that BISL has confirmed that Mr K was insured between 27 July and 
28 August 2020. If hed made a claim during that time, the insurer wouldve needed to 
consider it under the terms of the policy.
Mr K says its BISLs responsibility that he received the refund twice  it wouldve known hed 
done the chargeback request through his bank. But I can see that it was clear from the 
cancellation letter that BISL would be refunding Mr K, so there was no need for Mr K to get 
in touch with his bank. Its not clear why BISL didnt defend the chargeback request. But that 
doesnt change the fact that Mr K has received the refund twice.
Taking everything into account, I dont think BISL has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
asking Mr K to pay £453.84. I think BISL should get in touch with Mr K to set up an 
affordable repayment plan.
Ive considered if BISL caused Mr K unnecessary distress and inconvenience that it should 
compensate him for. BISL has already paid Mr K £50 for the inconvenience caused, and £10 
towards his phone costs.
I think what BISL has paid Mr K fairly compensates him for any issues. Mr K is unhappy that 
hes now effectively lost a month of building his NCD  but theres no guarantee he couldve 
kept this policy due to the issues he was having. I also dont think a month is significant 
enough to warrant any further compensation. So, taking everything into account, I dont think 
theres anything else BISL needs to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman