DRN-3873727
The complaint
Mr S says Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has wrongly taken premiums 
for a life and critical illness policy. 
  
What happened
The background to this complaint is mostly known to all parties due to a previous linked 
complaint dealt with by the Financial Ombudsman Service. I have summarised the key parts 
relevant for Mr S current complaint.
In May 2020 Mr S applied for a life and critical illness policy (May LCI policy) with L&G 
through his independent financial adviser (IFA). After checking the medical information 
recorded, Mr S found that his online application hadnt been updated with everything that 
hed disclosed. Mr S detailed the inaccuracies that needed updating and sent this 
information to his IFA. 
L&G informed Mr S IFA that the additional medical information provided by Mr S hadnt 
impacted on the terms offered for Mr S May LCI policy. Mr S provided instruction for the 
May LCI policy to commence, and cover began on 30 May. 
Despite Mr S May LCI policy starting, Mr S remained concerned that hed not received 
confirmation from L&G that it had reviewed and accepted all the medical information that 
hed disclosed. And he was also unable to view the changes notified on his online 
application. 
In June, a new application (June LCI policy) was submitted to L&G with all of Mr S medical 
information included. L&G assessed this application and agreed to offer cover to Mr S on the 
same terms as previously offered under the May LCI policy. 
Mr S says he instructed his IFA to cancel the May LCI policy. But L&G didnt receive this 
instruction. L&G has explained that activation of the June LCI policy wouldve automatically 
cancelled Mr S May LCI policy.
Mr S received instructions from L&G on how to activate the June LCI policy. Mr S has 
explained that due to personal circumstances he wasnt able to respond to this 
communication.
In October L&G sent Mr S an email titled Final reminder- important update on your 
insurance application. Mr S was asked to login to his online account to activate the June LCI 
policy. Mr S contacted L&G as he was having trouble accessing his online account.
When contacting L&G, Mr S provided details for the May LCI policy so that his details could 
be found on L&Gs system. Mr S told the adviser The first application is the one that youre 
taking money for I believe however weve had to resubmit the same policies because there 
were so many inaccuracies on the first one. 
 
The adviser (in respect of the May LCI policy) said the policy was live and youre being 
covered. We have extra information which they have said in underwriting there is no change 
to the policy. Thats the one Im looking at. The ones you are getting online are just wanting 
a response so I would just ignore that. Mr S says on the advice of the adviser he ignored the 
email to activate his June LCI policy believing there was no further action required from him. 
Mr S complained to L&G in November 2021 saying he didnt want to proceed with the May 
LCI policy because of the inaccurate medical information held by L&G at the time of his 
application, and that L&G shouldnt have taken payments for this policy. 
L&G responded to Mr S complaint saying that it never received instruction to cancel Mr S 
May LCI policy, and premiums have continued to be taken since. L&G confirmed the June 
LCI policy had been offered on the same terms as Mr S May LCI policy so the medical 
information disclosed hadnt changed its terms of offer. L&G explained that during the call 
made in October 2020 Mr S was aware that he was still paying premiums for the May LCI 
policy. L&G offered £100 in recognition of the delay in responding to Mr S complaint.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with L&Gs response and brought his complaint to this service. Mr S said 
L&G are at fault for not commencing the replacement June 2020 and as such I continued to 
pay premiums on the initial May 2020 policy application which I had made clear should not 
proceed due to the numerous issues we had encountered with the applications. 
The investigator found that the service provided by L&G was reasonable and so didnt ask 
L&G to do anything in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr S said (amongst other things):
-The May 2020 application was not valid as it still contained inaccurate health 
information which as we know and as you will no doubt also accept that inaccurate 
health information on a life insurance policy can invalidate cover as the business 
were not able to underwrite the application correctly. This is the reason why we had 
to complete the June 2020 applications.
-After being informed on several occasions by L&G advisors on the 9th October 2020 
to ignore the email reminders after the problems with L&Gs online system preventing 
me from starting the June policy it was understandable that I would assume that the 
new June policy would commence and in doing so cancel the May 2020 policy. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything that has been provided.
Inaccurate health information on May LCI policy
Mr S strongly feels that The May 2020 application was not valid as it still contained 
inaccurate health information. Ive considered Mr S comments but I dont agree. Ill explain 
why. 
L&G couldve been clearer in detailing to Mr S exactly what medical conditions it had 
considered when it wrote to him in June 2020 confirming it had received updated medical information for his May LCI policy. One of the letters specifically referred to family history 
and.. your cyst. L&G accept that it shouldve detailed all the medical disclosures made by Mr 
S at the time. 
The email from the business development manager for L&G to Mr S IFA explained My 
understanding from this is that the added information wont be shown on the policy even 
though were aware of this. We know about the information but cant in anyway confirm this 
back to the policy holder as its [sic] had no impact. Mr S IFA subsequently informed Mr S 
as you can see they are clearly saying the additional information had no impact. If you keep 
this email, I would say that is proof that they have noted the additional answers. 
Mr S felt more reassured in making a second application to replace the May LCI policy as he 
didnt feel confident that L&G had considered all the medical disclosures hed made. But I 
think the information provided to Mr S IFA was reasonable and offered sufficient 
reassurance that the May LCI policy did include consideration of all the medical disclosures 
made by Mr S to L&G. Premiums continued to be collected on the May LCI policy and cover 
remained in force. 
L&G has confirmed that even after Mr S submitted a new application for the June LCI policy, 
including up to date medical disclosures, the policy offered to Mr S in response to this 
application was on the same terms as the May LCI policy. So although Mr S lost faith in 
L&Gs application process, Im satisfied the additional medical information provided by Mr S 
made no material difference to the terms offered by L&G. For the reasons provided I wont 
be asking L&G to do anything in response to this complaint. 
Instruction to cancel May LCI policy
Its not disputed that L&G didnt receive instruction from Mr S directly, or his IFA, to cancel 
the May LCI policy. So I cant hold L& G responsible for not cancelling the policy and its 
reasonable that premiums continued to be collected. It is evident that Mr S was aware that 
premiums were being collected in October 2020, as he referred to this on the call with the 
adviser when he explained The first application is the one that youre taking money for I 
believe. For the reasons explained I wont be asking L&G to do anything in response to this 
complaint. 
June LCI policy not commencing 
Mr S says that he wouldve provided instruction to start the June LCI policy in October 2020, 
but he was told to ignore the email that required him to activate this policy. 
I don't have to make a finding on whether or not Mr S would have taken out the June LCI 
policy in October 2020 because it wont make any material difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S says replacement of the May LCI policy with the June LCI policy wouldve offered more 
certainty in the event of a claim, because of the medical disclosures made when the June 
LCI policy was applied for. Ive considered Mr S comments, but I dont agree. The terms 
offered for the May LCI policy and June LCI policy were exactly the same. So I think its 
more likely than not that a claim under either policy would be treated in the same way. Any 
issues that arise in the event of a claim would be subject to a separate complaint.
Although not satisfactory to Mr S, L&G also offered Mr S reassurance that it had considered 
the additional medical disclosures hed made under the May LCI policy, and the additional 
information had no impact.    Ive seen that the premium offered for the June LCI policy was slightly higher than the 
premium being paid for Mr S May LCI policy- £35.53 and £35.01 respectively. So even if the 
June LCI policy had replaced the May LCI one, the only material difference to Mr S wouldve 
been the slightly higher premium that he wouldve had to pay. 
        
Overall even if the June LCI policy had been activated as Mr S says he was hoping would 
happen, it wouldnt have made any material difference to Mr S, or his ability to claim on his 
LCI policy for the reasons Ive explained. So I wont be asking L&G to do anything in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman