DRN-3680064
The complaint
Ms M complains PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) unfairly charged inactivity fees on 
her prepaid currency card account. 
What happened
Ms M says in early December 2019 she was looking to buy currency at a UK airport and was 
advised by the currency exchange desk agent, to purchase a prepaid currency card instead. 
Ms M says she specifically asked if there were any charges for the prepaid card and was 
told there wouldnt be. 
Ms M says she never made full use of the prepaid card after her initial £100 deposit, due to 
the Covid pandemic preventing overseas travel. 
Ms M says at a later date she saw an article regarding hidden charges on this type of 
prepaid card and discovered when checking her online account in December 2021, she was 
charged around Euro 27 by way of inactivity fees from January 2021. 
Ms M says she wasnt informed of the monthly inactivity charges by PrePay and if she had, 
she would have taken steps to avoid this. Ms M says PrePay have misled her regarding the 
charges and these should be refunded along with compensation for the time she has spent 
dealing with the matter.
PrePay says it has charged the inactivity fees in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and it was up to Ms M to have read and understood these and by purchasing the 
card she had accepted those terms and conditions. PrePay says the card was multi-currency 
and Ms M could have made small purchases to avoid the inactivity charges. PrePay felt it 
had done nothing wrong. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the terms and conditions of the prepaid card confirm there would be an 
inactivity fee and it was Ms Ms responsibility to have read the terms and conditions. 
The investigator says she wouldnt have expected the agent to have read the full terms and 
conditions to Ms M as a paper copy was provided at the time the card was purchased. 
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how Ive come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Ms M to discover she had been charged 
inactivity fees on her prepaid currency card account, after she believed she had established 
there were no charges. When looking at this complaint I will consider if PrePay acted unfairly 
when it charged Ms M the inactivity fees on her prepaid currency card. 
Ms Ms complaint centres around the fact when she purchased the prepaid currency card at 
the airport she asked the agent at the time, if there were any fees to pay and she was told 
there wasnt.  Ms M says she was not pre advised by PrePay that charges for inactivity were 
going to be charged during the period between January 2021 and December 2021. 
Ms M doesnt feel the terms and conditions written in small print is sufficient for PrePay to 
charge the fees it has, given the circumstances. 
I understand the points Ms M makes here but Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I say 
this because firstly, I can only rely on factual evidence presented to me, and here theres 
nothing to confirm the conversation Ms M had with the agent the day she purchased the 
prepaid currency card. In all likelihood, as the investigator has said, while its possible the 
agent may have referred to no fees for the card, without knowing what questions were asked 
at that time, it wouldnt be possible to know what the agent might be referring to specifically. 
So, with that in mind although Ms M feels strongly about what she was told at the time, and 
has referred to two legislative sources, thats something she would need to take up with a 
legal professional as its not something for this service to consider, especially as we have no 
material evidence to know what was actually said that day. 
Whats important here is Ms M would have been handed a copy of the terms and conditions 
of the prepaid currency card, and in those it does state inactivity fees are payable and it 
remains Ms Ms responsibility to read and understand those terms and conditions. 
While I understand Ms M wasnt able to make full use of the card due to the Covid pandemic 
and thats unfortunate, I cant hold PrePay responsible for that. In fact, if Ms M had read the 
terms and conditions, as the prepaid card was multi-currency she could have used this in the 
UK for small purchases to avoid any inactivity fees. 
Ms M also says she had no prior notification of any fees, but while Ms M may not agree, 
PrePay arent obliged to pre-advise its customers of the fees already stated in its terms and 
conditions. 
Its worth saying Ms M has confirmed to this service she had access to her prepaid currency 
card account online, which she could have checked much sooner than she did, which would 
have highlighted the inactivity fees earlier.
While Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied that Prepay have applied 
the fees correctly here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman