DRN-4092422
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about a second charge loan she took out in 2007, and which is now 
administered by Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as Acenden. She has 
explained that due to illness related financial difficulties, she is having to sell her home to 
repay her debts, and is unhappy that Acenden wouldnt agree to accept less than she owes 
in settlement of the account. Miss B has also said that she cant afford the combined amount 
she is paying to Acenden on the loan subject to this complaint and her main mortgage. She 
is also unhappy about the amount she has paid toward the loan, given how much she 
borrowed and how much she still owes. 
What happened
Miss B borrowed £22,000 plus fees in the summer of 2007. The loan was to be repaid over 
25 years and the variable interest rate at that time was 18.1%, resulting in a contractual 
monthly payment (CMP) of £312.06. 
Since being advanced, the mortgage has been transferred to the current lender. It is not 
authorised to administer mortgages or secured loans, and so it appointed third-party 
administrators to do so. Kensington trading as Acenden has provided this service since early 
2019. 
Not long after the loan was advanced it fell into arrears. Due to the arrears on the account, 
the original lender took legal action to repossess the property. A suspended possession 
order (SPO) was issued by the courts on 10 February 2009. The order was suspended on 
the basis of Miss B paying the contractual monthly instalment plus £50 each month. 
Miss B has told us that she subsequently became ill and was unable to work for some time. 
This meant that she was unable to make payments to the loan. When she contacted 
Acenden at the beginning of 2019, she hadnt made any payments in the previous three 
years. At this point she explained to Acenden that she was able to start making payments 
again and wanted to enter into a payment arrangement. Acenden completed an income and 
expenditure assessment and determined that Miss Bs finances were such that she couldnt 
afford to make any payments to the loan, so it declined to set up a payment arrangement. 
Miss B complained about Acenden refusing to accept payments. The complaint was 
resolved in a telephone call and at the beginning of March 2019 Miss B started making 
payments to the loan. For the following three months she paid approximately £180, which 
was over £120 less than the then CMP. This was increased in June 2019, but only to £200, 
which was still significantly below the CMP. 
In light of the history of the account, Acenden made the decision to ask the courts to 
continue the repossession process. The courts agreed and a warrant was issued with an 
eviction date of 14 November 2019. Miss B was informed of this on 31 October 2019.
The following day Miss B contacted Acenden, and a payment arrangement was agreed 
where she would pay the CMP plus an additional approximately £150. As such, the eviction 
was cancelled. Other than during Covid-19 payment deferrals in 2020, Miss B had 
maintained this arrangement to the point the complaint was referred to this service, including 
increasing the payment to reflect a slightly higher CMP because of the payment deferrals. 
On 15 January 2022 Miss B emailed Acenden with a proposal for settlement of the loan. The 
amount offered was significantly less than the total outstanding balance on the loan.
Acenden responded, assuming Miss B was implying that the sale of the property would not 
raise enough money to clear her main mortgage and the balance of the loan. As such, it 
explained its process for agreeing a shortfall sale. This involved an assessment by it of any 
offer received on the property, the valuation of the property and Miss Bs financial situation. 
In March 2022 Acenden reviewed an offer that had been received for the property. It 
determined that the sale proceeds would be sufficient for Miss B to be able to clear both her 
main mortgage and the second charge loan in full. As such, it declined the offer of settlement 
shed made. 
Miss B wasnt happy with this decision and contacted us about the matter. She explained 
that when the house was sold, she wanted to be able to pay all her creditors and be left with 
some funds for herself, so she had made an offer to Acenden of less than the amount owed 
to settle the loan. We explained that before we could become involved Acenden had to be 
given the opportunity to respond to her concerns. As such, Miss B referred her complaint to 
Acenden. Acenden didnt respond to the complaint. 
After the appropriate period of time, Miss B confirmed that she still wanted to pursue her 
complaint through this service. She explained to one of our investigators that she felt that 
due to the charges that had been added to the loan, the balance kept increasing and her 
payments werent reducing the amount owed. Miss B also raised concerns about Acenden 
reporting adverse information on her credit file, which had meant that she couldnt 
re-mortgage her home.
One of our investigators considered Miss Bs complaint. She recommended that it be 
partially upheld. She concluded that in the circumstances it was not unreasonable or unfair 
for Acenden, on behalf of Miss Bs lender, to decline to accept the offer of less than the 
amount owed to settle the account. She also confirmed that even where an arrangement to 
pay had been set up, it was not unreasonable for Acenden to accurately report the 
circumstances of the account. However, the investigator was not persuaded that Acenden 
had treated Miss B fairly in relation to her financial difficulties. She concluded that it should 
have done more, and should have stopped charging interest on the account in January 2019 
when Miss B asked it too. She also recommended that Acenden pay Miss B £150 for the 
upset she had been caused by its handling of the account. 
Miss B didnt accept the investigators conclusions as she believed that interest on the 
account should have been frozen in 2016 when she got into financial difficulties. She also 
said that she believed that her credit file should be amended to reflect that she had made all 
required payments since early 2019 and so not show in the red. 
Acenden confirmed that it didnt accept the investigators view, but didnt explain why or 
provide any further comment. As such, it was decided that the complaint should be referred 
to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2023 in which I set out my conclusions about 
this complaint and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Miss B is unhappy that Acenden said no to her proposal for settlement of the loan. I can 
understand her disappointment at this decision, but a lender or its administrator doesnt have to agree to settle an account for less than is owed. We would expect a business to consider 
allowing a shortfall sale if the property was worth less than the amount owed on the main 
mortgage and the secured loan. However, in that situation the second charge lender would 
still have the option to pursue the borrower for the shortfall amount. In a situation such as 
this, where the property sale would result in the borrower receiving enough to clear the entire 
amount owed on the main mortgage and the secured loan, I cant find that it was wrong for 
Acenden to expect Miss B to do so and for it to refuse to settle the account for less.
As for Miss Bs credit file, I would confirm that where a lender or mortgage administrator 
reports data to credit reference agencies, it is required to report accurate information. How 
that information is documented on the credit reference agencys records is not something in 
the lenders control. 
The excerpt from Miss Bs credit file that she has provided show that one credit reference 
agency is reporting the loan as being 6 months late for the last five years and that there 
was a payment arrangement in place. I am aware that the months late descriptor is that 
particular agencys way of describing the equivalent number of CMPs the arrears add up to  
six being the maximum it reports. This does not indicate that Acenden reported inaccurate 
information to the credit reference agency, as Miss Bs arrears amount to more than the 
equivalent of six months CMP. As such, I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
In relation to how Acenden has behaved toward Miss B in her financial difficulties, a lender is 
required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation. This is especially so if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved. 
That wasnt the situation in Miss Bs case. For long-term difficulties, a lender must look at all 
possible ways to help. This might include transferring a mortgage or loan from a repayment 
basis to an interest-only basis for a period; deferring interest; reducing the interest rate 
charged, or capitalisation of arrears. Any such actions must be balanced against the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. A lender isnt 
required to agree to whatever the borrower wants, it has to be satisfied that the forbearance 
will actually help and not just delay the inevitable.
In this case, when Miss B first said she was able to start making payments again in early 
2019, Acenden completed an assessment of her financial situation. Based on the 
information Miss B provided, it determined that she couldnt afford to make any form of 
payment to the loan, as had been the case for some time. After Miss B complained Acenden 
allowed her to pay what she wanted to for six months. The sums paid were significantly less 
than the CMP and nothing was paid toward the arrears, which clearly indicated that Miss B 
still couldnt afford the loan.
I have considered whether Acenden should have done more at this stage, such as reducing 
the interest rate payable on the loan. As I have explained above, any forbearance put in 
place must actually help the situation, rather than simply delay it. I am not persuaded that 
the evidence indicates that Miss Bs financial situation had stabilised such that Acenden 
could put in place any formal forbearance arrangements at that time. 
Subsequently, given the level of arrears continued to increase and as Miss B wasnt making 
any payments toward that balance, Acenden decided to continue the possession process. 
This doesnt appear to have been an unreasonable decision in the circumstances as while 
Miss B had started making payments, the arrears continued to increase and, overall, the 
situation with the debt continued to deteriorate, albeit at a slower rate. The court agreed to 
the application for a warrant of eviction. 
At this point Miss B committed to making payments toward the arrears which Acenden 
assessed would allow the arrears to be repaid within the term, so the eviction was stopped. Following that to the time this complaint was raised with us, Miss B consistently paid what 
she committed to doing, and the arrears balance reduced. I think this was a reasonable 
arrangement in the circumstances and appears to have been affordable and sustainable, 
with Miss B reporting that her other commitments are up to date. So I dont consider that 
Acenden needed to do more at that point. That said, Acenden and Miss B need to continue 
to communicate about the loan and Acenden should review the situation periodically to 
ensure that it is putting in place appropriate forbearance measures whenever necessary.
Miss B didnt accept my conclusions. She said that some key areas of the complaint were 
not highlighted or addressed. She made four points:
1. Her request for the interest to be frozen was not addressed in early 2019;
2. It was not good management of the loan for charges to be added to the balance, which 
then cancelled out the payments she made;
3. I did not compare the amount owed with the amount originally borrowed, which would 
highlight that something was not fundamentally quite right. It was highlighted that the 
amount originally borrowed had been paid back, and that it was just interest and charges 
that had accrued over the years that were outstanding.
4. The complaint had been with us for 14 months and yet she believed that I had issued my 
conclusions within 24 hours. She considers that the outcome I reached was biased. 
Miss B said that she would be seeking legal advice, but nothing further was received by the 
response deadline, nor was an extension to the time to respond requested.
Kensington didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that it received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has highlighted that I issued my provisional decision the day after she contacted us 
to check that we had received some of her submissions. She has indicated that she thinks I 
formed my conclusions within the following 24 hours. I can assure her that was not the case. 
Miss Bs complaint was allocated to me in February 2023 and, following some further 
information being obtained, I reached my conclusions. The fact that she called this service 
the day before I issued my provisional decision was simply a coincidence and not the reason 
the provisional decision was issued when it was.
I am sorry Miss B considers that my conclusions were biased. I can assure her that I 
reached my conclusions after careful consideration of all of the evidence from both her and 
Acenden. I can understand that she is disappointed in the conclusion I have reached, but I 
can assure her that I am not biased in favour of either the current lender or Acenden as the 
administrator.
Miss B has said that I have not addressed the matter of her request in early 2019 for the 
interest to be frozen. In my provisional decision explained the concepts of how a lender or 
administrator would be expected to behave to a consumer who was emerging from a 
prolonged period of financial difficulties. While I did not specifically state that Acenden didnt 
need to take the action Miss B had requested, I considered the situation and the events that 
took place, to determine what would have been expected of Acenden during that period. I 
concluded that it had acted appropriately and didnt need to do more. 
In addition, Miss B has raised the concern that it was poor management of the account to 
add charges which negated the payments she was making. This was not a specific point that Miss B raised in her complaint, but as I have said above, I considered everything that had 
happened since Miss B informed Acenden her situation had improved at the start of 2019. 
This included the interest and charges that had been applied to the account. For clarity, 
there were only two charges applied in 2019 after Miss B started making payments and both 
were applied when she was paying significantly less than the CMP and there wasnt a 
payment arrangement in place. In those circumstances we wouldnt find the charges were 
inappropriately applied. 
Miss B came to us with a complaint about the events that occurred at the beginning of 2019 
and thereafter. That is the complaint that I dealt with in my provisional decision. If Miss B 
wishes to complain about events before that point, in relation to the interest and any charges 
added to the loan during the period when she wasnt making payments and before that, it 
would need to be raised as a specific complaint and the previous administrator would need 
to be given the opportunity to respond to the complaint. 
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision in 
light of Miss Bs comments. Having done so, my conclusions have remained the same.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 
30 May 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman