DRN-3401418
The complaint
Mrs K complains that British Gas Insurance Services Limited (British Gas) mishandled her 
claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have also been set out 
extensively by the investigator before me, so I dont intend to repeat everything again here. 
Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it in part, for the reasons set out below:
I appreciate that British Gas initially discussed the option of providing a replacement 
oven with Mrs K, as the part needed to repair it wasnt originally available. And I 
accept that theyve handled things poorly by leading Mrs K to believe that this was 
going to happen, where there was still a possibility of the part being obtained. 
However, British Gas have since been able to source that the required part, such that 
the oven can be repaired, meaning a replacement is no longer necessary.
There is nothing in the policy that obligates British Gas to provide Mrs K with a 
replacement oven in these circumstances, which states that a replacement will only 
be offered if a repair is not possible. So, even though British Gas prematurely offered 
this as an option to Mrs K initially, I consider it would be disproportionate to ask them 
to provide a replacement, given that a repair is now possible, (and of which the cost 
of the spare part is only £14, compared to a replacement oven which would be 
around £3,000). I understand that Mrs K considers a replacement to be the only 
acceptable solution, but this is not something I will be directing British Gas to do in 
these circumstances.
In terms of Mrs Ks radiators, British Gas have since agreed to replace all three 
radiators free of charge, which I think is a fair and reasonable offer. So, I do not 
consider it necessary to explore this issue any further (excepting the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs K by British Gass handling of her radiator replacement, 
which Ive addressed below). I understand there have been further ongoing issues 
with Mrs Ks radiators. But if she is unhappy with anything British Gas have done 
since their original final response to her complaint, this will need to be raised as part 
of a separate complaint with the business first. 
In terms of British Gass handling of Mrs Ks claim, I can see that it has fallen below 
an acceptable standard and, at times, has been considerably poor. I can see, for 
example that she has been given various conflicting and inconsistent information 
about her radiator replacement, appointments and whether or not the oven was going 
to be repaired or replaced. I can also see there have been avoidable delays resolving 
the issues Mrs K has reported, including getting her radiators fitted, which likely 
exacerbated her medical conditions during the colder months. Mrs K has also 
experienced an unreasonable delay in having to wait for a part to become available 
for her oven to be repaired, which left her without a fully functioning cooker over 
Christmas. I can also see that Mrs K was misled to believe she would be receiving a 
replacement cooker, which British Gas could have handled better by managing her 
expectations more accurately (i.e. by saying that a repair will always be the primary 
option if it becomes a possibility). In addition to this, Mrs K has experienced various 
other instances of poor service such as not being called back when she was told that 
she would, and also an all-round failure to keep her updated. 
British Gas offered Mrs K £250 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But having considered the impact British Gass handling of 
Mrs Ks claim has had on her mental health and wellbeing, I do not consider this to 
be a proportionate reflection of the distress and inconvenience suffered. Our 
investigator recommended an award of £500, which I also consider to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances, in light of the poor service, delays and 
inconsistent information Mrs K has received throughout her claim. 
I understand that Mrs Ks health has deteriorated since she made her complaint to 
this service, which Im very sorry to hear, and hope that she is able to recover as 
soon as possible. I also understand that she wanted to provide more information 
about her complaint. But Id like to assure Mrs K that I have considered everything 
she has told us about being offered a replacement oven, and I dont dispute that this 
was the case. However, even if she was incorrectly promised this by British Gas, it is 
not something that I consider would be fair to ask them to do for the reasons Ive 
already stated above. It is, however, something I have taken into account when 
considering what compensation British Gas should pay, given that they have clearly 
given her misleading information. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mrs K, who understandably feels strongly 
about her complaint. But for the reasons given above, I will not be asking British Gas to 
provide her with a replacement oven on top of the compensation awarded in this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Mrs K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their handling of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman