DRN-3778990
The complaint
S, a limited company in liquidation, complains that delays by National Westminster Bank Plc
(NatWest) in providing information led to additional costs.
S wants NatWest to pay more than its offered so far.
What happened
The liquidation of S is being handled by a busines I will refer to as C. C says it made
repeated requests to NatWest for certain documents. As NatWest delayed providing the
documents, C says this led to increased costs totalling £2,890.50.
NatWest offered to pay £750 but C on behalf of S didnt accept.
The investigator considered Ss complaint and recommended that NatWest reimburse S all
the costs caused by the delay. NatWest disagrees with the investigators opinion as it 
doesnt think the costs that C has detailed are reasonable.
After considering Ss complaint, I issued a provisional decision on 22 September 2022. It 
said:
This service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to us. The rules that 
were governed by  known as the DISP rules  set out which complaints we can and 
cant consider. The rules are set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
and can be found in its handbook.
Before we can consider a complaint thats been made to this service, we first need to 
be satisfied that the person bringing the complaint (or their representative) is eligible 
to complaint.
To be an eligible complainant, the complainant must be a person  whether a 
natural or legal person  that meets the definition of one of the entities set out in 
DISP 2.7.3.
DISP 2.7.6 states that:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the 
respondent:
(1) The complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic 
money holder of the respondent;
The limited company S is the eligible complainant here because it was a customer of
NatWest. But as S is in liquidation, the directors dont have authority to bring the 
complaint. Instead it is the liquidator, C that represents S.
In principle we can consider the complaint from S as its brought by the liquidator 
about matters relating to Ss relationship with NatWest. However, the loss that S 
complains about isnt one that S has suffered. Instead, its the liquidator, C which has 
incurred the additional costs. The investigator asked C to confirm who would end up 
bearing the additional fees if NatWest doesnt pay them. C confirms that either C or 
the creditors of S would be responsible for the additional liquidation fees. For me to 
say that NatWest should pay these costs, Id have to be satisfied that they were 
incurred by S and represent a loss to it as the eligible complainant here. As I dont 
find that S lost out financially, I cant require NatWest to pay more than its already 
offered.
As I dont consider that NatWest should be ordered to pay more than its already 
offered, I havent considered the reasonableness or otherwise of the costs that C 
seeks on behalf of S. But as NatWest already made an offer to pay S £750, if S 
accepts my provisional decision, I will require NatWest to pay that amount.
Further submissions
NatWest confirmed that it doesnt have anything to add to my provisional decision but S 
disagrees with my provisional findings.
In summary the liquidator says that theres a misunderstanding on my part about who is 
responsible for the fees of the liquidation and who would ultimately suffer if NatWest doesnt 
pay the additional fees. The liquidator explains that S is responsible for bearing the 
additional fees in the liquidation because the costs of the liquidation are paid from the 
realised assets of S. The liquidator raises an invoice to S for the fees which it pays and then 
reclaims the VAT on the invoice. 
The liquidator says that its the liquidator or creditors who would ultimately suffer if the 
additional fees arent paid by NatWest. Either because after realising Ss assets, there arent 
enough funds to settle the liquidation costs (including the liquidators fees) meaning the 
liquidator doesnt get paid. Or there are enough funds to pay the liquidation costs in full 
(including the liquidators fees) but then theres not enough left to pay anything to the 
creditors. In this scenario  the creditors lose out. However, this doesnt mean that either the 
liquidator or the creditors would be responsible for the costs  it will always be S which is 
responsible for bearing the fees and therefore suffers a loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint S but my thinking in my provisional decision hasnt changed and I 
will try and explain why. As I understand things from the liquidators explanation  it seeks 
payment of its fees from the assets of S. So, the fact that the liquidator has incurred higher 
fees than it otherwise wouldve, means that the realisation of Ss assets may not stretch to 
cover those increased costs.  
Although its true that S is responsible for the fees - if theres a shortfall after realising the 
assets  this impacts either the liquidator or the creditors. This would be the case regardless 
of whether the fees had increased due to any additional work on the part of the liquidator. 
So, I realise that S is responsible for paying the liquidators fees. But I dont consider that, in 
the circumstances here, the additional fees ultimately represent a loss to S in a way that 
means I could fairly and impartially tell NatWest to pay them to S. It follows that I dont uphold Ss complaint in the sense that NatWest has already made an offer that I think is fair.
My final decision
I consider that NatWest has already made an offer that I consider is fair. So, my final 
decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay S £750.i
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman