DRN-3426116
The complaint
Mr B disputed two transactions on his account with Revolut Ltd. He complained that Revolut 
took too long to deal with the chargeback for these, and that it provided poor customer 
service.
What happened
On 1 August 2021, Mr B contacted Revolut by chat. He wanted to dispute two payment to a 
car rental firm which had been debited on 10 July. One was for £160.26 and the other for 
£501.65. Mr B said hed tried to contact the merchant but with little luck.
Revolut said it had raised the claim and would update Mr B on 2 September.
The debits put Mr Bs account into a negative balance, so he wasnt able to use the account. 
Any credits went towards the negative balance.
Over the next few weeks, Mr B contacted Revolut frequently by chat. He provided a 
screenshot from the merchant saying its account had been debited with the disputed 
amounts. He also told Revolut he was finding it hard, and couldnt eat. 
Revolut told Mr B that its chargeback team would have an outcome by 2 September. It 
offered him three months free on his plan, which was worth £38.97, but this would have 
been credited to the negative balance. Mr B refused it, saying the hard time for him was 
now. Its clear from the chat messages that Mr B was frustrated and increasingly angry about 
Revoluts responses.
Mr B complained. In its final response on 24 August, Revolut explained that chargeback 
claims are provided by card issuing companies, and referred Mr B to its blog post and help 
centre to read more about the process. Revolut said that although Mr B might have expected 
to have the dispute solved sooner, the timeframes were set by the card scheme, not by 
Revolut. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Meanwhile the disputed transactions 
were credited back to Mr Bs account on 1 September.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said she could see that Revolut had 
processed the chargeback correctly and had made him aware of the timescales and the 
process, and had offered him a goodwill gesture of £38.97, which was equivalent to three 
months of his plan.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he couldnt see that the adjudicator had gone into the length of 
time and poor service during the chargeback process. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the chat messages that Mr B was very frustrated with Revolut. I can 
understand why he was upset, because the disputed transactions had put his account into a 
negative balance, meaning that any credits went towards the negative balance. He told 
Revolut this meant he couldnt eat. 
In terms of the chargeback itself, its accurate that the process is run by the card schemes. 
They set timescales for each stage of the process  and Revolut wouldnt have had any 
control over those timescales. I recognise that Mr B thought it should be quicker because 
hed provided a screenshot which he said showed that the merchant had confirmed it had 
paid back the debits. But this alone wouldnt be enough for Revolut to end Mr Bs claim 
which Revolut had referred for a chargeback. The chargeback had to go through its normal 
processes in a standard timescale. So I dont accept that Revolut could have done anything 
to speed up the chargeback process.
I have, however, looked at whether Revolut could have given Mr B a temporary credit, and 
whether it acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it dealt with Mr B. Mr B asked 
specifically for this on 18 August, when he said Surely you could credit my account if youve 
been successful with the charge back and if it turns out to be unsuccessful then youd claw it 
back from me. It will be successful though.  
No temporary credit was provided. I asked Revolut why it didnt offer this, given that Mr B 
had forcefully said on the chat messages that he wasnt able to eat. Revolut replied that it 
had passed the request to its chargeback team, which had refused a temporary credit on the 
grounds that it didnt know whether the outcome would be in Mr Bs favour. It also said that 
as Mr Bs account was in debit, a temporary credit wouldnt help as it would just cover the 
negative balance. And it said that putting sole responsibility on Revolut for any financial 
difficulties arising from the disputed transaction wasnt fair, and the chargeback wasnt a 
statutory right in any case.
Ive checked Mr Bs account, and certainly he had a low balance around that time, generally 
considerably under £100. Depending on when it was made, it appears that a temporary 
refund would have put him into credit, but only just. I can understand why Revolut didnt 
accept that Mr Bs evidence proved that the chargeback would be successful  because a 
chargeback is never certain. I understand why Revolut refused the temporary credit here 
and there was no obligation on it to provide one. But equally, it could always have clawed a 
temporary refund back if the claim proved unsuccessful.
But importantly, here, Ive seen no evidence from Mr Bs account statements that he 
regularly used this account for living expenses including food and essential bills at around 
that time. If he had consistently done so, Id have said that Revolut might have acted unfairly 
by failing to provide a temporary credit when Mr B had said he was in financial difficulties. 
Theres no obligation for a bank to provide a temporary credit, though it may be fair to do so 
in certain circumstances, such as if Mr B normally and demonstrably paid his essential living 
expenses from the account, and said he was in financial difficulties. But the evidence of the 
statements shows that wasnt the case here. 
Mr B has also complained about the service which Revolut provided after he contacted it on 
1 August. Ive read the chat messages, during which Mr B made it clear that he wasnt 
satisfied. I recognise that it would have been frustrating to receive the same reply repeatedly 
 that it was the specialist chargeback team that was dealing with it and no update was available. I consider that some minor aspects of Revoluts service could have been better - 
for example, Revolut asked for the merchants information when Mr B had already supplied 
it. But in terms of a substantive solution, there was little the chat advisers could do when 
they simply had no information from the chargeback, and werent likely to get it until the 
chargeback process ended at the start of September. Its advisers remained polite and I think 
they tried their best in difficult circumstances. So I dont consider that Revolut need pay Mr B 
any compensation for the way in which it handled his chat messages or complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman