DRN-2274290
The complaint
Mr M complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says TFS didnt complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before it lent to him.
What happened
Mr M was approved for the below loan by TFS:
Date Capital Amount Term Monthly Repayment
March 2016 £5,000 48 months £211.83
I wrote to both parties in March 2021 setting out my provisional decision. I asked both parties 
to respond with any further information they wished me to consider before issuing my final 
decision. I set my provisional findings out as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good industry 
practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms 
complaint. 
Bearing in mind the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ms 
complaint. These are:
1. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M, to satisfy itself 
that he was in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do
so?
2. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M, to satisfy itself that 
he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way?
Turning to the first of two questions; the regulations which applied at the time, 
required TFS to carry out an assessment on whether Mr M could repay any loan in 
sustainable way.
These checks are referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
In making this affordability assessment, TFS needed to ensure any checks were 
borrower focused.
This means TFS needed to consider if any repayments Mr H made would cause
him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his finances. The 
checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to 
be reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of 
repayments and total length of the term.
It is also not sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs to
consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Finally, it is also important to note that the fact Mr Ms loan was a guarantor loan, and
therefore had the security of a guarantee, didnt remove or anyway lessen the 
obligations which applied to TFS at the time Mr M applied for the loan.
Mr M says the checks TFS completed werent reasonable and proportionate and had 
it done further checks it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him. He says at 
the time of the application of the loan he was in financial hardship and was using 
short term providers to support his income.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms position, but Im not currently minded to agree with it. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im persuaded the checks TFS completed were 
proportionate.
TFS completed an income and expenditure check on Mr M. He declared an income 
of £2,800 on his application form. TFS says it verified this amount via an online tool. 
It says this tool deemed this amount to be correct. TFS also asked Mr M to provide a 
breakdown of his main expenses.
TFS has provided our service with the breakdown of information it was provided. 
These expenses cover Mr M monthly rent/mortgage costs, living costs such as food, 
gas and electricity. It also included a payment for Mr Ms existing credit card. Taking 
all of these expenses into account it showed that Mr M had a disposable income of 
over £1,000.
A credit file search was also completed by TFS. This showed Mr M had three existing 
forms of credit  current accounts and one credit card with a limit of £500. These 
accounts were maintained well with no missed payments or arrears in the recent 
past. This information was consistent with the details that Mr M had provided to TFS.
Having considered these checks, Im satisfied they were proportionate in this 
instance.
Ultimately TFS is entitled to rely on the information that was provided to it by Mr M. 
TFS has conducted a reasonable investigation into Mr Ms finances and has 
attempted to verify this information with a credit search. These results havent shown 
contradictory information; and as such Im satisfied TFS didnt need to complete 
further checks. And as these checks showed the loan was seemingly affordable to Mr 
M; Im currently satisfied that its decision to lend was reasonable.
I appreciate Mr M has provided our service with a separate credit file search; which 
shows different results. However, it is important to note that TFS is entitled to rely on 
the information it produced at the time. And as these results didnt show conflicting information, and I cant see Mr M made TFS aware of other financial commitments; 
Im satisfied that TFS were entitled to rely on the information it had at the time. As 
such it follows that Im currently minded to say TFS checks were proportionate, and 
as such its decision to lend was fair.
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Based on the information Ive seen so far, Ive not seen any information which 
suggest TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
TFS responded accepting my provisional findings. Mr M has not responded. As the deadline 
for all submissions has expired, Ive now gone on to consider my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the file again, and in the absence of any new information, Im satisfied my 
provisional findings should remain. That is to say I do not uphold this complaint for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision. Namely, Im satisfied that TFS complete 
proportionate checks in this instance. As these checks seemingly showed Mr M could afford 
the loan, Im satisfied TFS decision to lend to him was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman