DRN-3143329
The complaint
Representatives of the estate of Mr W complain about the premiums charged by Covea 
Insurance plc for a property insurance policy.
Mr Ws estate is represented by his son, Mr W. Where I refer to Mr W within this decision, 
this should be interpreted as being his son as the representative. 
What happened
The late Mr W insured a property with Covea between 2012 and his death in 2019. Following 
his death Mr W complained that the premiums charged by Covea were excessive.
When Covea rejected the complaint, Mr W referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think Covea had done anything wrong. Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr Ws complaint that the premiums were too high is twofold. He argues that 
the initial premium charged by Covea was too high, in part because his father was deemed 
to be a high net worth individual. He also says that the amount that the premium increased 
over the years when the policy was renewed was excessive.
This policy was arranged through a broker, who Ill refer to as B. A complaint has been 
referred to our service about Bs actions and this was upheld as we didnt consider B had 
acted appropriately. That in itself isnt a reason for me to say that Covea should have acted 
differently or that the premiums it charged were excessive.
Our service wont generally say what factors an insurer can refer to when it sets a premium, 
or how those factors should be assessed when it calculates the premium it charges. Those 
are matters for the insurer to consider. 
Mr W says that the basis for considering his father to be a high net worth individual was 
flawed. Coveas position is that where contents with a value of £75,000 are to be insured, 
they will consider that to be high net worth. Mr W says that the value of £75,000 was 
excessive. Ive seen the documents prepared by Covea and submitted to the broker and the 
value of contents is given as close to £75,000. 
It seems logical to say that this was based on the information provided by the broker to 
Covea. I think its fair to say that the premiums were based on a value of contents provided 
by the broker, and there was no reason for Covea to query this value. It was entitled to rely 
on the information from the broker as accurately summarising the late Mr Ws needs.
Based on the information that was provided to Covea initially, and based on the information 
available to Covea when the policy came to be renewed, it calculated premiums and 
communicated these to the broker. Im aware that Mr W wants to be provided with details of 
how Covea calculated these premiums but Covea has said that such considerations are 
commercially sensitive as to do so would disclose which factors it takes into account and the 
weighting given to these when it calculates premiums. 
I agree with Covea here. I dont think its reasonable to ask it to provide details of how it 
calculated the premiums charged to the late Mr W. Which factors it takes into account, the 
weight it attaches to these factors and how the premium is calculated based on this is 
commercially sensitive information which Covea can reasonably decline to disclose to 
consumers. 
I do think that based on what Ive seen theres no indication that Covea acted unfairly in 
setting the premiums as it did. Its also worth observing that these quotations were passed to 
the broker and Covea could reasonably expect that a prudent and competent broker would 
confirm that the quotation being offered was based on accurate information and that the 
policyholder (in this case the late Mr W) had been informed of the details of the policy.
From what I can see, when the policy came to be renewed, Covea would write to the broker 
to invite renewal, set out the premium being charged and any changes to the policy cover 
since the previous year. When the previous policy expired, Covea would renew the policy.
Ive considered whether Covea should have done anything differently here. I acknowledge 
that it hadnt been provided any further information at the point of renewal about any differing 
needs of the late Mr W. I cant see that B contacted Covea to outline any conversations it 
had had with the late Mr W about his cover, or to query the renewal premiums. 
When someone has been with the same insurer for four renewals or more without 
engagement, Id normally expect the insurer to realise that the policyholder isnt engaging on 
the price. They dont need to reassess the risk or carry out a review, but Id want to be sure 
that any price increases applied arent taking advantage of this lack of engagement. In this 
case Covea wouldnt have been aware whether the late Mr W was or wasnt engaging, but 
Id still expect it to demonstrate that the price increases have been applied fairly and in line 
with its changing view of the risk. 
Weve been provided with a breakdown of the increases and how these relate to index 
linking, Insurance Premium Tax changes and other matter such as the introduction of a flood 
related levy. While Im satisfied Covea had no knowledge of the late Mr Ws actual 
engagement, Im satisfied that the price increases have been applied year on year to reflect 
its changing view of the risk and the lack of engagement had no bearing on this. I think an 
insurer can reasonably assume that where a broker is in contact with the consumer that 
discussions around suitability of the policy and their needs will take place at the time of 
renewal. I dont think its a requirement for Covea to check that such discussions were taking 
place, or find out the details of those discussions.
As the policy was arranged through a broker, it wouldnt be for Covea to check with the late 
Mr W whether the policy was suitable for his needs or whether there were any other matters 
which needed to be addressed. It could fairly assume that B had such conversations with the 
late Mr W, and in the absence of being told otherwise then it could proceed to renew the 
policy and collect the premium.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
. 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman