DRN-2520948
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the rate of interest that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, offered 
to him following his application for a personal loan.
What happened
Mr C applied for a personal loan with Halifax. He was expecting to be offered the loan with a 
rate of 3.5% interest, which was the indicative rate advertised on the loan by Halifax online. 
However, when his application was processed the loan offer Mr C received included interest 
at a rate of 17%. Mr C wasnt happy with this higher interest rate of interest, or with how long 
it had taken Halifax to process his loan application, so he made a complaint.
Halifax looked into Mr Cs complaint. They agreed that it had taken longer than they would 
have liked for Mr Cs application to be processed and so they offered Mr C a payment of £33 
to reimburse him for the phone calls Mr C had made about the application, and a payment of 
£50 by way of apology for the standard of service that Mr C had received.
However, Halifax also explained that the rate of interest that they offer to a customer is 
based on the circumstances of that customers application. Halifax were satisfied that they 
had correctly assessed Mr Cs application against their own lending criteria and had offered 
Mr C a rate of interest that was appropriate. So, they didnt uphold this aspect of Mr Cs 
complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this response. He felt that his financial record was such that there 
was no reason for him not to be offered the advertised rate of 3.5%, and he didnt feel that 
the amount of compensation that Halifax had offered for the standard of service went far 
enough. So, Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this case. However, they noted that the rate of interest 
that a bank chooses to offer its customers is ultimately a commercial decision that banks are 
entitled to make. Our investigator also felt that that the offer of compensation Halifax had 
made was a fair one, and so they didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint either.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr C feels strongly that he should have been eligible for a lower rate of interest 
than the one he was offered by Halifax. But, having considered this complaint, I find that I 
have reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for essentially the same reasons.
With regard the level of interest that Halifax offered Mr C, the remit of this service is 
somewhat limited here. It's for a business to decide whether it will lend to a customer and, if 
so, how much and on what terms. What we'd expect is that a lender carries out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to assess the circumstances of that customer and to make an offer 
of lending, if it chooses to make one, that is appropriate to those circumstances.
Its notable that Halifaxs website confirms that this loan can be offered with rates of interest 
ranging from a minimum rate of 3.5% to a maximum rate of 29.9%. The interest rate that Mr 
C was offered of 17% is toward the middle of this range of possible interest rates that could 
be offered.
Mr C has argued that there is nothing in his personal or financial circumstances that should 
warrant his not being offered the most preferential interest available. However, this is Mr Cs 
assessment of himself. It is entirely at the discretion of a business as to how they conduct 
their lending assessments and what criteria they choose to utilise. 
Mr C has expressed his dissatisfaction that a copy of his loan application has not been made 
available so that Halifaxs assessment of him can itself be assessed. However, Halifax have 
explained that this is because loan applications which do not move forward are only held on 
file for a period of thirty days. While it may have been useful to have had a copy of the 
application in this instance, this may have only served to have narrowed the focus of the key 
point of this complaint, which is that while Mr C may disagree with Halifaxs assessment of 
his loan application, Halifax are entitled to make the assessment which they have made.
Mr C has also stated that he believes that Halifax arent offering the advertised rate of 3.5% 
interest to a sufficient percentage of applicants to justify advertising the loan at that rate. 
However, this isnt an issue that falls within the remit of this service, so I have been unable to 
consider this aspect of Mr Cs complaint further. 
It follows that I wont be upholding Mr Cs complaint about the rate of interest Halifax chose 
to offer him  ultimately, as explained, because this was a choice Halifax are entitled to 
make. 
I have also considered the level of compensation that Halifax offered Mr C for the standard 
of service he received when chasing the outcome of his loan application. I know that Mr C 
doesnt feel that the £33 reimbursement of call costs and £50 apology payment went far 
enough, but I feel that they are fair in this instance. 
As our investigator explained, it isnt the role of this service to punish or fine businesses for 
their actions or inactions, but rather to ensure that any compensation amount offered is 
reasonable in light of the inconvenience caused. And I think that thats the case here. 
Compensation is always a very subjective issue, and I can understand that this may not be 
the outcome that Mr C had hoped for. But I feel that the compensation that Halifax have 
offered in this instance is appropriate and I note that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect in similar circumstances. So, I wont be asking Halifax to take any 
further action or increase their offer of compensation to Mr C beyond that to which they have 
already agreed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman