DRN-4441160
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) dealt with a
claim he made to recover money he paid for a package holiday.
Background to this decision
I recently issued my provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint 
and my intended conclusions on how I thought the dispute between Mr E and JLFS should 
be resolved. Ive reproduced that provisional decision here and it is incorporated as part of 
my overall findings. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to 
make in response, and I will address their responses later in this decision.
What happened
Mr G booked package travel arrangements through travel service provider T. He paid just 
under £2,600 using his JLFS credit card. Mr Gs hotel accommodation was provided by A, 
a four-star hotel at which hed previously stayed.
However, when Mr G arrived at the hotel he was disappointed to find that some of the 
advertised facilities werent available, such as the hotel spa, and the indoor pool, and that 
organised entertainment and activities were extremely limited. Mr G was also unhappy that 
the air conditioning wasnt working in many of the hotels communal areas. He says when he 
queried this with A, it told him this had been switched off to save on operational costs.
Mr G says this marred his enjoyment of the holiday. As nothing was done to address the 
situation during his stay, he raised his concerns with T on his return to the UK, seeking 
compensation. T acknowledged Mr Rs disappointment with the information it provided about 
the hotel facilities. It said A could make changes necessary for maintenance, health and 
safety or staffing concerns. And it apologised for any inconvenience caused.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Ts reply. He turned to JLFS to see if he could obtain 
reimbursement through the bank. Mr G was dissatisfied that JLFS didnt deal with his claim 
promptly, and when the bank did respond it didnt uphold his claim. JLFS said it wasnt able 
to pursue recovery using the card schemes chargeback process, because that didnt cover 
disputes about quality of service.
JLFS also didnt think it held any liability to meet Mr Gs claim under the connected lender 
liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). It said:
Under section 75 it considered whether there was a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. The rating system operated by T couldnt be relied on to demonstrate this
T gave no guarantee on the availability of facilities that were outside its control, such 
as the air conditioning units
Mr Gs points regarding the air conditioning were subjective and didnt amount to a 
breach of contract. There was also nothing to suggest the spa facilities were the 
primary purpose for Mr G choosing A, so it couldnt accept this was a breach or 
misrepresentation
Mr G had made use of As services and this wouldnt allow him to claim 
compensation
Mr G was unhappy with JLFSs response and with the delays hed experienced. He 
complained to it  and subsequently to us.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said Mr G hadnt 
provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate thered been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by T for which JLFS might be liable. The investigator acknowledged that 
Mr G had been frustrated by the time JLFS took to deal with his claim, but said there was no 
set time limit for doing so.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He asked for matters to be reviewed, 
making a number of detailed points in support of his position, which Ill summarise here:
extracts from As brochure confirming its four-star status and the fact it is fully air 
conditioned (it does not say partial or any other combination);
hed stayed once before at A, a few years earlier. It was fully air conditioned to all 
areas  public and private  and A was operating fully at the time of his 2022 stay. 
This had reassured him that he could stay in comfort in A out of the blazing heat of 
the day and warm, humid, evenings;
he referenced lengthy professional experience in the field of property, development 
and facilities management, setting out his opinion of the ventilation and air-
conditioning requirements expected of A, which he considered fundamental for a 
hotel with paying guests. Mr G noted A had air-conditioning infrastructure and grilles 
in evidence everywhere;
T advertised the hotel as four-star, 4T, air conditioned with full spa facilities and 
indoor swimming pool. A was previously known to him. The contract was formed and 
he paid in full. It was misrepresentation and a breach of contract for T to then declare 
 post contract  that the spa facilities would not be available
there was no mention that all air conditioning and mechanical services to all public 
areas other than the main restaurant would be turned off and/or as a deliberate act 
by the hotel's owners. Ts representative at the hotel was aware of this but didnt 
disclose it either prior to or after his entry into the contract. That was a clear case of 
misrepresentation and breach of contract for which JLFS was liable;
it would be normal for a tour company to provide guests with similar spa facilities in a 
nearby hotel. This didnt happen;
the lack of spa facilities on its own was not sufficient reason to cancel the holiday  
getting hold of anyone at T would in such an event have been a nightmare in order to 
guarantee a full refund before departure;
his written statements were wrongly being disregarded as evidence, and it was unfair 
to expect him to provide supporting documentation or recordings to confirm hed 
been told the air-conditioning had been switched off. There were numerous online 
reviews of A from the material time referencing the unbearable conditions in the 
public areas of the hotel due to the air conditioning being switched off
neither T nor JLFS had provided evidence claiming there was no air-conditioning in 
the hotel or stating that it was operational;the impact of switching off the air-conditioning in A was fundamental to the enjoyment 
of the holiday. The investigators assessment didnt recognise the consequences of 
such a situation in a hot country during high season. Nor did it take a properly 
proportionate view in terms of the compensation that would apply. Instead, it had 
unfairly focused on the closure of the spa facilities and effectively disregarded the 
key issue of the lack of air conditioning;
the assessment failed to recognise the problems and delays hed experienced in 
pursuing his claim. He had provided evidence published by JLFS that proved there 
were defined response times. The investigator had wrongly stated there were none 
and that JLFS could effectively take as long as it liked with a section 75 claim. Hed 
also supplied a significant amount of evidence of the difficulties in contacting and 
obtaining responses from JLFS. He attributed the delay and lack of interest in his 
claim as being connected with a change of ownership during the period in which he 
made his claim
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling here. I dont doubt his holiday experience was highly 
disappointing, particularly given his previous stay at A had set a certain level of expectation. 
His stay this time around was clearly much less enjoyable.
Mr G has presented a good deal of documentation and testimony in support of that, and Ive 
no reason to doubt what he says in this regard. His evidence is substantiated by 
contemporaneous online reviews. If this were a case where the determining factor was 
whether Mr G had a pleasurable holiday, then the answer would undoubtedly be no.
However, while there is case law to indicate its possible to claim damages for loss of 
enjoyment in a contract of this nature, the key issue I need to consider is whether JLFS has 
any liability to Mr G. It doesnt adopt such liability simply by acting as a card issuer. Instead, 
there are two ways in which JLFS might incur a liability to Mr G. Either directly, for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation under the provisions of section 75. Or indirectly because its 
actions  for example, if it failed to raise a valid chargeback claim  caused Mr G loss that it 
would be reasonable to expect the bank to reimburse.
Section 75
One effect of section 75 is that, where an individual (the debtor) buys goods from a supplier 
using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender (creditor) and the 
supplier, that individual can bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against 
the lender in the same way he could against the supplier.
It appears to be accepted that Mr G made a package travel arrangement, the supplier was T 
and Mr G paid for the travel arrangement using credit provided to him by JLFS. The 
necessary arrangements were in place and the transaction was within the specified financial 
limits such that section 75 applies to it.
But that isnt the end of the matter. Section 75 also requires that Mr G has a claim against T 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr G contracted with T for a package travel arrangement. The Package Travel and Linked 
Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 imply a term into every package travel contract that  among other things  the organiser (in this case, T) is liable to the traveller for the 
performance of the travel services included in the package travel contract, irrespective of 
whether those services are to be performed by the organiser or by other travel service 
providers. In practical terms, that means that if there is a failure relating to performance of 
the contract, T is responsible for that failure just as much as A. A breach of contract claim 
cannot simply be turned aside on the basis that T has no control over As actions.
As Mr G booked his package holiday with a UK travel company, the provisions of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) apply to the accommodation services. The CRA 
incorporates terms into contracts to supply services including that they must be performed 
with reasonable care and skill, and in relation to things that are said by or on behalf of the 
trader (in this case, T).
Misrepresentation
It's by no means certain that Mr Gs arguments  compelling as they are about the impact on 
him of the lack of operative air-conditioning or other hotel facilities  amount to a 
misrepresentation by T. For example, the information contained in As brochure might well 
indicate it had air-conditioning throughout the hotel. Mr Gs own past experience might also 
have caused him to have that expectation, as might Ts rating system. But neither of these 
would constitute a misrepresentation by T that induced him to contract with it.
Mr G hasnt provided anything that demonstrates that T made any representation that there 
would be air-conditioning throughout the hotel, or that it misled him that spa facilities and a 
full entertainment package would be available. For example, had Mr G asked T about these 
matters and received false information, or if T knew that Mr G believed the air-conditioning 
was operating in all areas but said nothing to correct that belief, then this might give rise to a 
claim in misrepresentation. However, Mr G hasnt suggested this is what happened.
It's sometimes possible to view historic website information, which might have been of 
assistance in this case in determining what T said about As facilities. Unfortunately Ive 
been unable to access any useful historic version. The current version on Ts website is of 
little assistance to Mr G, as it doesnt mention spa facilities and refers only to air-conditioning 
in the context of the bedrooms. Mr G has said the air-conditioning was operating in his room.
If Mr G has a copy of the website information from the time of his booking, then the position 
might be different. But in the absence of this, its not unreasonable for JLFS to reject a 
misrepresentation claim.
Breach of contract
As Ive said, there are certain matters that become contractual terms due to relevant 
legislation, and for which performance becomes Ts responsibility. Ive thought about 
whether a functioning air-conditioning system might in any event amount to a contractual 
obligation, or that a decision not to operate it might indicate a lack of reasonable care and 
skill in providing the hotel service.
I take on board what Mr G says about his experience in the field. But I think it unlikely a court 
would conclude that reasonable care and skill in this context has the meaning that A was 
obliged to operate its air-conditioning in all areas of the hotel. It might well be sufficient to 
operate it in the bedrooms and some communal areas, as I understand is what A did.
That said, Ts obligation to perform its services with due care and skill extends beyond the 
performance of As obligations. Mr G makes the point that T was  or should have been  aware that A had taken the decision not to operate the air-conditioning across the hotel. Hes 
said Ts representative was regularly onsite for some two months prior to his stay.
Whether A had taken such a decision is a matter of objective fact. Mr Gs evidence is that he 
was told this by As staff. I consider him to be a reliable witness to events. JLFS hasnt 
provided any equivalent evidence to contradict Mr Gs account, and Im satisfied its 
appropriate to accept his testimony in this respect.
If T had constructive knowledge of the possibility that as a result guests might find their stays 
less comfortable during the hotter summer months, then omitting to mention this material 
information in the course of selling the package to Mr G (or other customers) might amount 
to an unfair commercial practice under The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008 (CPUT). It did, after all, consider it important to let guests know about the 
limited spa facilities (albeit that Mr G describes this wasnt until after he made his booking). If 
so, then a failure to comply with such legislation could well be viewed as T not meeting its 
obligation to perform its services with due care and skill.
As such, I think there is a basis for Mr G to have a breach of contract claim against T (and, 
by extension, against JLFS). Its possible that claim isnt particularly strong, and that might 
yet fall to be decided by a court of law. But my role here is to take a view on the way that 
JLFS dealt with Mr Gs claim. Im not currently persuaded that the banks response to his 
claim shows that it had sufficient regard for its potential liability towards him.
Chargeback
JLFS told Mr G it didnt pursue recovery from T by means of chargeback, on the basis that 
the dispute was about the quality of the services he received. It hasnt provided any 
supporting evidence  such as an extract from the relevant card scheme rules  to show that 
this was a legitimate reason to take no action.
Im conscious the card scheme rules provide for chargeback in circumstances where goods 
or services are not as described or were in some way defective. Thats not quite the same as 
having a claim in misrepresentation or breach of contract, though in some respect it sets the 
bar a little lower for a successful claim.
As the assertion that the hotel services were defective was essentially the basis of Mr Gs 
submission, Id expect JLFS to have raised a claim, unless the card scheme rules prohibited 
it from doing so. All the other necessary information was available in Mr Gs submission. 
That doesnt mean the chargeback would have been successful, of course. It could have 
failed on other grounds, or been defended successfully by T. And its still open to Mr G to 
seek recovery under different grounds, as mentioned above. So I cant properly say the 
failure to progress a chargeback claim has caused Mr G loss. But I am currently minded to 
conclude that JLFS could have done more to assist in this respect, and that this should be 
taken into account when considering how best to put things right.
JLFSs handling of the section 75 claim
Im addressing this aspect as a separate point, as Im conscious that Mr Gs reply to our 
investigators assessment attached no little importance to it. In light of whats been said, I 
should make clear that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) doesnt set any regulatory 
timescale for dealing with a section 75 claim. While it does set a timescale for dealing with a 
complaint, there is a distinction to be drawn between a complaint and a legal claim, which is 
what section 75 enables Mr G to make against JLFS.Of course, that doesnt mean JLFS could take as long as it liked to respond to the claim. Id 
expect it to receive and respond to a claim in a timely way, without unnecessary delay. From 
the records Ive seen, JLFS received Mr Gs claim at the end of July, issuing its response to 
the claim in early November  an overall timescale of 14 weeks. Although I appreciate Mr G 
wanted a quicker response, I dont consider that timescale indicative of undue delay on the 
part of JLFS in replying to a legal claim.
Putting things right
I think there are elements of the arrangements between T and Mr G, funded by his credit 
card payment, that might be successfully claimed by him as a breach of contract or under 
chargeback. These dont appear to me to have been contemplated by JLFS in its response 
to Mr Gs claim. Im currently minded to think they should have been, and that it would be 
appropriate for JLFS to compensate Mr G as a result.
It must be remembered that a contract for a holiday generally incorporates an element 
relating to enjoyment and relaxation. I dont doubt that the non-operation of the air- 
conditioning reduced Mr Gs enjoyment of the hotel and its facilities. So I can see a situation 
where Mr G could be successful in claiming for this.
Such compensation isnt likely to amount to the cost of the holiday, or even the 
accommodation element of the package. But it should fairly reflect the loss of enjoyment 
Mr G experienced, as well as the inconvenience he had due to the way JLFS dealt with his 
claim. Noting the £2,600 cost of his arrangements included flight costs as well as the other 
hotel amenities that he still received, Im minded to assess suitable compensation as being 
£500, to recognise his loss of enjoyment as well as JLFSs handling of his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
JLFS accepted my intended conclusions and had no further comments to make.
Mr G also responded, providing commentary on the lengths he felt hed had to go to in order 
for his claim to be considered, and the inconvenience this had caused him. He felt that my 
decision should give greater recognition to the way in which the section 75 claim was 
subsumed into the banks complaint process, and the timescale for the latter
Mr G referenced his partners health condition and the impact on her from a health and 
safety perspective. He expressed the view that A had made a reckless decision to switch off 
the air-conditioning in order to save money, putting guests and staff at risk. Mr G didnt think 
the proposed compensation went far enough, taking into account the proportion of the total 
payment that went towards accommodation and meals.
He asked that I reconsider his additional points and further evidence in support of the claim 
for compensation, along with his claim for interest to be added to the final determination of 
compensation given the extensive time that has elapsed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Gs further submissions, but having done so, I remain satisfied with the findings 
Ive reached and the resolution Ive proposed. I therefore adopt them in full as my findings in 
this final decision, but make the following observations in light of Mr Gs comments.Much of what Mr G has said simply serves to underline the points hes previously made. I 
dont consider hes presented a clear and persuasive argument or evidence in support of his 
claims of deliberate concealment or dishonest misrepresentation, though I accept he holds 
those opinions. Ive previously explained that As brochure doesnt amount to a 
representation by T and why, in the absence of any evidence to show how T described the 
hotel facilities, I cant accept a claim of misrepresentation in respect of those facilities.
The arguments Mr G makes in relation to what he terms the reckless decision of A to switch 
off the air-conditioning are not in my view sufficient to demonstrate a breach of contract, for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. Much of what Mr G describes is not 
provided for within the contract. I think its reasonable to infer from what Mr G has said that 
he considers A to be in breach of a duty of care.
This, and the type of damages he is claiming might enable a negligence claim in tort against 
A (or T). Its for him to seek legal advice in this respect. But section 75 provides for 
connected lender liability only in cases of breach of contract or misrepresentation. It doesnt 
apply to actions brought in tort. So he cant successfully make such a claim against JLFS.
Im aware Mr G remains of the opinion that the handling of the section 75 claim should be 
subject to the same timescale as that set out by the FCA for complaint-handling. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, I dont hold this view. Nor do I think it would be right to 
say that the section 75 claim is subsumed into the banks complaint-handling process. Mr G 
made his complaint to JLFS in light of his dissatisfaction with the time being taken to 
respond to his claim. It is appropriate to draw a distinction between the two, not least 
because dissatisfaction with the way in which a firm has handled a complaint (including the 
time taken to do so) will generally fall outside the scope of our jurisdiction1.
Ive thought about Mr Gs request that I consider awarding interest on the compensation Ive 
proposed. Im not obliged to award interest on my awards, though it is within my power to do 
so. Here, while Ive considered Mr Gs request Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for 
me to backdate an interest award. For the reasons previously explained Im satisfied that the 
£500 Ive proposed is a fair sum for JLFS to pay in response to Mr Gs complaint. However, I 
will include a provision in the settlement intended to ensure payment is made promptly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
John Lewis Financial Services Limited must, within 28 days of receiving Mr Gs acceptance 
of it, pay Mr G £500 to settle his complaint.
If settlement is not made within 28 days, it must pay interest on that sum calculated at 8% 
simple annually from then until the point settlement is made. If John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited deducts tax from such interest, it should provide Mr G with a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
1 see, for example Mazarona Properties Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 1135 
(Admin)