DRN-2177896
The complaint
This is a complaint that Coventry Building Society mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr T and Ms T.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1989, 
and another PPI policy which started in 1992 when the Coventry changed its insurance 
provider. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr T and Ms T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 30 years ago and many of the original documents from 
the time are not now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything 
that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on 
everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
The documents that have survived suggest that Mr T and Ms T were told they had a choice 
about taking PPI. But theyve said that Coventry told them theyd stand a better chance of 
having their mortgage application accepted if they took PPI, and so Ive looked to see what 
evidence there is to support this. 
I must assess things on the balance of probabilities  that is what is more likely than not to 
have happened. But the person bringing the complaint needs to present reasonable 
evidence on which I can base that decision. It would be unfair to make Coventry prove it 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
And, given that this was so many years ago, I dont know how much I can fairly rely on Mr T 
and Ms Ts recollections of what was said. 
I realise it would be very difficult for Mr T and Ms T to now find extra evidence to prove what 
they are saying. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold in the 
way they believe. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I dont think Coventry recommended the PPI to Mr T and Ms T, in the sense of saying it fitted 
their particular circumstances. But, even if it had made a recommendation, I think it would 
have been a suitable recommendation, based on what Ive seen of Mr T and Ms Ts situation 
at the time: 
A mortgage is a big commitment and finding yourself unable to cover the payments 
can lead to significant difficulties. 
Its likely Mr T (the person covered) was eligible for the policy (and so would be 
entitled to put in a claim if needed). 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr T received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it doesnt seem they had significant other 
means to fall back on, if Mr T lost his job, to cover their ongoing household costs  
they would be relying on just one salary instead of two. So the PPI would have put 
Mr T and Ms T in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income, if Mr T 
suffered long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr T would 
have been affected by any of these. 
Its hard to know how well Coventry explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr T and Ms T took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater than 
Mr Ts sick pay, and the cost wasnt significantly high. 
Its possible Coventry didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr T would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it monthly, 
so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. But Coventry will pay back some of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr T and Ms T because: 
Coventry got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T and Ms T about that. Because Coventry didnt tell 
Mr T and Ms T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Coventry has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T and Ms T.
But, if it hasnt done so already, Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr T 
and Ms T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman