DRN-2950971
The complaint
Mr P and Mr L are complaining about the advice they received from Lloyds Bank PLC which 
led them to take out term life assurance policies and place them into trusts.
What happened
In 1995, Mr P, Mr L, and their business partner at the time, Mr O, each took out a term 
assurance policy with the intention of protecting the business if any of them were to pass 
away. Each partners policy was placed into a trust, with the person assured being the settlor 
and trustee, and the other two partners being named as joint beneficiaries. This would allow 
the remaining partners to pay off the business loan and also to buy the deceaseds 
shareholding out from the estate.
Sadly, Mr O passed away in 2002. But instead of Mr P and Mr L receiving the proceeds of 
the policy, the sum assured was paid to Mr Os estate. Mr P and Mr L werent happy but 
didnt complain at the time out of respect to Mr Os family. In 2020, Mr P and Mr L found 
some documents which they thought showed the payment ought to have been made to 
themselves rather than Mr Os estate. They werent eligible to complain about Mr Os policy, 
but this led them to think their own policies had been set up incorrectly  so they complained 
to Lloyds about this. They also said they didnt think they should have needed to take out 
term assurance when Lloyds already had a charge over the business property as security for 
the loan. 
Lloyds replied to Mr P and Mr Ls complaint. They said they didnt have any evidence from 
the time of the advice and added that the policies had expired in 2005. But they said the 
bank does have the right to insist on cover being in place as a condition of lending, even 
when security has been taken over a property. They added they always recommend life 
assurance to ensure a business or individuals dont suffer as a result of a persons death. 
Lloyds also said that a letter had been issued in September 2001 to each business partner. 
This letter suggested appointing additional trustees on the policy and explained what would 
happen if no additional trustees were appointed. Lloyds explained that when a policyholder 
is the sole trustee, the responsibility of administering the trust would pass to the executors of 
the policyholders estate on the policyholders death. Lloyds said it would then be at the 
discretion of the executors to make payments to any beneficiaries named in the trust.
Mr P wasnt happy with Lloyds response. He said the trust should have been set up properly 
from the outset with all the business partners as trustees. He said he didnt receive the letter 
sent in 2001 and that it had been sent to the wrong address. But Lloyds said they had no 
record of Mr P notifying them of his change of address. And they said he would have had to 
let the policy provider know of his change of address.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said she thought it was likely the business 
partners needed to take out life assurance in order to secure the business loan. In relation to 
the setting up of the trusts, she said the intention of the business partners was clear, but 
there was no evidence of what happened at the time of the sale. She acknowledged that the 
trust deed didnt allow space for additional trustees to be listed but it did say that at least two 
trustees needed to be appointed. And she said she could only uphold a complaint if the 
evidence showed that Lloyds had made a mistake  which in this case it hadnt.
Mr P and Mr L werent happy with our investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint  so its come to me. In doing so, Mr P said Lloyds should have 
provided appropriate forms and advice at the outset so that additional trustees were added 
as needed. He said the policies amounted to nothing more than individual life policies which 
werent needed or wanted. So he reiterated his view that theyd been mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be disappointing for Mr P and Mr L, Im not upholding their 
complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator  Ill explain.
Need for life assurance
Mr P and Mr L are of the opinion that they didnt need life assurance. They said Lloyds 
shouldnt have needed them to have it because they already had a charge over the property 
 so if anything happened, theyd be able to sell the property to recoup the loan.
I can appreciate Mr P and Mr Ls position, but businesses are allowed to set their own terms 
and conditions for lending. I havent seen any evidence to say for sure whether the life 
assurance was a condition of lending. But even if it wasnt, its likely Id have said the 
recommendation of life assurance was suitable  the way the policies were intended to work 
was to protect each shareholders interest in the event of anothers death. 
Failure to add an additional trustee to each trust
The reason Mr Os policy didnt operate as intended was that no additional trustee had been 
added to his trust. So, when Mr O passed away, the executors of his estate were able to use 
their discretion in administering the trust. 
Its clear no additional trustees were added to either Mr P or Mr Ls trusts at the outset either 
 the letters sent to each of them in September 2001 advised them of this. I can understand 
why Mr P and Mr L say this is evidence that Lloyds failed to set the trusts up correctly. 
However I dont think theres enough evidence for me to agree with this conclusion. There 
are a number of possible explanations as to what happened. For example, further 
conversations may have been needed to establish who those additional trustees should be 
and then it may have been forgotten about. Or letters and forms may have been sent to the 
three business partners at the time, but not responded to.
In 2001 the policy provider sent letters to each business partner noting that additional 
trustees needed to be added to the policy  but it seems none of the three partners made 
the necessary amendments. So its quite possible that Lloyds gave the same advice in 1995, 
when the policies were set up, and the partners acted in the same way  i.e. not making the 
necessary amendments.
I appreciate Mr P says the circumstantial evidence is clear  the policies were intended to 
operate in a certain way, but didnt  so they must have been mis-sold. But on balance, I 
cant say this was Lloyds fault. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr P and Mr Ls complaint about Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman