DRN-3708749
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank plc permitted a withdrawal from his joint account without 
his consent. He also complains that Lloyds Bank plc has discriminated against him.
What happened
Mr P had a current account with Lloyds. The account was held jointly with his wife. He says 
that his wife made a report to Lloyds which resulted in a block being put on the account. 
He says he only found out about this when direct debit payments were not paid. He had to 
open a separate account to manage his affairs.
Mr P says that on 9 April 2021 Lloyds removed the block on the account and permitted his 
wife to withdraw £11,000 from the account. He was not asked to, and did not, consent to 
this withdrawal. He says that Lloyds should not have permitted the withdrawal. He says his 
position has been prejudiced as a result of Lloyds actions.
On 19 October 2021, Mr P and his wife both attended a branch of Lloyds and they jointly 
agreed to certain transfers of funds from the joint account. Mr P says that after they left the 
branch, Lloyds phoned his wife to enquire if she was happy about the transfers that had 
been agreed. Mr P says he feels discriminated against because no-one contacted him to 
enquire if he was happy about the transfers. He says Lloyds has adopted a one-sided 
approach and has treated him unfairly.
Mr P asked Lloyds to reimburse him with 50% of the amount (£5,500) his wife had 
withdrawn from the joint account on 9 April 2021. He also said the way hed been treated 
had affected his mental health. He complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It said it had made an error when it had lifted the block 
on the account on 9 April 2021. But, it said that Mr P had an opportunity on 19 October 
2021 to rectify the error and there were still funds in the account which would give him 
further opportunity to adjust his position as regards the distribution of the funds in the joint 
account.
Lloyds acknowledged that Mr P had been inconvenienced as a result of its actions and it 
credited £250 to his account by way of compensation for what had happened.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. She thought that the issue regarding the withdrawal 
of the £11,000 was a civil dispute and would be a matter for the courts to decide. She said 
the block should not have been removed and Mr P had experienced considerable distress 
and inconvenience. She thought there was no evidence to support what Mr P had said 
about being discriminated against and it was not Lloyds intention to discriminate against 
him. Our investigator said Lloyds should pay him an additional £150 (£400 in total) by way 
of compensation.
Mr P did not agree. He said the amount of proposed compensation was derisory. He 
also said his wife was unwell. He said he could not pursue recovery of the £5,500 
because of their current circumstances.
Because Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account mandate
Where there is a joint account, both parties need to issue joint instructions 
regarding the operation of the account. They can agree at the outset, or at any 
stage, that the bank can accept instructions from either one of them. This is often 
referred to as a joint account mandate. The mandate can be withdrawn at any time 
by either party  there is no requirement for the other party to consent to withdrawal 
of the mandate. Where the mandate is withdrawn the bank can only act on the joint 
instructions of both parties, until such times as a new joint account mandate is put 
in place.
Mr Ps wife did withdraw the joint account mandate on or about 7 April 2021. So, I 
dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it treated the joint mandate as having 
ended and informed both parties that it had done that.
Mr P says Lloyds didnt inform him. Ive looked at Lloyds internal records and I 
can see there is an entry there dated 13 April 2021 which states that a letter was 
issued to both parties. So, although there was a slight delay in issuing the letter, 
Im not persuaded that Lloyds failed to inform Mr P about what it had done. And, 
it is the case that he was able to make other arrangements to manage his affairs 
after he was informed.
The withdrawal on 9 April 2021
Lloyds has accepted it should not have lifted the block on the account on 9 April 
2021 to permit Mr Ps wife to make a withdrawal. I agree that it should not have 
done that. But the issue I have to decide is whether Mr P has suffered a loss as a 
consequence of what Lloyds did.
It is the case that both Mr P and his wife subsequently attended the branch on 19 
October 2021. Mr P wouldve had the opportunity on that date to seek to rectify the 
position regarding the balance in the joint account before funds were distributed to 
his sole account and his wifes sole account. Its not clear why he didnt take 
whatever action was required at that date to mitigate the loss he says hed incurred. 
Mr P does have a duty to seek to mitigate any loss.
Lloyds has also told our service, that even after the withdrawals made on 19 
October 2021, there are still enough funds in the joint account for Mr P to mitigate 
his loss. The balance in the joint account exceeds the amount that was withdrawn 
on 9 April 2021. The account remains subject to the requirement that both parties 
need to authorise any further withdrawals. So, Im not persuaded that, if Mr P has 
suffered a loss, he has done everything he might reasonably have been expected 
to do to mitigate that loss. Im also not persuaded, given that there is still a balance 
in the joint account, any loss he says he has sustained has yet been crystallised. 
Mr P could still take action to rectify the position.Having considered the withdrawal on 9 April 2021 Im not currently persuaded 
Lloyds needs to take any action to resolve this part of his complaint. Ill comment 
further below about the distress and inconvenience Mr P says he has been caused.
Mr P says Lloyds has discriminated against him
Mr P says that Lloyds has discriminated against him. He says this is 
evidenced by the following facts:
it acted on his wifes sole report and blocked the account without reference to 
him;
it allowed his wife to withdraw £11,000 without his consent  lifting the 
block on the account. This is something he says it would not have done 
for him;
it phoned his wife after the withdrawal on 19 October 2021. It didnt phone 
him; and
generally, Lloyds has not been even-handed.
Whilst I can understand why Mr P was annoyed by Lloyds actions, Im not currently 
persuaded it treated him differently because of a protected characteristic (such as 
his sex or his age) or that it has otherwise treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Ill 
explain why.
Ive already commented on the reasons why Lloyds was able to withdraw the joint 
account mandate on his wifes sole instruction. Ive also commented on the 
£11,000 withdrawal.
Ive thought about Lloyds actions when it phoned Mr Ps wife on 19 October 2021. 
But, having done so, Im satisfied Lloyds didnt do anything wrong when it made 
such enquiries as it deemed necessary to satisfy itself that the instructions it had 
received could be relied upon. It hadnt received any reports from Mr P that 
wouldve indicated it needed to take extra steps before it could rely on his 
instructions. So, although Mr P feels he hasnt been treated even-handedly, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds has treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
Distress and Inconvenience
Lloyds acknowledged that Mr P had experienced distress and inconvenience 
because of its actions. It has already paid him £250 by way of compensation. I dont 
think that is enough for what happened here. Our investigator thought it should pay 
him an additional £150 (£400 in total).
Mr P has been inconvenienced and hes told us about the stress this has caused 
him at what is already a very difficult time. I can understand why that would be the 
case. But, having considered everything, my provisional decision is that an 
additional £150 (£400 in total) is fair and reasonable compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.I intend to require it to pay Mr P an additional £150 (being £400 in total) by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what 
happened here.
Mr P hasnt responded to my provisional decision or made any further comments.
Lloyds did respond to my provisional decision. It said it agreed with the provisional decision 
and had nothing more to add. It said it had initially agreed, following our investigators 
comments, to increase the compensation by another £150 and noted that there was nothing 
in the provisional decision to say that anything further was warranted.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. I havent received any new or 
further information. So, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view as set out in 
my provisional decision. I remain of the view that Lloyds should now pay Mr P an additional 
£150 (being £400 in total) by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
I now require it to pay Mr P an additional £150 (being £400 in total) by way of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman