DRN-3168950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt treat them fairly when their 
finances were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a repayment mortgage with NatWest in February 2020. Mr J is the 
main earner and works in an industry badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. He lost his 
job shortly before the first national lockdown.
Mr and Mrs J successfully applied for a three-month payment deferral. In accordance with 
the regulators guidelines this didnt affect their credit files. After this they asked NatWest to 
switch their mortgage to interest only payments for 12-24 months. NatWest declined, saying 
they didnt meet criteria for an interest only mortgage.
Mr and Mrs J didnt want a further payment deferral as they were concerned about the 
increased payments when it ended. They said NatWest didnt engage with them about 
forbearance options. Mr and Mrs J said they used Mr Js redundancy payment to meet 
payments for a while. While Mr J is now working, his current contract will end soon.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. I said while NatWest hadnt fairly considered Mr and Mrs Js request to switch to 
interest only payments on a permanent or temporary basis, it was unlikely it would have 
offered this if it had. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. Mrs J said NatWest didnt explore whether interest only was a 
viable option or offer any forbearance options as an alternative to a payment deferral. Mrs J 
said they were not worried about their credit ratings and NatWest hadnt asked them for 
evidence of financial hardship. Mrs J hasnt told us whether they are in financial hardship.
Mrs J said how theyd paid their mortgage since mid-2020 was irrelevant to how NatWest 
responded when she asked for help. She said her complaint is that NatWest didnt do 
enough to explore options to try to help them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has pointed out that this complaint was raised and responded to in July 2020. It 
couldnt have taken into account guidance from the regulator (the Financial Conduct 
Authority or FCA) issued after this. Ive taken the guidance in effect at that time into account, 
as well as rules on mortgage regulation set out in Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) and NatWests duty to treat customers fairly.
When Mr and Mrs J spoke to NatWest in July 2020 they didnt want another payment 
deferral. FCA guidance said lenders could consider alternatives to this, including sustainable 
long-term solutions (such as an extension or different product) or more favourable forms of 
assistance (such as reducing or waiving interest).
The guidance said lenders had to distinguish between customers that can resume full 
payments and those that cant. And what amounts to fair treatment will depend on the 
customers circumstances. The guidance said lenders can choose to make the enquiries 
they consider necessary in order to offer an alternative to a payment deferral that is in the 
customers best interests, provided this does not cause undue delay.
The guidance reminds lenders that changes can be made to mortgage contracts for the 
purposes of forbearance without an affordability assessment.
NatWest also has to bear in mind rules on mortgage regulation about interest only 
mortgages. These rules say that lenders shouldnt switch a repayment mortgage to interest 
only for all of part of its term unless the customer has a credible repayment strategy. The 
rules dont prevent lenders from accepting payments of interest only as a temporary 
concession for customers in arrears or at risk of falling into arrears.
Did NatWest treat Mr and Mrs J fairly?
Mr and Mrs J wanted to switch to interest only payments for 12-24 months. NatWest says it 
cant switch Mr and Mrs Js account to interest only payments for a limited period. It says the 
switch would be permanent, and when Mr and Mrs J wanted to return to a repayment basis it 
would have to assess whether this was affordable. NatWest says a permanent switch to 
interest only payments isnt a forbearance option it offers to customers in financial hardship.
Mr and Mrs J didnt meet NatWests criteria for a permanent switch to interest only 
payments. I think its fair for NatWest to consider the possible implications when it dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Js request to switch to interest only payments. There are risks and downsides 
for customers with interest only mortgages: they pay more interest overall and could have to 
sell their home to repay the mortgage. Lending criteria  such as requiring a credible 
repayment vehicle, loan to value criteria and income criteria  are intended to reduce these 
risks. NatWest says Mr and Mrs J didnt meet criteria for an interest only mortgage. This 
didnt look to be a sustainable long-term solution to their problem.
Mrs J said having a repayment vehicle wasnt important as the mortgage expiry date was 
some years away. But at some point the capital does have to be repaid. If Mr and Mrs J 
couldnt afford to switch back to a repayment basis (and their payments would be higher as 
theyd be repaying the capital over a shorter period) they might have to sell their home to 
repay the mortgage. While Mrs J says theyd be prepared to do this, its unlikely NatWest 
would have assessed the sale of their main residence as a repayment strategy that met the 
requirements of rules on mortgage regulation.
However, I dont think it was reasonable for NatWest to rule out a temporary switch to 
interest only payments  it ought to have considered whether this was the right thing for Mr 
and Mrs J in their individual circumstances. But if it had considered this, I think it would most 
likely have decided a switch to interest only wasnt the right option for them at that time.
When Mr and Mrs J brought the complaint to us, they said they expected the reduction in 
their income to be short term. They expected Mr J to be promoted, or to return to his 
previous role if the industry he worked in recovered. I think it was reasonable for NatWest to 
consider forbearance options.
Mrs J says NatWest refused to discuss options with them because they werent in arrears. 
Based on NatWests notes of their calls I dont think this is a fair summary of what happened. NatWest said it didnt see evidence that Mr and Mrs J were in financial hardship  they 
werent in arrears and they didnt provide evidence of financial hardship. Mrs J says NatWest 
didnt ask for evidence of financial hardship. 
NatWest suggested a further payment deferral, but Mr and Mrs J didnt want this as it would 
mean higher payments afterwards. NatWest considered extending the term to reduce 
monthly payments, but this wasnt possible due to Mr and Mrs Js ages. NatWest says Mr 
and Mrs J rejected forbearance options. Its notes of the calls with Mrs J say that she wanted 
to avoid the credit implications of part payments or deferred payments  that interest and 
arrears would have to be repaid. Its notes say that Mrs J didnt want to go into arrears 
therefore do not refer back to forbearance.
It seems Mr and Mrs J didnt want another payment deferral or a part payment arrangement 
as they were worried about the increased payments when it ended. But if theyd switched to 
interest only payments for a period theyd have to catch up with the capital repayments at 
some point too. At the end of any interest only period Mr and Mrs J would have a shorter 
period over which to repay the capital balance, meaning monthly payments would be higher.
So, while NatWest didnt consider a temporary switch to interest only payments, I dont think 
it would have offered this if it had done so. Mr and Mrs J werent in a worse position than 
they ought to have been. In the circumstances, I dont intend to require NatWest to pay 
compensation or to review the decision it made in mid-2020.
Mrs J says their complaint is that NatWest didnt do all it could to assist them, and explore 
more options. She said had it done so and still been unable to find a way then theyd have 
been assured it had tried. I understand what Mrs J is saying here. As I said, I think NatWest 
should have considered a temporary switch to interest only payments. But, for the reasons 
Ive given, I dont think it would have offered this. And NatWests notes say that Mr and Mrs J 
didnt want options (such as a payment deferral or part payments) which would result in 
arrears and higher payments later on  which would also have been the case with a 
temporary switch to interest only payments. 
So far Mr and Mrs J have maintained mortgage payments and their mortgage isnt in arrears. 
If Mr and Mrs J are in financial difficulties, or find themselves in financial difficulties in future, 
they should contact NatWest to discuss what support it can offer. Id expect NatWest to treat 
them fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman