DRN-2220256
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc cancelled his motor insurance policy. He wants it 
to compensate him for cancelling his policy and to refund his premiums. 
What happened
Mr B made three late payments for his monthly premium instalments. He then called AXA to 
change his address. AXA said that there would be an increase in premium for the new 
address and Mr B didnt pass its affordability checks. So it told him it would cancel his policy 
with 10 days notice for him to find cheaper cover elsewhere. It waived its cancellation fee 
and its premium for the last month. Mr B was unhappy with this as he needed his car for his 
work. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA hadnt 
treated Mr B fairly. This was because although hed made late payments, he hadnt missed 
any. She couldnt see evidence that Mr B would be unable to afford the premiums at his new 
address. So she thought AXA shouldnt have cancelled Mr Bs policy. She thought it should 
remove any cancellation markers, refund Mr B any increase in his premium due to the 
cancellation for the rest of the policy year and pay him £150 compensation for his trouble 
and upset. 
Mr B agreed with this and said he hadnt needed to declare the cancellation to his new 
insurer. AXA replied that it had acted responsibly as it didnt want to cause Mr B financial 
difficulties by causing him to fall into debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B was late in making three monthly payments for his policy. He was 
charged a late fee each time. I think this was in keeping with the policy terms and conditions, 
and the payments were successfully taken on the second attempt. Mr B called AXA to make 
his change of address after making the third late payment. And this was when AXA decided 
that, as a responsible business, it would cancel Mr Bs policy due to its affordability for him. 
I can understand that AXA wanted to act responsibly and, as the premiums at the new 
address would be higher, it thought this would cause Mr B difficulties. But I dont think three 
late payments is a sufficient reason for it to decide that Mr B would be unable to afford the 
policy. Mr B hadnt missed payments, hed just made them late. 
AXA warned Mr B after his second late payment that he risked cancellation if this continued. 
And AXA warned Mr B that if he was late again after the third late payment it would cancel 
his policy. But AXA cancelled the policy without giving Mr B this last chance. 
AXAs own notes say that Mr B could have changed the payment date if that was the cause 
of the problem. But I cant see that this option was offered to Mr B. 
AXA said its system carried out an affordability check that led to its decision. Mr B asked 
how much the policy premiums would increase by, but the agent couldnt tell him. Mr B 
explained that the cancellation would put him out of work as hed have to pay for another 
deposit. I think AXAs agent was concerned about this and sought advice. But the policy was 
still cancelled. 
So I havent seen any evidence that Mr B would be unable to afford his premiums at his new 
address. I think AXA warned Mr B that it would cancel the policy if he was late with any 
further payments after the third late payment. I think AXA recognised that Mr Bs payment 
date might be unsuitable. But it didnt give him the option of changing this. So I think AXA 
cancelled Mr Bs policy prematurely. 
Mr B wanted AXA to refund his premiums. But I dont think this would be fair as it provided 
him with cover for a period and it calculated his payment for this pro-rata. It also didnt 
charge a cancellation fee. Mr B said he didnt need to declare the cancellation to his new 
insurer. So as the cancellation hasnt affected his new premium, I think AXA doesnt need to 
compensate Mr B for this. 
So I cant see that Mr B is directly out of pocket because of the cancellation. But I think AXA 
needs to restore Mr Bs position and compensate him for his trouble and upset. 
Mr B had to find alternative cover at short notice, and he was worried about his employment. 
The investigator recommended that AXA should pay Mr B £150 compensation for this. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr B, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Remove any records of the cancellation from internal and external databases where its 
been recorded.
2. Pay Mr B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
cancellation of his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman