DRN-3097880
The complaint
Mr S has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mr S was in an accident. He claimed on his policy and AXA arranged to repair his car. Mr S 
had a number of concerns with AXAs service including, amongst others, giving him a 
courtesy car, paying his excess, the quality of repairs, its service and AXAs refusal to cover 
some repairs under this claim.
AXA acknowledged that it hadn't got everything right and paid Mr S compensation for some 
specific points. Mr S didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its likely Ill partly uphold it.
As well as the points I intend to address below, Mr S has raised other issues with AXA which 
we are looking at under a separate reference number. So I don't intend to address any of 
those points here and instead will focus on the key outstanding issues following our 
investigator's assessment of Mr S complaint.
Repairs
Mr S was unhappy with the quality of the repairs carried out by AXAs approved repairers 
(the garage). AXA did return the car to the garage for it to put things right. But Mr S still 
wasnt happy with the repairs. He received an initial estimate to put right some issues with 
his cars rear bumper for a sum of over £700. AXA agreed that repairs to the rear bumper 
would need to be made good but it didn't think Mr S estimate was fair. So it paid him £150 
which it said would cover the additional remedial work required.
But, apart from the bumper, Mr S felt there were other areas of the car, notably the paint 
match and finish down its driver side which he said needed extra work. He took his car to 
four different repairers to give him estimates. All of those said Mr S car required rectification 
work to both the rear bumper and to the drivers side. Each of those estimates for repair was 
in excess of £6,000.
Ive seen that, when providing their estimates, all of the repairers have commented that the 
previous repairs were below standard. And AXA itself agreed that the repair to the rear 
bumper wasn't up to standard. So it appears that at least some of the garages repairs 
weren't as good as they should have been. But, as far as I can tell, apart from the initial 
estimate for the bumper, AXA hasn't ever commented on the estimates provided by Mr S 
repairers concerning additional work to other parts of the car. So I don't know if those 
estimates are an accurate reflection of work that is required because of the accident and the 
poor standard of repairs, or if those relate to something else.
Further, the repairers whove provided Mr S with estimates each have a vested interest in 
reporting that additional work might be required, as they potentially stand to gain some 
lucrative work from doing so. So I don't think it would be fair to simply accept those 
estimates as evidence that the additional work required is because of the initial incident and 
repair.
In order to address this I think the fair thing to do would be for AXA to appoint - and pay for - 
an independent engineer to assess Mr S car. It should give Mr S the option of choosing one 
from a list of at least three independent engineers. And both AXA and Mr S should agree to 
abide by the chosen engineers findings. The engineer should then assess Mr S car to 
determine what, if any, additional repair work is required. The independent engineer should 
then estimate reasonable costs for any remedial repairs, to include the reasonable costs of a 
hire/courtesy car while that work is ongoing. AXA should then pay Mr S the independent 
engineers estimated costs of repair on a cash-in-lieu basis to allow Mr S to arrange those 
repairs himself. AXA may deduct the £150 it has previously paid Mr S for repairs from the 
total sum the independent engineer estimates.
Further, the poor quality of repairs has clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience 
for Mr S. I think that will have been made worse because of the length of time this has been 
ongoing and the fact he may need to sort out additional repairs. So, I've thought about this 
when awarding compensation below.
Delay in providing a courtesy car
Mr S policy says that AXA will provide him with a courtesy car while his car is being 
repaired. I note that Mr S contacted AXA to say that the garage hadn't provided him with a 
courtesy car straightaway. And it seems that there was some dispute about whether or not 
Mr S needed a courtesy car at that stage. But I've seen that AXA contacted the garage soon 
after to confirm that Mr S did need a courtesy car. So it appears he should have had one 
sooner. It seems he was provided with a courtesy car fairly quickly after that. But Mr S was 
without a courtesy car for longer than he should have been, and this was clearly 
inconvenient for him, so I've thought about this when awarding compensation below.
Excess
Mr S was unhappy that AXA didn't return his excess payment to him even though he says he 
wasn't at fault for the accident. But Mr S policy says he must pay his excess for all claims, 
regardless of whether he was at fault or not. And while it's likely that he can reclaim his 
excess from the other driver if the claim is settled in his favour, as far as I'm aware, to date 
the claim has yet to be decided. So I think it was reasonable for AXA to charge Mr S his 
excess.
Tyres
Mr S initially reported that two of his tyres where damaged in the accident. But when the 
garage assessed the car it noted that, in fact, all four of Mr S tyres had suffered similar 
damage. It said all four tyres appeared to have been pierced by a small sharp object. So 
AXA believed that the tyres hadnt been damaged in the accident but might have been 
damaged maliciously. As such AXA concluded that the tyres weren't damaged in the 
accident and so weren't covered in the claim.AXA told Mr S that he could either pay for the tyre repairs himself or make a second claim 
for the tyre damage but that would require him to pay another excess. Mr S chose to deal 
with the tyre repairs himself but felt that AXA should pay for this.
The accident happened when the other cars passenger side came into contact with the 
drivers side of Mr S car. So I think its extremely unlikely that accident could have caused 
damage to the passenger side tyres of Mr S car. The garage noted that all four tyres were 
pierced in a similar manner, likely by a similar object. And I can't see how that could have 
happened in the accident Mr S suffered. It follows that I think it was reasonable both for AXA 
to conclude that Mr S tyres weren't damaged in the accident and that it wouldnt deal with 
their repairs under this claim.
Mr S was unhappy with the manner in which AXA dealt with the tyre issue and complained 
as he thought it took AXA too long to tell him what was happening. AXA acknowledged that 
there had been a lack of communication about this and paid Mr S £100 compensation. Mr S 
doesn't think that sum is enough. But while it certainly wasn't ideal that AXA didn't set out its 
position to Mr S at an early stage, I can see that it was reviewing the matter internally before 
it told Mr S what its decision was. It also appears that one of AXAs staff left a voicemail for 
Mr S to tell him about its decision. It seems Mr S didn't receive that voicemail and it's not 
clear if AXA rang the right number. However, as I've said above, I'm satisfied its decision 
was the correct one. So, while I can understand that Mr S found the situation frustrating, and 
AXA could have set out its position sooner I think its compensation of £100 was reasonable 
to address that in the circumstances.
Compensation
As I've said above, it seems to me that AXAs approved repairer didn't repair Mr S car to the 
standard it should have done. And, while AXAs paid a sum it says will allow Mr S to repair 
his bumper, Mr S remains convinced that there are other areas of the car that also require 
rectification work. But I can't see that AXA has addressed those points head on and resolved 
them with him. And I can understand just how frustrating Mr S will have found that as, over 
18 months later, the position still isn't sorted out. Further, as I've said above, I'm aware that 
Mr S was left without a courtesy car for longer than should have happened. So, to address 
Mr S distress and inconvenience resulting from those issues, I think AXA should pay him 
£500 compensation.
Developments 
Mr S told us he was suffering from depression, distress and anxiety and the inconvenience 
caused by this complaint has affected him mentally. He said he didn't want an independent 
engineers assessment which would only cause him more upset. He added that four 
professional garages had given estimates for the additional repairs required. He said 
I should review those and make an award based on those estimates. AXA didn't provide any 
further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I'm not going to depart from my provisional decision.
I understand that this complaint is adding to Mr S worries at an already difficult time. Thats 
an unfortunate knock-on effect of my decision. Its certainly not my intention to add to Mr S 
troubles. I hope he understands that I must come to my conclusions based solely on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, and mustnt be swayed by the 
difficult circumstances he may be experiencing. 
Further, as I said in my provisional decision, the four estimates Mr S has provided are all 
from garages that are offering their services for a fee. That is they stand to make a profit if 
Mr S was to instruct one of them to carry out the repairs. So I don't think their estimates are 
independent, and I don't know if they've assessed the circumstances of the accident to 
ensure that all the damage is accident related. So I remain of the opinion that a fair way for 
AXA to sort out the issue with Mr S repairs is to appoint an independent engineer to assess 
and estimate the costs for a reasonable repair, as set out in my provisional decision.
As neither Mr S nor AXA objected to any of my other findings I see no reasons to change 
them.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to:
Arrange for an independent engineer to inspect Mr S car, as described above. And, 
if rectification work is required, it should pay Mr S a cash-in-lieu sum, as estimated by 
the independent engineer to fix those things. The independent engineers estimate 
should include reasonable costs for the provision of a hire car while those repairs are 
ongoing. AXA may deduct the £150 its already paid directly to Mr S to cover the cost 
of further repairs from its settlement.
Pay Mr S £500 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience. This is in 
addition to the compensation it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman