DRN-3124447
The complaint
Mr C and Miss F are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr C and Miss F booked a holiday abroad  they were due to travel in 
April 2020. On 7 March 2020 they took out a travel insurance policy to cover their trip. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic the Foreign and Commonwealth Development 
Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad on 17 March 2020. That advice 
remained in place on the date of Mr C and Miss Fs planned departure. Mr C and Miss Fs 
flight was cancelled and they were unable to recover the cost of their unused 
accommodation. 
Mr C and Miss F claimed on their travel insurance policy. URV declined the claim on the 
basis it wasnt an insured event under the policy. Mr C and Miss F appealed the decision but 
URV maintained their decision to decline the claim. So, Mr C and Miss F made a complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and clarified that it was only the 
accommodation costs that Mr C and Miss F were claiming for as theyd since received a 
refund for their flight costs. URV said Mr C and Miss F bought the policy with the intention of 
claiming, given the impact of the pandemic. However, our investigator wasnt persuaded that 
was the case. She also concluded that the limitations on the cover for cancellation due to a 
change in FCDO advice werent clearly set out in the policy terms and conditions.  
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the 
policy set out what was covered and only the listed, insured events were covered. So, I need 
to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says there is no cover for:
Events of (sic) situations you know about before taking out a policy or booking a trip 
which could mean that you cant travel. 
On page two it says: 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.  
 
Page seven of the policy terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which 
cancellation is covered. Cover is available if the policyholder has to cancel a trip if one of the 
following circumstances unexpectedly arose before they left home:   
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood;
you were called for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant; 
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled.
However, the policy also has an exclusion within the criteria for purchase, on page one of 
the policy, which says that the insurance will only be valid if the consumer:
Is not travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time 
of your departure. 
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because:
 Mr C and Miss F bought their policy prior to the World Health Organisation declaring 
Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And I dont think, at that point in time, Mr C and Miss F 
could have reasonably considered that their trip in April 2020 would be cancelled due 
to Covid-19. Ive also not been provided with any evidence to demonstrate that URV 
provided Mr C and Miss F with information to say that claims relating to Covid-19 
would not be covered. If that was URVs position at the time Mr C and Miss F bought 
the policy Id have expected that to be made clear during the sales process or in the 
policy documentation. So, I dont think its fair for URV to decline to cover Mr C and 
Miss Fs claim for that reason.  
Mr C and Miss F cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something 
that is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or 
listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr C and Miss F had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
cancellation due to changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered. I dont think that 
was made sufficiently clear to Mr C and Miss F.   
Mr C and Miss F would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in 
order to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think 
that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently 
clear.  
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr C, 
Miss F and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr C and Miss F would have purchased the 
policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. In reaching that conclusion Ive 
taken into account that its most likely they could have purchased cover which 
included cover for such changes in FCDO guidance at the relevant time. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr C and Miss Fs complaint about Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman