DRN-1760877
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was unable to use online banking on her Barclays Bank UK PLC 
account when she wanted to make a payment.
What happened 
Mrs C has a current account with Barclays. On 5 December 2019 she wanted to use 
Barclays online banking facility to make a payment but because of technical issues she 
wasn't able to do so. As a result, Mrs Cs payment was delayed until the following day.
Barclays said Mrs C could have used alternative ways to make the payment but 
acknowledged there were technical issues with online banking and paid Mrs C £35 in 
compensation.
Mrs C asked this service to look at her complaint about her account as she didn't feel 
Barclays' offer was reasonable. Mrs C said she wanted more compensation for the 
inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked at Mrs Cs complaint and felt Barclays offer of £35 was fair so 
didn't ask them to increase the award. Mrs C doesn't agree that the settlement Barclays paid 
is fair and asked for her case to be passed to an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed there were technical problems with their online service on 5 December 
2019 which meant Mrs C wasn't able to use it to make a payment. Barclays accepts they 
weren't able to provide an online service to Mrs C when she needed it and paid her 
compensation for the inconvenience that caused. I now need to decide whether the 
settlement was fair.
Mrs C has asked us to look at her complaint and Ive thought carefully about whether the 
£35 Barclays paid in relation to the technical problems Mrs C experienced is fair on its own. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that it is. Barclays and Mrs C have told us that the payment 
was made the following day. I do appreciate she may have wanted to make the payment on 
that specific day, but had she wanted to she could have tried to use other services like 
telephone banking or visiting a branch. 
I understand the time taken by using telephone banking or visiting a branch may have been 
longer than she would have liked but if she needed to make the payment, she could have 
done so. So, I havent found the issues would have meant it was unreasonably inconvenient. 
Although I appreciate using her online banking wouldve been more convenient.So I think the £35 Barclays paid Mrs C fairly reflects the overall impact of the technical 
issues on Mrs C. As a result, Im not telling Barclays to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman