DRN-1099632
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited ('L&G') has refused to 
pay a terminal illness benefit claim on behalf of her late husband, Mr S.  
Mrs S is being represented by her niece, Miss S. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a joint life assurance policy with her husband in September 2006. The policy 
was set up on a decreasing term basis and had an initial sum assured of £300,000. It was 
set up for a twelve-year term. The policy had additional terminal illness and waiver of 
premium benefits.  
Mr S became seriously unwell in 2010. He was diagnosed with a specific type of progressive 
chronic polyneuropathy. 
In 2011, Mr S contacted L&G to discuss a waiver of premium claim. At that time, Mr S 
decided not to pursue with the claim as his business was still operating.   
In October/November 2012 Mr S ceased running his business. By this time, he had become 
totally incapacitated, which left him housebound and in need of full-time care. In May 2013, 
Mr S was approved for state incapacity benefits. As Mr Ss condition worsened, his treating 
consultant felt he might also be suffering from progressive muscular atrophy, one of the four 
most common types of motor neurone disease (MND). This was given as a second, 
differential diagnosis. Sadly, Mr S passed away in July 2018 from respiratory failure caused 
by his type of chronic polyneuropathy.  
In September 2018, Miss S asked L&G about a retrospective terminal illness benefit claim. 
She said Mr Ss daughter called L&G in 2013 to pursue a terminal illness claim but L&G 
would not permit it. Mr Ss daughter did not realise that a waiver of premium was an option, 
and Miss S says that L&G didnt tell her about it. 
Given his circumstances, Mr and Mrs S could no longer afford the cover, and paid their last 
premium shortly afterwards on 15 April 2013. The policy lapsed the following month.   
After obtaining consent from Mrs S, L&G investigated the claim. In May 2019, L&G said it 
was unable to make any retrospective payment to Mrs S. L&G said there was no medical 
evidence available that showed Mr S met the terminal illness wording in the joint policy terms 
at any time before the cover lapsed in May 2013. 
It also said it had no record of a call in 2013 about a terminal illness claim or a waiver of 
premium claim. 
L&G believed Mrs S had ample opportunity to ensure the policy didnt lapse. Nonetheless, it 
considered whether a waiver of premium benefit ought to have been applied at the time the 
policy lapsed. This benefit would have meant Mr and Mrs S did not need to pay their policy premiums once Mr S had been incapacitated for more than six months (which would have 
been from May 2013 onwards).  
L&G said that if a claim had been pursued in 2013, it would have met the claim until January 
2014. During this month, Mr S would have reached the maximum age for waiver of premium 
benefit. Thereafter, Mr and Mrs S would have had to pay the policy premiums. On that basis, 
L&G said it had looked at whether a terminal illness claim could have been paid between 
May 2013 and January 2014.  
Though Mr S would have had a limited life expectancy without ventilator support, he had a 
longer life expectancy of between one and five years with the support (his consultant said 
this was the estimate from around 2013 or 2014). L&G concluded that the earliest point it 
could have accepted a claim was in November 2015, by which time the policy was no longer 
in force. It therefore refused the claim.  
Miss S complained on Mrs Ss behalf, but L&G was not willing to change its view on the 
claims decision. 
Miss S brought Mrs Ss complaint to this service. She said that the life expectancy of one to 
five years did not account for the breathing machine Mr S required, which was a form of life 
support. She explained that if Mr S had been removed from the machine, hed have passed 
away quickly, and certainly within less than the twelve months required by the policy terms.  
She also said a waiver of premium claim should have been admitted in 2013 and L&G knew 
Mr Ss daughter had called about the policy at that time. 
Miss S noted that L&G only asked Mr Ss treating consultant about the breathing machine 
because she pushed for it; this was unreasonable andhas wasted further time. Nonetheless, 
she feels the evidence is clear  while the premiums were being paid (or whilst they should 
have been waived by L&G), Mr S was being kept alive solely by his breathing machine.   
An investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded it should not succeed. He felt that the 
breathing equipment was a reasonable treatment to extend Mr Ss life. On that basis, he said 
L&G could assess Mr Ss life expectancy on the basis that he continued the treatment. Since 
that expectancy exceeded the period when the policy was in force, the investigator said L&G 
had fairly declined the claim.  
L&G said it had nothing else to add. 
Miss S said Mrs S disagreed. She said she wanted an ombudsman to look at everything 
again. Specifically, she noted: 
Mr S would have likely died within hours without his breathing machine;
the evidence from Mr Ss treating consultant is clear about death occurring without 
the machine;
she and Mrs S believe the policy terms are being misapplied in order to avoid paying 
a claim;
the machine wasnt a treatment option, it was life support. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I was very sorry to learn of Mr Ss conditions and that he has sadly passed away in 2018. I 
can see how upsetting the circumstances are for Mrs S, Miss S and Mr Ss family. Though I 
know it will be a disappointment for them, I have reached the same outcome as our 
investigator. On the information Ive seen, I dont find L&G to have acted unfairly and so I 
cannot uphold the complaint about the failure to pay the claim now. Ill explain why below.  
The matter before me is whether L&G was reasonably entitled to decline to pay the sum 
assured under the term assurance policy before it expired. The parties disagree about what 
went on during 2013  Miss S says her cousin called L&G and was misled about the type of 
claim she could pursue. L&G says it has no record whatsoever of that call taking place, yet it 
does have records of all other correspondence. 
It isnt possible for me to say categorically whether the call did or didnt happen, as there are 
two directly opposing accounts. In any event, I dont believe its necessary for me to do so. 
Thats because the waiver of premium benefit could not have continued beyond January 
2014 because of Mr Ss age. Miss S has said how the family couldnt afford to maintain the 
policy. So L&G ought to (as it has done) assess if any viable terminal illness claim could 
have been made before the policy would have ended in 2014. 
So, it is the date of January 2014 that is relevant to the matter I must consider. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy schedule said:
If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly 
progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our 
Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & 
General will make an advance payment of the Sum Assured payable for the policy 
year in which the Terminal Illness Benefit is paid. The Benefit will not be available 
during the 18 months immediately before the Expiry Date.
Mr S was not given a prognosis of life expectancy no greater than twelve months at any time 
before 2014. But, his attending consultant neurologist has provided his retrospective 
thoughts now and this is evidence Ive considered carefully.  
I appreciate Miss Ss thoughts about treatment options. She doesnt believe breathing 
apparatus is a form of treatment. She also infers that L&G shouldnt consider treatment 
options, because thats not what the policy requires.
I do agree that the wording above does not expressly require a policyholder to have 
exhausted every treatment option that may exist. Nor does it go so far as to set out what a 
treatment option may comprise. But, the wording does require a policyholder to have 1) an 
advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness and 2) the opinions of a chief medical 
officer (CMO) and attending consultant to support the life expectancy being no more than 
twelve months. The opinions of the medical specialists will likely consider any treatment that 
their patient could reasonably undertake so as to prolong their life. That must be the case, 
because many conditions which could potentially be life-threatening do not progress to 
terminal illnesses if they are capable of being successfully treated.   
When he supplied his first report of February 2019, the consultant said:
By 2013, he developed some breathlessness with significant motor weakness, and I 
wrote to a colleague of mine, [Dr P] Consultant Physician in Respiratory Medicine 
seeking his advice and my letter clearly stated that I have not reached a definitive 
diagnosis and the differential diagnosis remains between [polyneuropathy] or a type 
of motor neurone disease.  And in view of his breathlessness, I have asked him to assess him from a respiratory point of view where it was clear by 2013, beginning of 
2014 that he started to require non-invasive ventilatory support to keep his 
oxygenisation in balance.
He continued to deteriorate slowly and gradually, but I have made it clear to the 
family that from 2013/2014 his prognosis is poor and once we established the 
diagnosis of motor neurone disease, the life expectancy will fall between one year, 
maximum five years.
L&G (at Miss Ss request) went back to the treating consultant in early March 2019 and 
asked for two further questions to be answered  1) for how many hours per day Mr S 
required the ventilator and 2) how the ventilator would have affected Mr Ss life expectancy. 
The consultant replied in April 2019. He said:
Mr [S] was referred to [a named] hospital in 2013 where he was seen by [Dr P and] 
diagnosed with severe respiratory muscle weakness related to his progressive 
neurological disease and type 2 respiratory failure where he was advised to have 
non-invasive ventilatory support. Initially it was for 12 hours which increased slowly 
and gradually, and the settings were increased in January 2014. 
Respiratory type 2 failure is a serious disease that will lead to death if not treated. 
Hence Mr [S] was advised to use the ventilatory support which he required 
subsequently over time to keep his oxygenisation stable, otherwise the life 
expectancy would be below the 12 months period in 2013/2014.
By 30 December 2014, the consultant had undergone a periodic review of Mr S, where he 
noted that he was pleased to hear that the overall picture remains stable.  
I do appreciate the serious nature of Mr Ss position at that time in 2013/2014. I can see from 
the medical records and Miss Ss account that Mr S was paralysed by his condition. I also 
recognise that the provision of non-invasive ventilation (NIV) was with a view to keeping Mr 
S alive. However, I dont agree with Miss S on behalf of Mrs S when she says that the 
consultant gave Mr S a life expectancy of less than twelve months once he began to suffer 
respiratory failure. That isnt what he is saying.  
The consultant has split his estimates of life expectancy because Mr S had a secondary 
condition. He does not agree that the differential diagnoses of polyneuropathy and MND are 
rapidly progressing as required by the policy terms. He explains that these were getting 
slowly and gradually worse and sadly this position meant that Mr S would likely live for a 
further one to five years at that time (in 2013/2014). 
Where the shorter assessment of expectancy comes in is with respect to Mr S going on to 
have type 2 respiratory failure that remained untreated; respiratory failure is sadly the 
primary cause of death as a secondary issue in those suffering from MND.  
What the consultant says above is that if Mr S did not have NIV then he would have had a 
life expectancy of less than a year. But, the purpose of NIV was to restore optimal oxygen 
and levels and prolong Mr Ss life. The NIV machine was an option open to Mr S to manage 
his respiratory symptoms. I believe that is a form of treatment. 
I think L&Gs CMO was right to assess Mr Ss life expectancy on the basis he continued to 
have that treatment, as Mr S had access to a machine at home via the National Health 
Service.  Im not saying that I believe all available treatment options must be undertaken by a person 
with a terminal illness for the purposes of satisfying a terminal illness benefit claim. Each 
claim will depend on a policyholders specific condition and variables such as their 
circumstances, the availability of any proposed treatment and the risks attached. But I do 
think it is fair for an insurer to ask a policyholders consultant about any treatment, therapy or 
means of management for a condition which could have an impact upon his or her life 
expectancy. That is what has happened here. 
It follows that I believe L&G has acted legitimately in refusing the retrospective claim, since 
the evidence from the consultant does not support that Mr S had less than twelve months to 
live (and therefore would have had a viable terminal illness claim) at any time before the 
policy would have ended in January 2014, if the waiver of premium benefit was applied in 
2013.  
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Ss circumstances, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman