DRN-2673527
The complaint
Mr S complains that a finance agreement he entered into with FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford 
Credit, was misrepresented to him.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for 
what is said by a credit broker (the dealership in this instance) before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. So, I think FCE are responsible for what Mr S was told when he 
entered into the finance agreement.
s94 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says:
Where a debtor takes the steps in subsection 4 [this details the consumers obligations] his 
indebtedness shall be discharged by an amount equal to the sum of the amount paid and 
any rebate allowable.
FCE suggest that means if you make over payments it will reduce the term of the contract. 
But thats not quite what the legislation is saying as its explaining that if an overpayment is 
made the debt should be reduced by that amount and this could either reduce the term or 
reduce the monthly payments. Theres no rebate to reflect the unearned interest element 
here as the credit was interest free.
But the legislation doesnt tell the business how it needs to treat the overpayment. It says the 
term could be reduced or the monthly payments reduced. FCE have explained that in these 
circumstances they reduce the term and I think thats reasonable. Mr S has explained that 
hes been able to reduce his instalments when hes overpaid on other agreements and I 
dont dispute thats been the case as different finance providers may choose to reduce the 
term, reduce the payments, or provide an option for the consumer.
I think the dealership should have explained this to Mr S and they shouldnt have suggested 
the payments may be reduced when thats not something FCE allowed.
Mr S says the deal was misrepresented to him. A misrepresentation occurs when a 
consumer is told something that is false and when that induces him to enter into an 
agreement he would not have otherwise entered into.
I think Mr S was told something that was false because he was told the payments could be 
reduced. But Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence he would not have entered into 
the agreement if he wasnt told that.
I say that because:
whilst I understand Mr Ss desire to know he could reduce instalments in the future I 
dont think the absence of that would have been so detrimental that he would have 
walked away from the deal;
this was a 0% APR agreement and Mr S would not have been able to find a more 
advantageous rate if he had used an alternative finance provider.
But whilst I dont think the agreement was misrepresented to Mr S I do think hes been 
inconvenienced by this issue and FCE should therefore compensate him for that.
  
Putting things right
Mr S has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. It will, Im sure, have been distressing for him to realise what he was told by 
the dealership was not what FCE would do. In the circumstances I think FCE should pay him 
£200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell FCE Bank Plc to pay 
Mr S £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman