DRN-1233902
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P complain that The Co-operative Bank plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold a  
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs P in 2006, in connection with a 
remortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr P if he couldnt work because of accident 
or sickness.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
If Britannia gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs?
Did Britannia give Mr and Mrs P the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs P are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps case and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs P say they dont remember PPI being discussed when they remortgaged, and 
they didnt know it had been added to their account. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs P and 
Britannia when the policy was sold. 
But Ive reviewed the documents from the point of sale, and note that Britannia carried out a 
demands and needs assessment for Mr and Mrs P. Following the assessment 
Britannia recommended the PPI to them. It said, in connection with Mr P:'I recommended our Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance policy which would cover you 
for up to 12 months in the event of Accident and Sickness...
...You accepted this recommendation.'
The PPI was also described as Optional Insurance in Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs P have told me, it seems likely to 
me that Britannia made them aware the PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
Britannia advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Mr P was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
Mr P says he had a separate insurance policy that would've covered him for accident 
or sickness, although he hasn't been able to provide a copy of the paperwork. So I 
don't think I can safely say that the PPI would've duplicated any other insurance 
benefits he might have been entitled to. Mr P says he and Mrs P also had some 
savings. Mrs P has also told me she was entitled to state benefits that could've been 
used to cover the mortgage repayments. But having the policy in place would mean 
Mr and Mrs P could use their savings and Mrs P's benefits to pay for other expenses. 
So I still think Mr and Mrs P would have had some use for the policy despite their 
existing arrangements.
Mr P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions. Mr P has told me he 
was self-employed when he took out the policy. But the PPI didn't provide 
unemployment benefit, so this point doesn't change my overall conclusions about the 
complaint. As Mr P could have benefited from the full extent of the policy's cover I 
think it unlikely he and Mrs P needed better advice or information about its exclusions 
and limitations.
The PPI cost was set out in Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage offer, so I think they wouldve 
known how much they were paying for the cover and found it acceptable. The policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs P would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided.
 
Its possible the information Britannia gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr P wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
P would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman