DRN-2882954
The complaint
Mr M complains about the handling of his claims by The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited. 
What happened
Mr M complains about 2 claims he made with The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU Mutual). 
A claim was made in June 2020 by Mr M but there was a delay in processing the claim and 
Mr M and his vet needed to chase NFU Mutual to get it progressed. Mr M complained to 
NFU Mutual. NFU Mutual considered his complaint and decided to uphold it. They 
apologised for the delay caused and the poor service. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and didnt feel they had dealt adequately with the 
complaint for their error. During the process of the complaint Mr M highlighted that a 
previous claim made in 2019 hadnt been settled as it should have been. This claim should 
have been settled in April 2020 but due to a delay in the payment it wasnt settled until 
September 2020.
NFU Mutual issued a further response and acknowledged an error had been made in 
processing the payment in April 2020 so offered £100 compensation for the poor service Mr 
M had received in each of the claims. Mr M remained unhappy and said that hed incurred 
late charges from his vet and that the problems caused by the delays had led to a 
breakdown in relationship with his vet  so he referred the complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that NFU Mutual considered the 
complaint appropriately and so she wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mr M 
disagreed and felt NFU Mutual should do more, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why
Mr M raised various points in regard to the service he received especially on the claim made 
in June 2020. Mr M feels there is still some conjecture in regard to whether a claim form was 
sent by NFU Mutual in June 2020. NFU Mutual have provided us with its internal notes and 
from the information provided its likely that the forms were sent out on 24 June 2020. 
But I dont think thats the main issue here as clearly the claim form wasnt received by the 
vet. The issue is NFU Mutual didnt chase this up as they have said they should have done. 
NFU Mutual said they normally chase a claim form after 20 working days. They gave Mr M 
the date of 15 July 2020 as to when it should have been chased but I dont think this is 
correct as 20 working days would actually have been 22 July 2020. In the meantime, Mr Ms 
vet had already chased the claim form so NFU Mutual says this chaser dated for 22 July 
2020 was closed before any chaser went out. 
Mr Ms vet chased NFU Mutual for the claim form on 20 July 2020 and it was resent to the 
vet the same day. Mr M also chased on 21 July 2020 but Im satisfied by this time Mr Ms 
vets had received the claim form, I say this because the date his vet has signed the claim 
form was 20 July 2020. Once the claim form was returned to NFU Mutual the claim was 
accepted. 
I can see there was some confusing information provided to Mr M about the date the claim 
form should have been chased but overall I dont think this had a substantial impact on how 
the claim was ultimately settled or the length of time it took to be accepted. 
Mr M also had concerns about a previous claim which should have been paid in April 2020. 
NFU Mutual have said that this was an error on their part as incorrect details were used. The 
vets needed to chase this a number of times. This led to a 4 month delay in the payment 
being made to the vets. Mr M has said this led to him incurring late fees from the vets.  
NFU Mutual upheld Mr Ms complaints and offered to pay a total of £100 in compensation for 
the poor service on each claim. Mr M said this wasnt sufficient saying hed incurred late fees 
and that the delays had led to his vet terminating their working relationship with him, so he 
felt this had a significant impact.  
Having considered the terms of the policy they say that late fees arent something that would 
be covered under the policy and that the insured (Mr M) must employ the vet at their own 
expense, so whilst NFU Mutual may be able to assist by paying the vet directly, the payment 
of the vets fees will always have been the responsibility of Mr M. But in this case, Ive look at 
the invoice from his vets and I cant see any specific referral to Mr M having to pay late fees 
 however there are some surcharges, but these seem to have been reversed so I dont 
think Mr M has incurred any late charges on the evidence I have seen.  
I can see that the investigator spoke to Mr Ms vet about the breakdown in relationship and 
they have confirmed that the breakdown wasnt due to the delay in payments by NFU 
Mutual. Mr M has asked us what reason his vets have given for the breakdown but that is a 
matter for him to speak to the vets directly.   
I realise Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. But when looking at the offer of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, the awards we recommend are modest and 
essentially depend on the impact caused. So, I think that NFU Mutuals offer of £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to do 
anything further in relation to Mr Ms complaint. 
 
I also note Mr M is unhappy with the handling of his complaint by NFU Mutual. But as our 
investigator explained to Mr M, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so it doesnt fall 
within my remit to consider specifically how NFU Mutual handled Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
I am aware that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited has made an 
offer to pay £100 to Mr M. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited should pay Mr M £100, if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman