DRN-2834295
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) offered for his car under his 
motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy about the customer service he received during 
the claims process.
All references to Lloyds will include the underwriter (insurer) and its agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in May 2021 that Ill summarise below.
Mr M was paid less than the market value for his car when it was written off. Lloyds said this 
was because Mr M had agreed to its terms and conditions where these said there was a limit 
of £3,250, less excess, on the amount it would pay under any claim. This figure was based 
on the estimate of the value of Mr Ms car that he gave to the broker when setting up the 
policy.
I explained in my provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint for 
different reasons provided by the investigator and for a slightly different amount of redress. 
In summary, I said the reasons for this decision were as follows:
I could see the value of Mr Ms car was based solely on his estimate of its value. 
Mr M didnt appear to have any experience of valuing cars. Overall, I didnt think it 
was fair for Lloyds to rely on the value that Mr M gave. Instead, I said it should pay 
the market value of the car particularly as the cost of cover would not have changed 
even if Mr M had given an accurate value for his car;
In terms of how much Lloyds should pay Mr M, I considered the average value from 
trade guides and engineers report should be used. On this basis, I thought the claim 
should be settled for £4,949 less excess. Taking into account what Lloyds had 
already paid Mr M this meant it needed to pay him an additional £1,699 plus 8% 
simple interest;
I referred to the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 to 
assess whether any proportionate adjustments needed to be made to the claim. But 
as Lloyds had confirmed that if Mr M had given the value of £5,000 for his car this 
would not have made any difference to the cost of cover, I didnt think any adjustment 
was necessary;
I noted Lloyds submissions about previous decisions. However, I said that each case 
is decided on its own individual merits;
Finally, I considered the £100 Lloyds had already paid Mr M for some customer 
service issues, was fair.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments and evidence. Mr M agreed with my 
provisional decision. Lloyds disagreed and made a number of further comments, all of which 
Ive read and carefully considered when reaching my final decision. 
In summary, Lloyds said the following:
It was important to note that the insurer wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy 
by the broker. And the broker wasnt acting as an agent for the insurer when it sold 
the policy to Mr M; 
Whilst Mr M didnt have experience in valuing cars, he was aware he purchased the 
car for £5,000 in 2018. Lloyds didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr M to have 
quoted a schedule value of £3,000 to £3,250;
In my decision I noted that the insurer failed to agree or check the value the 
policyholder gave before adding it to the schedule. Lloyds said it would argue that 
any responsibility to agree or check the value Mr M gave lay with the independent 
broker selling the policy and it was reasonable for insurer to accept the information 
put forward by the independent broker and provide cover as requested;
Underwriters/ insurers are required to provide clear information about any policy 
limitations in the pre-sale documentation so that a policyholder can make an 
informed choice whether to proceed with the insurance contract. Lloyds pointed to 
the fact that the key facts documents drew Mr Ms attention to the limits of the policy 
and that he was told to read this carefully before agreeing to the terms;
Lloyds again referred to other decisions by our service where ombudsmen didnt 
uphold the complaint under similar circumstances;
Lloyds said that it didnt think my reference to CIDRA was relevant as the insurer 
hasnt sought to rely on or apply the misrepresentation clause in the policy terms. 
Lloyds said the complaint relates to whether its fair for the insurer to rely on and 
apply the appropriately highlighted and clear policy terms which state the most that 
will be paid in the event of a total loss claim is the schedule value.
So the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Lloyds for responding to my provisional decision and providing further 
comments. However, its comments havent changed my decision of this case overall. Ill 
explain why.
I wont repeat what I said in my provisional decision which Ive summarised above. Instead 
Ill focus on responding to the comments and evidence submitted by Lloyds which Ive also 
summarised above.
Its not in dispute that Mr M knew the value of the car when he purchased it two years before 
the accident. But I dont think he expected the cars value to remain the same as the 
purchase price from two years previous. Further, the insurer is seeking to rely on a term 
which only it has benefited from  by underestimating the value of his car, Mr M was paying 
the same amount that he would have had to pay if hed given the higher market value figure 
of £5,000. In this scenario, the insurer has benefitted from paying Mr M a lower settlement 
figure in discharge of his claim whilst Mr M has lost out by underestimating the value of his 
vehicle. As Ive said above, the insurer has confirmed that if Mr M had said that his car was 
worth £5,000 this would not have affected the cost of cover.
Under all these circumstances, I dont think its fair for Lloyds to rely on the value that Mr M 
stated when he first took out the policy. And I think Lloyds should reasonably offer him the 
cars market value at the time of loss.
I accept that Lloyds isnt responsible for the conduct of the brokers. But I dont think the reasons Ive given for reaching my decision, relate to the brokers actions. And I dont doubt 
that the terms of the policy were clear. I havent disputed these points. I simply consider it 
wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to rely on the limit as set out in the schedule for the reasons Ive 
set out above.
Lloyds has pointed to other decisions by this service. I cant comment on the decision it sent 
to me in support of its case. But I can see that there are other decisions, which have 
determined that it would be unfair for the insurer to rely on the limits set out in the policy 
schedule. Equally there are decisions which have found in favour of the insurer. This is 
because each complaint is decided on a case by case basis, which will inevitably lead to 
some differences in outcomes. Im satisfied that on the facts of this particular case, it would 
be unfair for Lloyds to rely on the limit set out in Mr Ms policy.
I also note what Lloyds has said about CIDRA. I accept it didnt raise this as an issue. Im 
happy to concede this point. My only reason for raising it was to see whether it would be fair 
to reduce the amount Lloyds needed to pay Mr M in terms of his claim. But under the 
circumstances, Im happy to agree that CIDRA isnt relevant to the outcome of this case.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint and will ask Lloyds to pay the redress as 
set out below.
   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and I order Society of Lloyd's to pay Mr M an additional £1,699 plus 
8% simply interest per year calculated from the date it paid his claim to the date it makes the 
additional payment.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman