DRN-3781414
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard reported his credit card
balance exceeded its credit limit during a payment holiday.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr H has a credit card with Barclaycard and entered a payment holiday, approved under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Payment Deferral Guidance. The guidance said 
businesses could offer customers payment holiday support during the pandemic that 
wouldnt impact their credit file.
During the payment holiday the balance on Mr Hs credit card increased to the point it 
exceeded Mr Hs credit limit. Barclaycard reported that information to the credit reference 
agencies.
Barclaycard says it sent Mr H an email to let him know about the position of his account. 
But Mr H has explained the email was sent to an old address and wasnt received.
Mr H complained and highlighted guidance Barclaycard had provided online that said it 
would send a text message to warn customers about exceeding their credit limit. Mr H 
explained no such text message had been sent. Barclaycard issued a final response but 
said Mr H was only set up for payment alerts by text message and that it was his 
responsibility to manage the account in line with its terms.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint. They thought Barclaycard had 
dealt with Mr H fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H asked to appeal, so his 
complaint was passed to me.
I recently contacted Barclaycard and asked it to consider reviewing the outcome of Mr Hs 
complaint. I highlighted guidance from its website that advised customers text messages 
would be sent to warn them if their account balance exceeded the credit limit. I asked 
Barclaycard to consider removing the over limit information and compensating Mr B for the 
trouble and upset caused. I didnt receive a response by the agreed deadline, so Ive taken 
the step of issuing a provisional decision, upholding Mr Hs complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard provided evidence from its website showing the information it gave customers 
whove taken payment holidays due the impact of Covid. Barclaycards website gave the 
following guidance:
Will I be charged interest on my Barclaycard while the payment holiday is in place?
Well still charge interest (in line with the existing rates) on your balance during the payment 
holiday your overall balance will grow so it may take longer to pay off your balance
Well text you if interest added to your balance during the payment holiday takes 
you over your credit limit. You can then make a payment. Bear in mind that your 
credit limit could be affected if youre unable to do so
I understand Mr B still needed to ensure he managed his account in line with its terms. And 
I note Barclaycards told us Mr H was only set up to receive texts for payment alerts. But I 
think its fair to say this was a new situation for Mr H and he was looking to Barclaycard to 
provide clear guidance and information. And Mr H has specifically explained he understood 
Barclaycard would text him if his balance exceeded the credit limit, in line with the 
information on its website.
I think Barclaycard shouldve made it clear Mr H would need to update his 
communication preferences to include account or balance warnings if he wanted to take 
advantage of the text messages as set out on its website. Im satisfied Mr H wouldve 
done so had he been advised to.
Mr H has told us he didnt receive the emails Barclaycard sent and, as set out above, 
expected to receive a text message to warn him about his balance if it exceeded the limit. 
Im satisfied thats the case. Im also satisfied Mr H wouldve taken quick action to bring his 
account balance within the agreed credit limit if hed received the text message, in line 
with Barclaycards website.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct 
Barclaycard to amend his credit file to remove references to his credit card balance 
exceeding the credit limit.
I can see the situation has been ongoing for some time and Im satisfied its caused Mr H a 
reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. So I also intend to tell Barclaycard to pay 
Mr H £250 to reflect that.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they were willing to accept. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have confirmed theyre willing to accept, Im going to proceed in line with my 
provisional decision. I still think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mr Hs credit file to reflect the balance as being within the credit limit during 
the payment holiday period
- Pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman