DRN-2951281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
On 22 February 2020, Mr and Mrs S purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays taken in Europe. The agreed start date of the policy was the 
same date as it was purchased  22 February 2020. With the end date being a year later, on 
21 February 2021. The policy provided Mr and Mrs S with cover for any trips within this time 
period, for a duration of 50 days. The premium charged for the policy was £146.74 and 
included cover for a total of two medical conditions.
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs S were able to enjoy one trip under the policy. But a 
couple of months later, on 5 May 2020, they contacted Great Lakes in respect of their policy.
They noted that because of the coronavirus pandemic  and its impact on travel  they were 
unlikely to be able to travel again within the policy year. And so, they requested a cash 
refund of the premium they had paid, for the part of the policy they would no longer be able 
to use. This would mean that Great Lakes would need to cancel the policy.
At this point Mr and Mrs S said they might also need to make a claim under the policy. And 
so Great Lakes said it wasnt able to cancel the policy if a claim was to be submitted (the 
policy would need to be in operation and the premium paid for a claim to be considered). Mr 
and Mrs S said they would think about their next steps.
A couple of days later, Mr and Mrs S contacted Great Lakes again and confirmed they would 
like to cancel the policy (no claim was being made). And they would like a cash refund for 
the unused part of their policy. Great Lakes cancelled the policy but didnt agree to a cash 
refund. Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair, so they raised a complaint about how the 
matter had been handled.
Great Lakes looked into Mr and Mrs S concerns. It explained that the terms and conditions 
of Mr and Mrs S policy explained that no refund would be provided, if a policy was cancelled 
after the 14-day cooling-off period. And that Mr and Mrs S had benefitted from cover from 22 
February 2020. 
It went on to say it did understand these are uncertain times and said it had been working to 
go above and beyond the terms and conditions of this policy. With this in mind, it said it 
would be willing to offer Mr and Mrs S a pro-rata credit voucher, for the value of £113.05. 
Great Lakes said the credit voucher could be used to purchase one of the following options;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates. 
A deferred annual policy. Mr and Mrs S could purchase this 12-month policy, at the 
current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy. 
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair. They remained of the opinion they should be provided 
with a pro-rata cash refund, instead of a voucher. Because they remained dissatisfied, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 22 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs S first requested cancellation of 
the policy on 5 May 2020, to the original end date of the policy on 21 February 2021. 
But she acknowledged that Great Lakes had decided to provide a pro-rata refund from the 
date of 14 April 2020, to the end date of the policy instead. She said that as Great Lakes had 
offered a pro-rata refund based on an earlier date than it needed to, she thought it had acted 
fairly in the circumstances.
Our investigator reviewed the calculation that had been completed by Great Lakes. And after 
discussing this with Great Lakes it was agreed that, instead of the refund being £113.05, it 
should in fact be £125.55. 
Mr and Mrs S response
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They said;
From March 2020 Great Lakes was not on risk at all  and so were benefitting from 
the premium paid, without the ability for any claim to be made. They noted they had 
no insurable interest in the policy from that point.
The circumstances were exceptional and should be treated as such.
Great Lakes was acting unreasonably in selling travel insurance at this time, when it 
wasnt clear when travel would start again  so the credit voucher offered was 
unreasonable.
If the policy had continued, and they had travelled abroad against government 
advice, the policy wouldnt have covered them if they had needed to claim.
Because Mr and Mrs S remained in disagreement, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S feel very strongly about this matter  and I can appreciate why. 
Id like to reassure them that Ive considered all of the points raised in respect of their 
complaint, including but not limited to the ones mentioned above. However, in providing my 
decision, Ive only referred to those I consider necessary to explain my reasoning on the 
outcome here.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs S.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs S wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy, and I do note they feel the circumstances here should be 
considered as exceptional, under the policy. But I dont think their reasons for cancelling the 
policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of £125.55 is now is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S were insured from 22 February 2020, when policy started, until they cancelled 
it, on 5 May 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 50 days in 
duration. Whether Mr and Mrs S went on any trips or not, Great Lakes were covering the risk of a claim occurring before they contacted it to cancel the cover. And the premiums charged 
to them, reflected this.
I do understand Mr and Mrs S have said Great Lakes werent insuring any risk, from the 
point government restrictions on travel came into place later in March 2020. And that if they 
had gone on holiday during this time, the policy would unlikely cover any claim - because 
they would have been travelling against government advice.  
But the policy didnt just provide cover whilst Mr and Mrs S were actually on holiday. The 
policy would still have provided cover for various risks from March 2020, until the policy was 
cancelled. For example, it would have provided cover for cancellation claims in certain 
circumstances. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide a 
refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs S cancelled their policy on 5 May 2020. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, 
Mr and Mrs S were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim under their 
insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under the policy 
from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy from that 
point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, I do think 
it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs S with a pro-rata refund, from 
5 May 2020, to the date the policy was originally due to end, which was 21 February 2021. 
In this case, Great Lakes has said that it would be willing to provide a pro-rata refund to Mr 
and Mrs S, and have calculated this from 14 April 2020. This is an earlier date then Mr and 
Ms S actually cancelled their policy on. As this means Great Lakes has acted in line with the 
above  and in fact offered slightly more  I think this is a fair and reasonable approach to 
take. And I dont require it to alter its decision in this case.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel that the refund should be paid to them in cash, and I have 
taken note of the reasons they feel this should be the way they are refunded. But Im 
satisfied the voucher offered is a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. 
I agree with the investigator that the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and 
Mrs S arent unreasonably restrictive, as theyve been offered different options. They would 
be able to use it for other trips, whether in the UK or abroad, given the terms and conditions 
of the voucher  including the ability to defer it by 12 months. And the voucher allows Mr and 
Mrs L cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned.
I also have to take account of the fact that neither the policy, or the industry guidelines 
provide for a refund in this sort of circumstance. And Ive seen no evidence the regulator of 
the industry has said that travel insurers shouldnt be providing insurance at this time. So, 
the offer of a voucher, given the unique situation Mr and Mrs S find themselves in, is a fair 
way to recognise the lack of risk posed after cancellation. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is now fair and I dont think Great Lakes 
has treated Mr and Mrs S differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. 
Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount from 14 April 2020, which is before the 
policy was actually cancelled, to the date the policy was due to end, 21 February 2021. This means the offer made to Mr and Mrs S is based on 314 days of unused cover. This equates 
to £125.55 of the premium paid. 
Given that the offer reflects the time Mr and Mrs S werent on risk under the policy (and 
slightly more time than this) I dont require Great Lakes to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has now 
offered Mr and Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman