DRN-3693711
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF)  has unfairly turned down his claims under sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In or around June 2010, Mr P purchased a trial membership (Sale 1) in a timeshare product 
provided by a timeshare supplier (who I shall refer to as C). The cost of the product 
purchased was £3,995, of which £3,600 was funded by entering into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with BPF in Mr Ps name.
In or around August 2010, Mr P purchased membership of a points-based timeshare product 
(Sale 2) provided by C. The cost of the product purchased was £11,224. A trade in value of 
£3,995 was allowed against rescinding his existing trial membership with the balance of 
£7,229 funded by entering into a new fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in Mr Ps name 
which. The new loan was also used to repaid Mr Ps existing loan with BPF resulting in a 
total loan of £10,829.
In or around August 2011, Mr P purchased additional timeshare product points (Sale 3) 
from C at a cost of £13,795. This was funded by entering into a new fixed sum loan 
agreement with BPF in Mr Ps name. This new loan also repaid the previous loan resulting in 
a total loan of £24,821.
On 13 July 2018, using a claims management company (CMC), Mr P made a claim to BPF 
under the CCA. The initial letter of claim, along with subsequent submissions made buy the 
CMC, runs to several pages. So, it isnt practical to repeat them in full here. But I will provide 
a summary of the key points below.
The CMC allege that Mr P purchased the trial membership and subsequent membership 
points having relied upon misrepresentations made by C and, under section 75 of the CCA 
(S75), BPF is jointly liable for those misrepresentations. The CMC also said that those 
misrepresentations, amongst other things, led to an unfair relationship under section 140A of 
the CCA (S140A).
In particular, the CMC allege that the following statements of misrepresentation were made 
by C as benefits of purchasing the timeshare products:
Mr P would be able to book holidays more readily and easily;
Mr P would be guaranteed to secure the holiday periods he required;
the membership and associated resorts were exclusive to product members;
Mr P would consistently benefit from access to higher quality accommodation;
the purchase(s) would prove to be a beneficial investment; and
Annual maintenance fees would be fixed or only ever decrease.
The CMC also made the following allegations to support why they believe the debtor-creditor 
relationship is unfair under S140A:
The contract(s) is considered unfair under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) in so far as:
owinding up of the membership would be considered once the final year of 
2054 was reached, rendering the contract as potentially in perpetuity; and
oMr P had no control of the management charge sums incurred and they 
werent clearly explained prior to execution of the purchase agreement.
C was acting as Mr Ps agent in providing access to finance, and in doing so, a 
breach of fiduciary duty had occurred as a result of commission paid by BPF to C not 
being disclosed to him;
update meetings to which Mr P was invited were not positioned as pressured sales 
presentations;
no alternative finance choices were offered or discussed; and
C and/or BPF failed to carry out a proper credit assessment.
Because of when the product sales took place, BPF said that Mr Ps claim had been brought 
too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). However, having reviewed his 
claim, they didnt agree there was sufficient evidence to support the allegations of 
misrepresentation. Further, BPF didnt agree there was any basis upon which theyd 
consider that an unfair debtor-creditor relationship existed.
As Mr P wasnt happy with BPFs response to his claim, the CMC referred matters to this 
service as a complaint. Having considered all the evidence and information available, our 
investigator didnt think BPF had acted unreasonably or unfairly in rejecting Mr Ps claim.  
So, the CMC asked that Mr Ps claim be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
In support of Mr Ps complaint, the CMC have asked me to consider the contents of a 46-
page document produced by Counsel containing Generic submissions on behalf of 
complainants, which relate to complaints about the sale of timeshare points-based products 
supplied by C. They also voiced various concerns about the way in which finance was sold 
to consumers when purchasing products supplied by C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr P paid 
for the timeshare products with funding under restricted use fixed sum loan agreements, so it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mr P is afforded the protection offered 
to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr P and BPF arising out of the 
credit agreements (taken together with any related agreements). And because the products 
purchased were funded under the credit agreements, theyre deemed to be related 
agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its 
relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. Given the facts of Mr Ps complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
This is because the original transactions - the purchases funded by loans with BPF - took 
place in 2010 and 2011. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its 
relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of, and response 
to, Mr Ps claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to 
me. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the 
consumer, we do not provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able 
to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the 
findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address every 
single point thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
The claim of misrepresentation under S75
Mr P says the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreements and benefits 
to him when he bought them. And the CMC believe this could bring cause for a claim under 
S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr P had to make any 
claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase contracts and credit agreements. 
The CMC confirm these took place in June 2010, August 2010 and September 2011. Thats 
because this is when they say Mr P lost out having relied upon the alleged false statements 
of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the CMC to BPF in July 2018. 
But as the later of the purchases was completed almost seven years after Mrs P first says he 
lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that his claim falls outside of the time limit permitted 
in the LA. So, I cant fairly say that BPFs response ultimately appears unreasonable here.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, the trigger point 
here is slightly different. Any relationship between Mr P and BPF continues while the finance 
agreements remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the 
borrowing under it has been repaid. Its at this point that Mr P has six years in which to make 
any claim under S140A.
He loan relating to Sale 1 was repaid in August 2010. So, as this is more than six years 
before the claim to BPF was made, I believe a court is likely to find this was made too late 
under the LA. Similarly, the loan in respect of Sale 2 was repaid and closed in August 2011. 
This was also more than six years before Mr Ps claim to BPF. So, its likely that a court 
would find this claim was also made to late.The final loan in respect of Sale 3 was established in August 2011. It was subsequently 
repaid and closed in January 2013. However, as this is less than six years before Mr P 
submitted his claim to BPF, I think the S140A claim in respect of Sale 3 was made in time. 
Misrepresentations
In determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard for any other thing 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of, the creditor1. I think the alleged misrepresentations 
are, therefore, relevant here. Further, even though I think it likely they couldnt be considered 
under S75 due to limitation, I think they could still be considered under S140A2. So, in trying 
to establish whether I think a court would likely find that an unfair relationship existed, Ive 
considered the alleged misrepresentations relating to Sale 3 further in addition to the various 
other points raised by the CMC.
It is suggested that C made various representations about Mr Ps ability to secure priority 
bookings and secure a certain level of luxury accommodation relative to other membership 
levels and/or non-members. From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mr 
P was specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the products(s) he purchased. 
Limited details have been provided about these representations and Mr Ps overall 
recollections of the sales process. Ive not seen any statement (evidentially supported or 
otherwise) from Mr P setting out his direct and specific memories. 
It was, however, indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent 
seen any documentation which supports Mr Ps assertions, like marketing material or 
documentation from the time of the sale that echoed what he says he was told. Whether in 
terms of booking availability, accommodation standard, the fixing of 
management/membership charges or the product being described as a beneficial 
investment.
Mr P appears to have signed and dated a members declaration on 16 August 2011. He also 
appears to have initialled against each point on that declaration. This includes 
acknowledgements about membership and management charge calculations and that the 
purchase was for the primary purpose of holidays rather than for trade in or investment. 
Further, Mr Ps signature and initials confirm that he fully understood the purchase 
agreement and had received and understood all accompanying documentation.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I therefore 
cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that C did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
Pressured sale
The CMC set out several allegations that Mr P was pressured into completing the purchase, 
Additionally, I noted that a number of points were made in the Counsels Submissions on 
allegations of pressure. However, these were generic points and not specific to Mr Ps 
recollections of the sale. So, I dont think they offer much help in making factual findings of 
pressure in Mr Ps case. 
If I was to agree that Mr P was pressured into purchasing the product, I think its possible a 
court may conclude this created an unfair relationship. However, to make that finding, I need 
to be persuaded it was more likely than not that this was the case. Specifically, that Mr P 
was not given a real choice in purchasing the product and he agreed to buy it when he 
otherwise didnt want to. To do that, I need to be persuaded that the sales presentation was 
an aggressive commercial practice to the extent it significantly impaired Mr Ps freedom of 
choice through the use of harassment, coercion, or undue influence. 
1 Under S140A(1)(c) of the CCA
2 See Scotland & Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 790Other than to suggest he was put under considerable pressure Mr P hasnt provided any 
details about what was said and why he felt this way. Its also relevant that as the third of 
three purchases from C, it seems likely Mr P was interested in this type of product.
Its my understanding that attendance of sales presentations is only compulsory where a 
consumer is partaking of, or attending under, a complimentary holiday or special promotion. 
So, while I appreciate Mr P believes he was coerced into attending further sales 
presentations. I think its likely he had the option, at all times, to leave any such meeting or 
presentation without agreeing to make a purchase. Ive certainly seen no evidence to 
support any suggestion that he may have been prevented from doing so.
Management charges
The CMC argues that the explanation of, and associated obligation to pay, management 
charges for the duration was unfair under the UTCCRs. Its important to consider how the 
membership operated in practice, including how Mr P could exit the contract beyond the 
initial 14-day cooling off period. 
The CMC havent provided all the related documentation that governs the points 
membership held by Mr P. But this service has been able to review various relevant 
membership related documents. Although not necessarily from the time of the sale, they 
ultimately apply to the membership Mr P holds. In particular, documentation from October 
2010, and where subsequently updated in December 2015. So, Ive considered if these 
couldve led to unfairness.
Article 123, October 2010 details what happens if a member fails to pay the due charge. 
They include extensive powers for C to make such debts immediately payable. C could also 
remove a members points or membership. I cannot see any de minimis debt clause.
In December 2015, article 12.2.7 introduced the concept of membership suspension, rather 
than removal. And the scheme regulations were also amended. I believe this meant that 
members fees didnt continue to accrue during suspension. And based upon this, I think its 
unlikely a court would consider the suspension terms created an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship.
I also note that the courts have previously held that a clause within the acquisition 
agreement created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. But its important to consider each 
case on its own merits. The presence of an unfair, or potentially unfair term alone wont, in 
my view, mean a court would automatically deem the relationship unfair. And in Mr Ps case, 
I havent seen (and it hasnt been alleged) that terms have been applied or operated unfairly 
against him.
Under article 7.2, a member could give notice to terminate. When read in conjunction with 
article 7.5, I believe a member wasnt obliged to pay outstanding fees before being able to 
give notice to terminate. Any outstanding fees and charges that would still be payable - 
including in the current year - could be paid after giving termination notice. So, I dont believe 
they would continue to accrue, and membership would, therefore, be suspended.
Either way, Mr P had options, including termination or suspension with possible 
reinstatement. The latter could be more favourable. So, I think its unlikely a court would say 
this created an unfair relationship.
Ive also considered article 12.5. Specifically in relation to liability for interest and legal costs. 
There isnt any suggestion that any of these have been incurred. So, in this instance, I cant 
see that this is likely to have created an unfair relationship either.
Disclosure of commissions
3 of Cs articles of associationMr Ps S140A claim is primarily based upon the status of C (as the introducer of the loan) 
and their resultant responsibilities towards him. In particular, it is argued that the payment of 
commission by BPF to C was kept from Mr P. But I dont think the fact that BPF might have 
paid C commission was incompatible with their role in the transaction. C wasnt acting as an 
agent for Mr P, but as the supplier of contractual rights obtained under the timeshare product 
agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it 
was Cs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr P advice or 
information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mr P was always at liberty to choose how he 
wanted to fund the transaction and there was no requirement or duty upon C to provide 
funding recommendations or options.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion 
or evidence that Mr P requested those details from BPF. As I understand it, the typical 
amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like C in this case) was unlikely to be 
much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find 
that the non-disclosure and payment of commission created and unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit Assessment
The CMC said that BPF failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment. There is 
limited information about what checks, and tests were completed when Mr Ps loan was first 
agreed. Although given the passage of time, I dont find it surprising that this information may 
no longer be readily available. Having said that, for me to uphold this aspect of Mr Ps 
complaint, I would still need to be satisfied that the loan was sustainably unaffordable to him 
and that, had proper checks been completed, they wouldve uncovered this.
Its important to highlight that an irresponsible lending complaint could be considered under 
a S140A claim. If the lending were unaffordable, I think its possible a court might conclude 
that gives rise to an unfair relationship. However, neither Mr P nor the CMC have provided 
any evidence to support any allegation that the loan was unaffordable for him. And with no 
information about Mr Ps actual position at the time and no evidence or suggestion that he 
struggled to maintain repayments; I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for 
him. And given the loan has now been fully repaid, there doesnt appear to be any evidence 
of loss here either.
Summary
Overall, I think its likely a court would find that any claim Mr P may have had under S75 was 
made too late under the provisions of the LA. And given the first two loans were repaid and 
closed more than six years before the claim was submitted, I think any claim under S140A 
for these is also likely to have been too late. However, having considered the circumstances 
and evidence available in respect of the third sale, I think itd unlikely that a court would find 
that an unfair debtor-credit relationship existed here. 
With all of that in mind, Im not persuaded that BPFs response to Mr Ps claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. And because of that, I wont be asking BPF to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2023.
 
Dave MorganOmbudsman