DRN-2010340
The complaint
Mrs H complains that in December 2005 A Share & Sons Limited (A Share), trading as SCS, 
mis-sold her a regular premium PPI policy with a hire-purchase loan to buy some furniture.
What happened
Mrs H took out a hire purchase (HP) loan to purchase some furniture in December 
2005. She had to pay a monthly instalment under the agreement for the furniture. Her 
HP payments didnt start until November 2006.
PPI was added at the same time. She had to pay a monthly payment for PPI cover. The 
policy wouldve covered her for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident 
sickness and unemployment. The payments for PPI began soon after she took out the 
HP loan and PPI, so before her HP payments started.
Mrs H said she didnt agree to take out the PPI and didnt need it as she was eligible to 
get up to 12 months sick pay through work, which she couldve used to make her 
repayments. She said she had life and critical illness cover too and was entitled to 
death in service benefits.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint because, in summary, in his view, A Share 
hadnt made it clear that during the first year Mrs H would be paying for PPI cover before 
her HP monthly payments began.
A Share didnt accept our investigators view and so Mrs Hs complaint comes to me for a 
decision. A Share said, in summary: 
every customer was given a document at the point of sale telling them they would 
need to make their own choice about whether to take out insurance cover. 
Mrs H completed the finance application and said she didnt want furniture cover, 
but asked for PPI cover, so she made her own choice.
given the nature of Mrs Hs job, she wouldve understood how PPI worked.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A Share didnt recommend Mrs H take out PPI. So, it didnt have to consider whether the 
policy was right for her. But, it did have to give her information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading about the PPI, so that she could make an informed decision and decide if the PPI 
was right for and she wanted to buy it.
Im not satisfied that A Share gave Mrs H clear enough information about the PPI. I think had 
A Share told Mrs H that she was paying for PPI cover for around a year before her HP 
payments began, she wouldnt have considered the policy worth it to her financially given her 
other resources.
So, I think Mrs H has lost out because of what A Share did wrong. I understand that Mrs H 
has already received some undisclosed commission back from the lender. So, that she is not 
put in a more favorable position, A Share can take off what she has already received from 
the lender when it puts matters right.
Putting things right
A Share will need to put Mrs H in the position she would be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. A Share will need to: 
A. Pay Mrs H the amount she paid each month for the PPI; 
B. Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year; 
c. If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, A Share can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her; 
e. A Share can also deduct the amount Mrs H has already received from the lender in 
respect of undisclosed commission. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires to take off tax from this interest. A Share will need to 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and order A Share & Sons Limited to put things right as set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman