DRN-3207036
The complaint
Ms H complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant), lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Ms H was approved for a loan for £2,500 in November 2015, and she was due to make 48 
monthly payments at over £139 each. Ms H did repay it in in January 2017.
Ms H says that she needed the money to consolidate another loan and needed to take a 
loan to repay this one. Ms H has not sent to us any evidence of this. Ms H told Avant that 
she did not earn a salary and received benefits of around £194 a week plus another benefit 
payment of about £137 a month. That came to about £914 a month and Avant has told us it 
used that figure when calculating affordability. 
Ms H gave to Avant copies of a bank statement for the period 13 October to 
12 November 2015, which showed transactions just before Avant approved the loan. It also 
searched her credit history and discovered that she had about £1,700 of existing debt 
(excluding mortgage debt). 
One of our adjudicators thought that Avant should have assessed her overall situation better. 
She thought that Avant knew Ms H had outstanding debt with creditors of £1,764 and was 
just within her credit limits. Whilst this loan may have been used to consolidate some of this 
debt, the amount being lent was much greater and would in fact increase her indebtedness 
overall. Our adjudicator thought that Avant should put things right for Ms H.
Avant disagreed and said that Ms Hs income was verified as £914.44 and the outgoings 
stated were £500. After paying instalment amount of £139.78 Ms H would have £274.66 
remaining for other expenses. The customer's credit file shows no defaults and the total 
amount funded if needed could have consolidated the balances.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint are:
Did Avant complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks 
have shown that Ms H would have been able to do so?
Did Avant act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Hs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms H undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
I appreciate that Avant obtained and reviewed a set of bank statements obtained from Ms H 
before lending. I think Avants checks were proportionate but it didnt react appropriately to 
the information it received. And before coming to that conclusion I have carefully thought 
about the evidence I have received from both parties. 
Before lending, Avant verified her income using the bank account statement and has told us 
that it calculated her outgoings to be £500. However, this expenditure figure has not been 
itemised and when I have reviewed that same month for the same bank account for Ms H, 
I can see she spent more than that. And I think that Avant would have seen that her 
expenditure added up to more than £500 and yet Ive seen no evidence it asked her about 
the transactions to assist it in identifying her outgoings. Ms H was on a low income and had no salary and so over the 48 month term the income 
was likely to be static at the £914 it did appear to be each month. As the bank account 
transactions demonstrate that Ms H was not managing to stay within her £200 overdraft 
facility and regularly was over it, then I think that she was only just managing to meet her 
current commitments. Not all of them were to creditors and the other outgoings were never 
verified by Avant before Ms H embarked on a four year term for a high cost credit loan. 
Avant has said that she could have consolidated the balances using the capital sum of 
£2,500 from Avant, but Ive seen no evidence that it either asked her about this or sought to 
assist her with that consolidation. And so, I do not think it was clear that Ms Hs plan was to 
use the loan capital to do that and Avant did not seem to be clear either.
I think that Avant did not do enough to know that Ms H was able to afford this loan for the 
four year period she was going to be committed to. So, I uphold her complaint. 
Ive reviewed the information I have to see if Avant was unfair towards Ms H in any other 
way and I have seen no evidence of that. 
Putting things right
I think Avant should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Ms H as payments towards the capital sum of £2,500;
if Ms H has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with interest* of 8% simple a year from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Ms Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to take off tax from this interest. Avant must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint and direct that AvantCredit of UK, LLC does as 
I have directed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman