DRN-1628402
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in May 1995 
on a credit card. Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct mis-sold him the PPI.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Bs complaint and didnt think first direct mis-sold the PPI to 
Mr B. As Mr B disagreed the case has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr B, first direct had to make it clear the policy was optional. It
also had to get Mr Bs agreement to take it out. Mr B says that he did not need the PPI and 
First direct say Mr B took out the credit card via a postal application, and its provided a copy 
of this application form. Looking at it I can see that Mr B has completed his details and there 
is a section titled: Visa Cardholder Repayment Protector and within this there is a statement 
about the PPI. This is followed by two options  one confirming that you require cover which 
reads If you require cover please tick here and another which states: If you do not require 
cover please tick here. Mr B has placed a tick in the box next to statement confirming that 
he wanted the cover. If Mr B did not want the cover, I wouldve expected him to indicate this 
on the form. And as this was a postal application the form was completed independently by 
Mr B without any involvement from a first direct representative. 
So looking at this form, I think first direct made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although given how long ago this took place I can 
understand why he cant remember this.
I dont think first direct recommended the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it
was right for him.
Its possible the information first direct gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr B hasnt provided details of his employee benefits. But regardless of his employee 
benefits the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr B couldnt work due to illness 
and this wouldve been paid alongside his employer benefits. And if Mr B had lost his job, 
this policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months. So I think he would have valued the 
extra security the policy gave him if things went wrong.
Mr B has also referred to the savings he had at the time, but these were earmarked for other 
uses. So the PPI wouldve allowed Mr B to keep these savings intact. 
So it looks like the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks
like the PPI was affordable. And as the premium was paid monthly Mr B couldve cancelled 
the PPI at any time if it no longer met his needs. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr B off taking out the cover.
Which means first direct doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But first 
direct has agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
First direct got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because first direct didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, first direct has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, including what he has said about the 
widespread mis-selling of PPI.  However, we assess every case at this service on an 
individual basis. I understand Mr B feels strongly about his case so my decision will come as 
a disappointment. But for the reasons explained above, I dont think first direct needs to do 
anything more to resolve his complaint. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct does have to pay back to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I 
understand it has already paid some of the commission and profit share to Mr B so I dont 
think it needs to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman