DRN-4342263
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with her claim.
What happened
Mrs L has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Aviva.
Mrs L arranged to have treatment abroad and paid privately for her procedure. She asked 
Aviva if any check-ups would be covered under the policy. 
Aviva authorised the check-up. But it told Mrs L the hospital she wanted to use wasnt 
available within the network and arranged an appointment at a different hospital. Aviva 
apologised for the error and offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Following Mrs Ls appointment, her consultant said she needed a further test but the 
equipment wasnt available at the hospital. So her consultant wrote a letter to support a 
claim for a further test which was sent to Aviva. 
Aviva reviewed the letter and said that the original surgery Mrs L had wasnt covered under 
the terms of the policy and so no further tests would be covered. Mrs L complained and 
unhappy with Avivas response, referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed 
and in summary, has made the following comments:
Aviva did not follow their own procedures and she was never asked for a GP letter. 
The procedures for cataract surgery and replacement lens surgery are exactly the 
same  it is being suggested that Mrs L misled Aviva about the surgery. 
Replacing the lens was to eliminate the risk of cataracts developing or worsening. 
Aviva should never have authorised the appointment in the first place without 
checking more thoroughly.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy has the following exclusion and says benefits will not be available for 
treatment: of myopia or hyperopia, such as laser eyesight correction surgery.
Aviva declined further tests and said there was no cover for refractive or corrective 
vision surgery and in a letter dated February 2023, her consultant had confirmed that 
Mrs L had had refractive treatment with multifocal lenses implanted and the lenses 
that were used were the cause of her symptoms.
Aviva accepts it initially gave Mrs L incorrect advice when she first called and this 
advice was corrected and she was told which hospital she could use. 
Once Aviva became aware that the original surgery abroad was ineligible treatment, 
any further check ups were excluded under the terms of the policy.
I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably. It acted and provided authorisation based 
on the information it had available. I dont think Mrs L deliberately misled Aviva, but 
as it didnt have the full information, I dont think it is responsible for providing cover 
and later declining any further check ups based on the timeline of events. 
Mrs L says Aviva never should have authorised check ups to begin with but it acted 
based on the information it had which I think was reasonable in the circumstances. 
The initial check up was covered so Mrs L benefitted from this. The further test 
wasnt authorised as it is excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy. So I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman