DRN-1696616
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way Money Management Team Limited (Money Management) 
represented her, when complaining about mis-sold lending. 
What happened
Mrs H appointed Money Management to represent her, in respect of mis-sold pay day loans. 
She explained she was happy with the way it handled the majority of her claims. But, she 
was concerned with the way it had handled her claim with one particular lender.
Mrs H said she had to contact Money Management a number of times, for updates on the 
progress of her claim. And, she said that once her claim had been successful, she had 
asked Money Management to chase up when she would receive the funds in her account. 
She noted it didnt do this for a number of weeks. Because of this it wasnt realised the 
settlement form for her claim had gone to the incorrect address, and this delayed her 
payment.
Because Mrs H felt Money Management hadnt handled the claim correctly, she didnt feel 
the full fee payable to it was due. She said it had acted as agreed in this case.
Money Management noted it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it moved Mrs Hs claim 
forward when necessarily, and it hadnt caused any delays with the settlement of the claim. 
So, it said it wasnt going to reduce the fee payable under the terms of agreement signed 
when it was appointed to represent Mrs H. 
Because Mrs H didnt feel this was fair she referred her complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (A Financial Ombudsman Service) for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Money Management 
hadnt delayed Mrs Hs claim throughout the process. It had liaised with relevant third 
parties, such as this service, when it needed to, and updated Mrs H when this was needed. 
Our investigator said additional updates wouldnt have been necessary, as at other points 
during the claim there was no further updated to provide.
Mrs H didnt agree. She reiterated she had to call Money Management a number of times. 
And this had been stressful. Mrs H also said if Money Management had chased the refund 
due in her account when she asked, she would have received it sooner.
Because Mrs H remained unhappy, her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Ive reviewed the letter of authority Mrs H signed when she instructed Money Management 
to represent her with mis-sold payday loan claims. This document confirms Mrs H had read 
the fee agreement with Money Management. So, Im satisfied Mrs H was aware there was a 
fee to pay should a claim be successful. 
Mrs Hs claim was successful in this case, following work Money Management did to 
represent her. So, under the terms of the agreement, the fee would be due. Given this, Im 
not requiring Money Management to reduce its fee  this is payable. 
But, Mrs H has said she feels her claim wasnt handled by Money Management as well as it 
could have been. And this led to her needing to make a large amount of calls to chase the 
matter up  including after her mis-sale claim had been successful. 
So, Ive thought about whether Money Management handled the claim reasonably or not. 
And whether compensation should be paid to Mrs H as a result.
Having considered this, I think Money Management acted fairly in the way it handled the 
claim. I dont think it did anything wrong. So, it follows that I dont require Money 
Management to pay Mrs H any compensation.
I say this because Ive reviewed the notes from Money Managements file, noting what 
action was taken on the claim. And I can see Money Management was moving the matter 
forward as I wouldve expected it to. It contacted the relevant lender to raise Mrs Hs 
concerns about mis-sale, and following the final response letter the lender provided it 
contacted Mrs H to check whether she wanted to refer the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to review.
Money Management then did refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
promptly. And I can see it was regularly contacting the service, so as to understand the 
current position of the complaint, and ensure it was moved forward. 
Im also satisfied Money Management was prompt with providing Mrs H with updates when 
there was anything substantive to tell her. For example when a settlement offer had been 
made to her. It received the communication of the offer, and confirmed Mrs Hs acceptance 
the next day. As I can see it progressed Mrs Hs claim when needed I dont think Money 
Management did anything wrong it how it handled Mrs Hs claim. 
Mrs H has said that after she accepted the settlement offer in respect of her complaint, there 
was a delay in her receiving the funds. She had accepted the offer at the beginning of 
August 2019, and noted it was not received by her until mid-September 2019. 
Mrs H has explained that during this time she was contacting Money Management regularly 
to ask it for an update on the complaint. And that she wanted it to contact the lender to see 
when the settlement was being sent to her account. Mrs H said this wasnt done, and if it had 
been she couldve received payment quicker.
I dont know how many calls Mrs H made to Money Management in August 2019. I havent 
seen any records of this. But Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs H says about making calls to 
Money Management during this time, chasing the settlement she was awaiting. So, Ive 
needed to think about whether Money Management should reasonably have done anything 
differently to chase the settlement at this stage of the complaint. And I dont think it needed 
to.
Money Management confirmed Mrs Hs acceptance on the settlement offer made in the first 
week of August 2019. And it received confirmation that this acceptance had been communicated to the lender a few days later. So, at this stage I think it was reasonable for 
Money Management to allow some time for this to be actioned by the lender. 
In the last week of August, when Mrs H hadnt received the settlement agreed, it did chase 
the matter directly with the lender, and with the Financial Ombudsman Service. And it 
continued to do this regularly until it had confirmation Mrs H had been sent the money. Given 
its regular chasing I dont think there is anything additional Money Management could have 
done to speed the matter up for Mrs H. It was reliant on actions of other parties too. So, I 
dont recommend it do anything more, or compensate Mrs H.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Money Management Team Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman