DRN-2059215
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc failed properly to change his address details when 
he moved house. Bank of Scotland trades in this case under its Halifax brand. 
What happened
Mr B banks with Lloyds Bank, as well as with Halifax. Both are part of the Lloyds Banking 
Group, and businesses within the group share information. 
In November 2019 Mr B moved house. He went to a branch of Lloyds and provided his new 
details. Because he was moving into a newly-built property, those details had to be input 
manually, but Mr B was satisfied that the necessary changes had been made.
A little later Mr B received a letter from Halifax, correctly addressed, acknowledging the 
change. However, when Mr B checked his Halifax mobile banking app, he noticed that the 
postcode and district were wrong - although the house number and street name were 
correct. 
Mr B also had an ongoing complaint with Halifax about payment protection insurance and 
received letters about that sent to his previous address. They reached him, but only because 
he'd arranged for his post to be redirected. 
When Mr B complained to Halifax, it acknowledged that it hadn't handled the change of 
address as well as it should have done. It arranged for £100 to be credited to his account 
and wrote to say the complaint had been resolved. 
Mr B didn't think the complaint had been resolved, however, or at least not to his 
satisfaction. He referred it to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
took the view however that Halifax had done enough to resolve matters. Mr B didn't agree 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same view as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.  
As I've indicated, Lloyds Bank and Halifax are part of the same banking group. However, 
because they operate under separate banking licences, it was necessary for Mr B to bring 
separate complaints about them - even though those complaints arise from the same set of 
facts. 
I note too that Mr B received standard communications sent to his online account but which 
included his previous address. As the investigator noted, they would have been prepared 
several weeks in advance; as they were sent by secure online messaging, there was no real 
risk that they would be physically delivered to the wrong address. It does appear however that one letter of Mr B's new postcode was wrongly copied within the 
banking group's system and that some parts of the system weren't updated as promptly as 
they might have been. I can understand that this would have been both frustrating and 
worrying for Mr B. Against that, however, it doesn't appear that any communications were 
delivered to anyone else - either because Mr B's post had been redirected or because it was 
delivered by reference to his house number and street, rather than by postcode. 
In the circumstances, I believe that the compensation Halifax has paid to resolve this matter 
is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Bank of Scotland plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr B's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman