DRN-2474194
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) wouldnt cover a repair 
under his home emergency insurance policy and that work it had previously done hadnt 
been done properly.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been set out by our 
investigator in his view. Ill therefore only provide a brief summary.
Mr R has a Home Emergency Assist insurance policy. The insurer is RSA. (Our investigator 
had originally incorrectly referred a different insurer). In early May 2020, Mr Rs boiler 
developed a fault. An initial claim against RSA on 5 May was rejected on the ground that his 
policy only covered emergency situations, and as he was still able to access heating and hot 
water, RSA didnt consider that the problem was one covered by his policy.
On 12 May, Mr R called to report another fault and this one was accepted by RSA. An 
engineer attended on 13 May but as parts needed to be replaced, and had to be ordered, 
the repair couldnt be completed until 20 May.
On 24 May, Mr R called RSA again as he no longer had heating or hot water. RSAs 
engineer found that there was a leak from the filling loop cap. This small leak was causing a 
drop in pressure. RSAs engineer replaced the cap and showed Mr R how to re-pressurise 
the system, and left the system in working order with no leak visible.
The engineers notes show that Mr R was advised that he should replace the filling loop or 
the problem was likely to reoccur. Mr R was also advised by RSA in a telephone 
conversation on 25 May (that I have listened to) that he should replace the filling loop and 
that hed need to arrange for this to be done privately.
On 10 June Mr R contacted RSA again to advise it that his heating and hot water were again 
not working, but RSA said it wouldnt attend as Mr R hadnt followed its recommendation that 
he replace the filling loop. It said that the repair its engineer had done on 24 May had lasted 
at least two weeks, which it considered was a reasonable amount of time in which to have a 
permanent repair completed. It maintains that it has acted reasonably and in accordance 
with the terms of Mr Rs policy. It has relied on the following terms within Mr Rs policy:
DUE CARE
You must take due care to maintain the home and its equipment in good order and 
take all necessary precautions to prevent loss, damage or the unnecessary accrual of 
costs.
 
Where a repair has been carried out, the onus will be upon you to carry out repairs or 
work to permanently resolve the reason for the emergency occurring. Should you fail 
to carry out the permanent repair a contractor will not be appointed to undertake any 
further repairs. (my emphasis underlined).
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
We shall not be liable for costs arising from or in connection with:
22. General maintenance work or any system that has not been regularly maintained. 
The engineer when dealing with your system may complete a repair but diagnose that 
additional maintenance work is required to your boiler and/or other system in order to 
prevent a future breakdown. As this maintenance work is not covered under this policy 
it is your responsibility to have it completed. (my emphasis underlined).
Based on the information available, it said it was satisfied that the decision not to support Mr 
Rs claim further was in line with Mr Rs policy cover. It has offered Mr R £30 compensation 
for the short delay in dealing with the repair it completed on 20 May because parts needed to 
be ordered.
Mr R argues that RSA shouldve done the work properly and had it done so his loss of 
pressure would not be happening. Hes unhappy that RSA said that it was his problem to 
complete the work needed to get the boiler to function properly and that it wouldnt send 
another engineer to fix it.
As he wasnt satisfied with RSAs response to his complaint, Mr R brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that RSA had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr R wasnt happy with our investigators view and has asked that his complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute between Mr R and RSA as to the factual background 
to this complaint other than that Mr R says he didnt know that RSA had advised that the 
filling loop be replaced. But having seen the engineers report and having listened to the 
telephone conversation between Mr R and RSAs agent, Im satisfied that Mr R was told that 
he should undertake this work as soon as possible, and that hed need to arrange to have 
this work undertaken by others, and he hadnt done this.
Ive looked at the terms of Mr Rs policy, as this is what sets out the things which RSA 
agrees to do, and what its not responsible for. The staring point is the nature of the policy, 
which is a policy to cover home emergencies. The relevant provision states:
We will provide assistance in an emergency following the complete breakdown of the
domestic boiler and/or central heating system which results in the complete loss
of heating and/or hot water.
I therefore consider that RSA has acted reasonably in declining Mr Rs initial claim on 4 May 
as he was still able to receive heating and hot water.
Turning to RSAs declining to repair Mr Rs boiler following his call on 10 June, Ive quoted 
above two sections which RSA relies upon when it says that it isnt required to provide 
assistance in these circumstances. To these I could add a third, a further General Exclusion 
which states:
We shall not be liable for costs arising from or in connection with:14. Circumstances which are not sudden and unforeseen.
RSA undertook a temporary repair in line with the policy wording and advised Mr R that hed 
need to replace his filling loop because this was leaking or else his boiler would continue to 
suffer problems with loss of pressure. I consider that it was foreseeable that until this was 
done, pressure problems would keep occurring.
I consider that the terms of Mr Rs policy are clear and that RSA has not acted unreasonably 
in declining Mr Rs claims given the clear policy wording that excludes claims in these 
circumstances. I also consider that its offer of £30 is reasonable compensation for the short 
delay in RSA addressing Mr Rs accepted claim of 12 May because parts needed to be 
sourced and fitted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman