DRN-2837244
The complaint
On behalf of S, Mr C complains about delays by HSBC UK Bank Plc when opening a 
business current account. 
What happened
On behalf of S, its director Mr C applied for a business bank account in June 2020. Mr C has 
explained that he completed the process required and toward the end of June 2020 received 
a message to say S account was nearly ready to open. However, HSBC has explained that 
before it could open S new account it needed to complete further checks. 
Mr C regularly chased HSBC for updates and complained about the delays in opening the 
business account. HSBC sent Mr C a final response at the beginning of August 2020 and 
paid him £100 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in opening S account.
In September 2020 Mr C discussed the account with HSBC and was advised that, because 
of the time that had passed, it needed to complete another soft credit search. 
HSBC issued several further responses to S complaint and offered an additional £100 to 
apologise for the delay. But HSBC explained it was operating in highly unusual conditions 
caused by the pandemic which had impacted its processing times and staffing. 
HSBC opened the business account in November 2020. Mr C referred S complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought HSBC had dealt with the 
complaint fairly and that its offer of £200 was reasonable. Mr C asked to appeal and said it 
was only after he chased the application it was processed. Mr C also said it was wrong for 
HSBC to divert staff from business account opening to deal with other products. Mr C said 
HSBC had failed to treat him fairly, in line with the regulations. 
As Mr C asked to appeal S complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure the parties that Ive taken everything thats been said and sent to us into 
account. If I dont address every point thats been made its not because I havent considered 
it. In this decision Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. I dont need to comment 
on every single argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
The rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this  and it reflects the 
informal nature of our dispute resolution service which is a free alternative to the courts.
All parties agree that S account took longer than it should have to open. Mr C applied on S 
behalf in June 2020 and it took a further five months before the account was opened. I agree 
that it took too long and can understand why Mr C feels HSBC made errors. But, I have to be 
fair to both parties. And whilst I agree there was a delay, I have to balance that against the 
challenging conditions HSBC has operated in since the pandemic began. 
Mr C has said that HSBC shouldnt have taken staff away from processing business account 
applications to deal with other products. But we cant tell a business how to operate or how 
to deploy its staff. I think its reasonable to note that one of the products HSBC said it had to 
process new applications for were bounce back loans, introduced by the government to 
assist some businesses during the pandemic. These loans werent something HSBC 
previously offered and the introduction meant it had to use existing staff to process 
applications. 
HSBC has also told us it also had an unexpected increase in the number of businesses 
applying for a new account. I also think its reasonable to say that HSBC had to adapt the 
way it worked during the pandemic and that, as a result of factors that were outside of its 
control, there were inevitable delays. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent found S 
account application was delayed as a result of errors or avoidable delays by HSBC. 
I understand Mr C feels it was only after he chased progress that the application was 
approved. But I havent found that to be the case. The file notes Ive seen shows the 
application was subject to further checks and approved only after those checks were 
completed. The checks were completed once HSBC worked through the applications that 
were received before S. 
So whilst I agree there were delays, for the reasons Ive given above, I havent found 
evidence that shows they were caused because HSBC made errors or acted unfairly. Im 
satisfied the delay in processing S application was due to the difficult and unusual 
environment HSBC was operating under. 
In order to process the application HSBC had to complete a second credit search. But the 
credit search was soft which means it isnt visible to other businesses. So there was no 
impact to Mr C by the requirement for HSBC to complete a second credit search in this case. 
Mr C has told us the delay meant he had to use his personal account which was 
inconvenient and could lead to additional costs with his accountant. I accept that Mr C had to 
use another account and understand why this was inconvenient. But as I havent found 
evidence of an error or unfair delays by HSBC I dont agree it would be fair to tell it to cover 
additional costs S may have incurred. 
HSBC has paid £100 and offered a further £100 to resolve this complaint. Whilst I 
understand Mr C feels HSBC failed to act in line with the regulations, requiring it to treat 
customers fairly, I havent found that to be the case. I agree there was a reasonable level of 
inconvenience caused to Mr C acting as S director, but Im satisfied the total compensation 
offered of £200 fairly reflects the impact of what happened. As a result, Im not telling HSBC 
to increase the award or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
offered a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman