DRN-3311665
Complaint
Miss L says that TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly defaulted her current account.
Background
Two of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ls complaint. The first adjudicator thought it was 
unfair that TSB recorded a default on Miss Ls credit file in circumstances where she didnt 
know about the debt. The second adjudicator referred TSB to the Information 
Commissioners Offices (ICO) Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and 
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies and also thought the complaint should be upheld. 
TSB didnt agree and although it didnt ask for an ombudsmans decision as the parties were 
not in agreement and it is the usual next step in our process, the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Miss L owed an outstanding amount on her overdraft by the time she 
stopped using the account in late 2018. The parties (as well as the first adjudicator) have 
very much focused on whether Miss L received notifications of this growing debt and the 
consequences of non-payment. That said, TSB could only send correspondence to the 
address details that it held for Miss L. And Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that Miss L did update her details with TSB in 2017. 
So Im satisfied that TSB didnt do anything wrong or that it acted unfairly when it sent         
the correspondence in question to the address it did.
However, our adjudicator referred TSB to the Information Commissioners Offices Principles 
for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies (the 
principles). And on page 7 of this principles, the ICO lists examples of circumstances where 
a lender should not file a default against a consumer. One of the examples listed is where If 
the amount outstanding is solely made up of fees or charges. And Ive thought about TSBs 
actions in defaulting Miss Ls account in light of this principle. 
The amount of returned direct debits on Miss Ls statements in November 2018 and 
December 2018 make it difficult to discern the precise order of payments on the account and 
what exactly caused Miss Ls account to go overdrawn. But TSBs response to the first 
adjudicators assessment appears to accept that Miss Ls final credit to her account was to 
cover a direct debit due and didnt take into account charges that had, or were about to be, 
debited from her account. And this is what led to her account being £16.73 overdrawn. So, it 
seems to me that Miss Ls initial overdrawn balance may well have been solely made up of 
fees and charges.
But even if Im wrong on this, it isnt in dispute that this overdrawn balance of £16.73 grew to 
an amount of £469.21 by the time TSB sent its final demand for payment to Miss L in          
June 2019. Given all parties appear to accept that Miss L had no further spend on her 
account, this means that Miss Ls initial debt of £16.73 had over £450 worth of fees and 
charges added to it before TSB decided to make a final demand for payment of the debt.
The final amount TSB demanded from Miss L was approaching 30 times the amount of her 
initial overdrawn balance. So even though fees may not have made up the initial debt (Im 
not necessarily persuaded by this as they almost certainly caused it) they were certainly 
what made up the overwhelming majority of (approaching 97%) the amount defaulted. In my 
view, the example Ive referred to in the principles was introduced to ensure that recording a 
default was a proportionate response to a borrower having failed to repay a debt in line with 
the terms of an agreement, rather than a far more disproportionate response to a customer 
failing to pay a debt made up of escalating fees and charges, where the customer was lent 
little to no funds.
In this case, even if Miss L debt wasnt entirely made up of fees and charges, for the sake of 
completeness Id add Im not making that finding here, its, in any event, clear that fees and 
charges were the direct cause of Miss Ls outstanding balance and the default recorded on 
her credit file  after all, little to none of the £469.21 was made up of funds which TSB 
actually lent to Miss L. And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that TSBs actions in 
registering a default on Miss Ls credit file ran contrary to the guidance set out in the 
principles. 
As this is the case, I find that TSB unfairly recorded a default on Miss Ls credit file and that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. So, TSB needs to put things right. 
What TSB needs to do to put things right for Miss L
As TSB shouldnt have recorded a default on Miss Ls credit file because of the fees and 
charges that it added, Im satisfied that it should now remove all the fees and charges in 
question and remove this default. This means that TSB should remove the default from    
Miss Ls credit file once Miss L pays the initial £16.73 she owed at the time she appears to 
have abandoned the account.
Id normally consider making an award for any distress and inconvenience caused by a 
respondent firm unfairly registering a default on a customers credit file. However, I do think 
that this matter may well have been resolved much sooner and without a default being 
recorded, had Miss L updated her correspondence details with TSB. 
I know Miss L says she did but Ive already concluded that shes not provided me with 
enough to make that finding here. And Im also not persuaded by her arguments on why she 
didnt check her online banking when prompted to either. So, Im satisfied Miss Ls actions 
(or her inaction) significantly contributed to any distress and inconvenience she may have 
experienced. And Im satisfied that no further award is warranted here.
  
Therefore, having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of Miss Ls complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reducing Miss Ls outstanding balance back down to £16.73. And Once Miss L 
pays the £16.73, TSB should remove the default it recorded on her credit file.TSB may have sold the outstanding balance on Miss Ls account to third-party debt 
purchaser. If it has, it will need to either buy the account back from the third-party concerned 
and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments, or pay Miss L an amount  such that she can settle the debt with 
the third-party on the appropriate terms - to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. TSB Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman