DRN-3593496
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by Unum Ltd to turn down his income protection 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr G is covered under his employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is 
to initially provide a benefit in the event he cant work in his occupation due to illness or 
injury. The scheme has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In April 2019, Mr G suffered an injury when some glass splinters entered his eye. He 
returned to work after nine days - though he continued to experience irritation in his eye. 
In February 2020, Mr G experienced severe irritation in his eye. After notifying his employer 
about this, his medical certificate was suspended and so he stopped work in March 2020. 
Mr G submitted a claim to Unum.
Unum declined the claim and said Mr G hadnt met the scheme definition of incapacity. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Unums claim 
decision had been reasonable. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme pays benefit in the event of incapacity. The scheme terms explain a member is 
incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties of their 
occupation due to illness or injury. This would need to be the case throughout the 26-week 
deferred period. 
Mr G requires a medical certificate to do his role which is only issued when he meets certain 
medical standards. His medical certificate was suspended due to his eye injury.
The scheme terms do say that where a member is required to hold a licence or certificate 
which is issued only when the member meets required medical standards, then a different 
definition of incapacity applies. However, the policy schedule confirms that, for Mr Gs role, 
this part of the wording is excluded. It is therefore the case that the above definition of 
incapacity would need to be met in order for me to require Unum to pay the claim. 
The fact that Mr G had his medical certificate suspended is not enough to show that he 
meets the definition of incapacity. Thats because the criteria for the medical certificate is 
different to the income protection scheme. Mr G acknowledges that his fitness for the 
medical certificate is very specific and strict, because there is the safety of other people to 
take into account. For a claim to be paid under the income protection scheme, Mr G needs 
to show that he cant do the material and substantial duties of his role. 
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence.
In February 2020 (before stopping work), Mr G was examined by Mr A (consultant 
ophthalmic surgeon). Mr A said the diagnoses were papillary conjunctivitis and left ocular 
trauma. There were no issues with Mr Gs visual acuity. Mr A said the examination revealed 
papillary changes in both eyes, more so on the right. There was temporal injection in Mr Gs 
left eye which was significant, though his eyes were otherwise healthy. Mr A asked Mr G to 
use eye drops for conjunctivitis in both eyes, and eye drops to treat inflammation in the left 
eye.
In March 2020, Mr G had a phone consultation with Mr A. It was noted that he was still 
having significant problems, especially when driving and navigating. Mr A said the drops that 
Mr G had been taking (to reduce inflammation) should be stopped as they had had little 
effect. Mr A said that Mr G had previously had ultrasounds and an MRI scan, and that 
depending on these, he thought it would be a good idea to do a scan of the eye to see if 
there was any residual debris. 
In April 2020, Mr G had a phone consultation with Dr M (specialist in occupational medicine). 
Dr M advised Mr G to remain off work due to the nature and severity of his symptoms, and 
their potential to affect his job.
Then in August 2020, Mr G had an ultrasound. There was a cluster of abnormal echoes, and 
it was thought this could be a foreign body, or scar tissue. Mr A referred Mr G to another 
specialist (Ms R) for her opinion. Mr A explained that Mr G had trauma to the eye some time 
ago, but experienced lateral conjunctivitis pain and irritation. 
A few months after the deferred period ended, in November 2020, Mr G saw Dr D. A report 
stated that he had minor pain in the left eye, and that since his injury, his sight was 
sometimes defocused, and the left eye painful and irritated. Dr D said that due to Mr Gs 
occupation, it was likely that irritation of the left eye may negatively influence the function of 
that role. 
Also in November 2020, Mr G saw Dr V (medical ophthalmologist). Dr V said that Mr G had 
experienced good vision pre and post incident. She said that since the incident Mr G had 
been aware of ongoing sensation and occasional sharp pain, especially in the mornings on 
awakening and sometimes when driving. She confirmed that clinically no foreign body had 
been evidenced. Dr V said that following the incident, Mr G had further acute follow-up visits. 
Though 20 months later, he was still suffering from recurrent corneal erosions and acute 
conjunctivitis causing intermittent eye irritation. Dr V thought that the intensity and the 
unpredictability of Mr Gs symptoms prevented him from doing his role.
Later evidence from Ms R (consultant ophthalmic surgeon) explained that after Mr G 
returned to work following his injury, he had been persistently bothered by foreign body 
sensation in his eye that could feel like a grain of sand. 
Overall, I think Unums decision to turn down Mr Gs claim was reasonable.
 
I appreciate that some of Mr Gs treating doctors have explained why they thought the 
irritation in his eye would impact his ability to do his role. However, the fact remains that 
Mr G was able to do his role for nearly a year whilst experiencing his symptoms. Although I understand there was an incident in February 2020 where Mr G says he experienced severe 
irritation in his eye, the medical evidence doesnt indicate that Mr Gs eye irritation became 
worse following the initial injury. Nor does it show that Mr Gs eye irritation was of such 
severity throughout the 26-week deferred period that it restricted his ability to use his eye 
and therefore carry out his role.
I do have sympathy for Mr G, because he wasnt able to work due to the suspension of his 
medical certificate. But that alone doesnt mean that he meets the definition of incapacity 
under the income protection scheme. On balance, I dont think Mr G has shown that his 
symptoms prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his role 
throughout the deferred period. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman