DRN-4132015
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Nationwide Building Society applied late payment charges to her credit 
card account. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs T raised a complaint with Nationwide as shed incurred a late payment 
charge on her credit card account. Nationwide explained that this was due to Mrs T making a 
payment prior to the monthly statement being produced. As a resolution to this complaint, 
Nationwide agreed to change the date Mrs Ts statement was produced to the 15th of each 
month as Mrs Ts preference was to make the monthly payment on the 16th of the month. 
Mrs T raised a further complaint when Nationwide didnt process the above resolution 
correctly and a further late payment fee was charged. Nationwide acknowledged their error 
and to resolve the issue refunded that late payment fee and paid £50 compensation in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused. This was confirmed in a final response letter dated 
26 September 2022.
Mrs T contacted Nationwide again when she received another late payment charge in 
December 2022. Following a review of Mrs Ts account, Nationwide explained that as per 
the initial final response letter, her statement date was 15th monthly. So, the payment she 
made on 15 November 2022 had been made too soon. And as another payment hadnt been 
made during the next statement period this incurred a further late payment charge.   
Mrs T said that Nationwide had confirmed  during a call in October 2022, that she could 
make a payment on the 15th of the month, and this would cover the payment due for the 
statement produced on the same day. But Nationwide couldnt find any evidence that Mrs T 
was given this information and it didnt agree to refund that late payment charge.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mrs T contacted our service. One of our investigators 
looked into it, but he didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that part of the resolution of the initial 
complaint was that Mrs T needed to make her payments on 16th of the month. But he was 
satisfied that because Mrs T had made her payment on 15th of the month  the date the 
statement date was changed to, she had paid too early for the payment to register within that 
billing period. 
Mrs T didnt agree. She added that she had since contacted Nationwide to set up a direct 
debit to ensure minimum payments were made on time. But she said this hadnt been done 
as another late payment fee was taken in January 2023. And she asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the complaint was passed to me to consider, and I 
issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 15 May 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This includes the additional information 
we asked both parties to provide in relation to the part of the complaint that was referred to 
us after our investigator had issued his findings.
Ive seen in correspondence sent to Mrs T that in October 2022 her statement date would be 
changed to 15th of each month allowing her to make payments on 16th of the month as this 
was her preferred payment date. So, Im satisfied that Mrs T would have known the earliest 
she could make her payment was 16th of the month. 
Nationwide has acknowledged and taken responsibility for the error it subsequently made in 
changing the statement date. It offered Mrs T £50 compensation and refunded the late 
payment fee in recognition of the inconvenience caused. I find this is fair as it put Mrs Ts 
account back in the position it would have been in had the charge not been applied and 
adequately compensated her for the inconvenience caused. So, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to pay any further compensation regarding this error.
Ive gone on to consider the further late payment charges Mrs T incurred. And Ive set out 
below the statement dates, payment due dates and payment received dates from                          
October 2022, and the charges incurred after Mrs T asked for the statement date to be 
changed. 
Statement date Payment due 
datePayment 
requiredPayment(s) 
receivedLate payment fee 
charged
15/10/22  09/11/22 £25 17/10/22 & 
15/11/20220
15/11/22 10/12/22 £25 15/12/22 £12
24/12/22 18/01/23 £34.13 19/01/23 £12
And I can see that things worked as they should in relation to the October 2022 statement. It 
was produced on 15th as agreed and Mrs T paid on 17th  a day later than her preferred date 
but well before the due date, so a late payment fee wasnt applied.
But Mrs T made another payment on 15 November 2022  the date her next statement was 
due to be produced. This meant that this payment fell into the previous statement cycle. So, 
when the statement was issued on 15 November, Mrs T needed to make another payment 
by 10 December 2022, but she didnt do so until 15 December 2022. 
I do appreciate that Mrs T made the payment on 15 November 2022 in the belief she was 
making the payment due on her November statement. But as mentioned above, Im satisfied 
she should have reasonably known her statement would be produced on 15 November and 
a payment shouldnt have been made until the next day at the earliest. As Mrs T didnt make 
a payment during the November statement cycle, I dont find that Nationwide did anything 
wrong when it charged a late payment fee. 
Its not clear to me why the statement date subsequently changed to 24 December 2022. But 
this statement clearly stated that the payment due date was 18 January 2023. Had Mrs T 
made the payment on her preferred payment date of the 16th, the payment would have been 
made on time. But on this occasion, it wasnt received until 19 January 2023, so a further 
late payment fee was charged.
Ive thought about what Mrs T has said about setting up a direct debit in January 2023. And 
that she says she was told that the January monthly payment would be covered by the newly set up direct debit. Weve asked Nationwide about this and there is no dispute that Mrs T 
called to request a direct debit to be set up on 10 January 2023. 
But the letter that confirmed this arrangement says in bold you should continue to make 
manual payments until you see a message on your statement confirming that your next 
payment will be taken by direct debit. And it wasnt until Mrs Ts statement dated                              
24 January 2023 that it says, Your Direct Debit of £33.90, less any interim payments will be 
collected on February 18, 2023.
So even if Nationwide did say that Januarys payment would be covered by the newly set up 
direct debit in a telephone call, Nationwides subsequent letter makes it clear that a manual 
payment needed to be made until the statement reflected that a direct debit was in place. 
So, I think Mrs T should reasonably have known that a manual payment was required by     
18 January 2023, but the payment wasnt received until 19 January 2023  a day late. So, 
Im not persuaded that Nationwide did anything wrong when it applied this late payment 
charge.
I understand that the direct debit has since successfully collected Mrs Ts payments on the 
correct date. But as Ive found that Mrs T made payments late as set out above, I dont 
intend to ask Nationwide to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide agreed with my provisional decision. But Mrs T didnt. She said: Nationwide had 
given her incorrect and contradictory information, in some months she had paid twice, the 
direct debit had been set up in good faith and she made a payment as soon as she noticed 
the direct debit had not been claimed and, she hadnt received the final response to the 
second complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion set out in my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why.
I know Mrs T thinks Nationwide has treated her unfairly as she says she has sometimes 
made two payments in one month. So, I think its important to explain that credit card 
accounts have payment/billing cycles. If Mrs T paid twice during one payment cycle  while 
the second payment would reduce her outstanding balance, that payment isnt treated as 
being the payment due in the next payment cycle. And this is the same for all credit card 
account holders. 
As set out above, Im satisfied that Nationwide made Mrs T aware that her statement date 
had changed to 15th monthly and to ensure her payments were received during the billing 
cycle and that she needed to make her payments no earlier than the next day - but before 
the payment due date. So, I dont find that Nationwide acted unfairly here.
I acknowledge Nationwide made an error when it initially changed the statement date. But it 
refunded the late payment fee this error caused and paid Mrs T £50 compensation which I 
find fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Mrs T in having to follow up this issue again.I also appreciate that Mrs T arranged for her payments to be made by direct debit to avoid 
similar problems happening again. Mrs T asked for a direct debit to be set up on                                     
10 January 2023. But by this time, Ive seen that Mrs Ts statement had already been issued 
and this set out that the next payment was due by 18 January 2023. And Im not persuaded 
that setting up a direct debit on 10 January allowed enough time for the payment due by     
18 January 2023 to be collected that way. So, I find that a manual payment was always 
needed. And as explained in my provisional decision this was explained in the letter 
Nationwide sent Mrs T following her setting up the direct debit. As Mrs T payment was also 
late in January 2023, I dont find that Nationwide did anything wrong when another late 
payment fee was charged.   
 
Mrs T has said she didnt receive a final response from Nationwide about part of her 
complaint. Nationwide has issued two final responses relating to this complaint dated                 
26 September 2022 and 15 December 2022 (copies attached), which I have read and taken 
into consideration. And as I explained in my provisional decision, Mrs T raised the issue of 
the direct debit with us after the investigator had issued his initial findings. A final response 
wasnt issued in relation to this. But we asked Nationwide to respond to us on this issue 
before I issued my provisional decision. So, while accepting that Mrs T may not have 
received a final response from Nationwide on all the issues she raised, I dont find this 
warrants compensation as Mrs T hasnt been prevented from raising all her concerns about 
this matter to this service. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed, Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt 
done any significantly wrong to the extent that a further compensation or refund of fees is 
warranted. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to take any further action in respect of this 
complaint. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman