DRN-1577488
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) didnt investigate 
his data protection concerns properly.
What happened
Mr M is a customer of Tescos insurance business. He requested some call recordings and 
made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) of Tescos information team. The call 
recordings were sent to Mr M on a CD which was poorly encrypted. And the DSAR 
information was emailed to his work email address, but again with very poor password 
protection.
Mr M raised complaints with Tesco about this and followed those up on social media. Hes 
unhappy that Tesco only agreed to look into the detail of his complaints when he said hed 
been in touch with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and theyd said it had to. 
Hes also frustrated that Tesco never undertook a detailed investigation about where his 
data may have ended up and had potentially been compromised. 
To date, Tesco has made two offers of compensation to Mr M. The first was for £100 for the 
potential of a security lapse with the CD and the second, an additional £100, for its failings 
with the DSAR password. Tesco has accepted that it hadnt followed its internal security 
policies and escalated this internally with its security team - which were told has since taken 
action to address this more generally across the business.
Mr M still wasnt happy with Tescos response. Hed like a full audit done of the servers 
through which his personal data may have passed or may now be held, an apology, £900 
compensation and free credit report monitoring for the next two years. Hes however 
concerned that as this all happened over a year ago, a proper investigation may not easily 
still be carried out. Hes told us the whole episode has caused him significant distress and 
anxiety and has taken many hours to deal with.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think that Tesco needed to do 
anything more. Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M has been greatly troubled as a result of Tescos actions. I 
appreciate how upsetting a potential data breach can be for customers and the service 
failings here do require that Tesco compensate Mr M. But Im afraid Mr M will be 
disappointed to hear that I think the £200 offered by Tesco to date is the right amount of 
compensation. Ill explain why.
I appreciate there has been some confusion about what Mr Ms complaint is really about. Im 
sorry that he feels weve added to that. Mr M considers that the £100 compensation offered by Tesco for each security breach is just that. Its for the breach itself and not the effect this 
has had on him or the poor customer service that it provided in investigating the complaints 
and the breaches themselves.
I understand that Mr M is a data security expert and so I completely appreciate why hes so 
upset about Tescos handling of these incidents. Ive looked into what Tescos done and I 
agree with Mr M that things could have been handled better. And I know that he still hasnt 
had the full audit and report about what may have happened to his data to which he feels 
entitled.
Its important for me to note here that although the password security was clearly poor, 
theres no evidence that Mr Ms personal data has in fact been compromised, although there 
of course remains the risk that it couldve been. Tesco has acknowledged that it didnt follow 
its own internal data security policies and it has apologised for this.
I also understand that Tesco has taken action internally to address this more generally so 
that it hopefully doesnt affect any other customers. Whilst I know that provides little comfort 
in Mr Ms case, as our investigator has said, we dont have the power to look into and require 
that Tesco changes its internal data protection systems. Thats a technical piece of work that 
isnt suitable for an informal and impartial dispute resolution service like us.
Tesco has directed Mr M to the ICO which is the appropriate body to look into technical 
concerns like this and it has the powers to require Tesco to take action if required - although 
I note that Tesco says it has already made changes as a result of Mr Ms complaint anyway. 
But if the ICO were to feel that a full audit of where Mr Ms data has ended up is required, 
then that may be something that it can ask Tesco to do. At this service, we look into the 
effect that Tescos actions have had on the customer and award compensation if we think 
its appropriate. We wouldnt generally get involved with requiring technical data security 
investigations, as thats not something that were experts in.
Mr M was clearly very upset about the initial CD breach which was then made worse by the 
DSAR security lapse as well. At this service we deal with many situations involving data 
breaches where customers' data has been lost or stolen and there is a distinct likelihood that 
the data may be misused, or indeed has been. Whilst clearly serious for Mr M, this isnt a 
situation where there has yet been a financial loss. The data on the CD wasnt compromised 
and theres no indication that what was in the DSAR has been decrypted by anyone other 
than Mr M. So, whilst I fully appreciate the worry that Mr M has experienced, I think that the 
compensation offered is a fair and reasonable amount for the way this has made him feel 
and for whats actually happened to date. 
In some cases that we see, customers have to go about changing all of their security 
settings and deal with fraudulent attempts to impersonate them. In those cases we may feel 
that a business should offer additional compensation, and sometimes provide a customer 
with access to credit report monitoring. But Mr M hasnt yet had this problem as a result of 
anything Tesco has done, and hopefully wont. So, I dont think that additional compensation 
or credit report services are required here.
Ive also considered Mr Ms concerns more generally about the way his complaints were 
dealt with by Tesco. I think it has answered his complaints, although I agree this took some 
time. And there does appear to have been some confusion about what more Mr M wanted 
Tesco to do. Its often the case that when correspondence about an incident goes back and 
forth over a period of time, often to a number of different handlers  and here via social 
media as well - there can be mis-understandings about what the customer is unhappy about 
- and what needs to be done to put it right. And thats why businesses often end up saying that theyve issued their final response letter to a complaint and its then appropriate for the 
customer to come to us, or in this case, also to the ICO, so that finality can be achieved.
I appreciate that Mr M thinks that Tesco should have done more here. I cant answer for 
what the ICO may think, if Mr M is to escalate his complaint to them. But as far as Tescos 
handling of this entire incident is concerned, I think that the compensation that it has offered 
to date is sufficient restitution for the mis-understandings that arose here and Tescos failure 
to do everything that Mr M asked.
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already offered Mr M a total of £200 compensation. I 
understand that Mr M has accepted £100 of this. Its my final decision that £200 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset that Mr M has experienced overall. If it 
hasnt already, I require that Tesco Personal Finance PLC pay Mr M the £100 compensation 
that it hasnt already settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman