The complaint
Mr G says that he was mis-sold regular premium mortgage protection insurance (MPPI) by 
The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia. 
What happened
Mr G took out a mortgage with Britannia in September 2003 and. At the same time he was 
sold a regular premium MPPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments if he wasnt working 
due to sickness, an accident or if he lost his job. The policy cost £13.02 each month, 
although it was free for an initial period, and in the event of a successful claim, it wouldve 
paid a monthly benefit of £216.85 for up to 12 months. The policy was cancelled and the 
mortgage was fully redeemed in 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
documentation wouldve made it clear the MPPI was optional and thought the MPPI 
wouldve provided a useful benefit for him.
Mr G disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Britannia had to make it clear to Mr G that he had a choice in taking out the MPPI and that 
he understood it was separate from the mortgage. Mr G hasnt given us much detail about 
why he thinks this wasnt done, but I think that is understandable as both sales took place 
more than 15 years ago. So Ive relied more on the documentation used at the time Mr G 
applied for his mortgage together with what I think is more likely to have happened.
Mr G applied for his mortgage over the phone. Britannia told us the MPPI wouldve been 
discussed at the time and if Mr G wanted to proceed he wouldve been sent application 
paperwork to check over and then sign.
Ive seen a copy of the application form for MPPI that was sent out to Mr G. Its completely 
separate to the mortgage application form and its clear from the heading what it is. So I 
think its likely Mr G wouldve understood he didnt need to take MPPI to get the mortgage. 
And I can see that Mr G signed and dated this paperwork before returning it to Britannia with 
his mortgage paperwork to confirm he wanted to purchase the MPPI policy.
DRN-1147859From what I know of Britannia MPPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. And I 
havent seen anything from this sale to make me think it was any different here. What this 
means is that Britannia didnt recommend MPPI to Mr G, it just gave him information about 
MPPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so he could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if Britannia did give all 
the information as it shouldve done. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference 
because I think Mr G wouldve still have taken the policy if he was given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale: 
He was eligible for the MPPI.
It doesnt look like Mr G wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a
successful claim  he told us he was employed and in good health.
Mr G says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay  even though this was as the
discretion of his employer. And he says he had some savings that he couldve used
to help with his mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. But the MPPI wouldve paid
out on top of any work benefits and covered him for potentially longer if he were
unable to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. And the policy
wouldve allowed him to keep his savings for any other pressing needs that mightve
arisen as such a difficult time. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit
to Mr G in his circumstances especially considering he was taking on a significant
and long term financial commitment and was solely responsible for the mortgage
repayments. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments I think
he wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr G and if he no longer
wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it at any time without penalty.
This means Mr G isnt worse off as a result of any wrongdoing by Britannia.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman