DRN-1645847
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that charges Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (AFS) at the end of this Hire Purchase Agreement were unfair. He would 
like costs refunded.
What happened
Mr M says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with AFS in July 2015. He says he 
decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement in June 2019.
Mr M says he understood he would be liable for any damage outside of fair wear and tear 
when he ended the agreement. He says he got the supplying dealership to inspect his car. 
And says he was advised he would be liable for £100 to refurbish two alloys. On this basis 
he says he went ahead with the VT.
However, Mr M says AFS charged him over £500 to cover the cost of replacing one wheel 
and refurbishing three others..
He says he isn't happy that AFS wont take responsibility for the advice he was given by the 
dealership. He is happy to pay the £100 he was quoted as needed but not any more.
AFS said that charges were applied correctly and according to British Vehicle and Leasing 
and Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines. It said the dealership was a different business. 
It passed Mr M's complaint to them with regard to the advice it had given about only £100 of 
work being needed.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She said that Mr M's contract was with AFS not 
the dealership. She found that Mr M was liable for charges for damage outside of wear and 
tear under the contract he signed. She found the charges were reasonable, and in line with  
BVRLA guidance. And that Mr M had a chance to arrange his own repairs had he wanted to 
do so.
AFS accepted this view but Mr M didn't.  He said the dealership which quoted £100 of repair 
work was needed was the same one he got the car from. He felt it had given him false and 
misleading information. And as the dealership was part of AFS he felt it was reasonable for 
him to rely on what he was told.
Our investigator considered this point but didn't change her view. She explained the 
dealership and AFS were different businesses. So it wasn't fair to hold AFS responsible for 
what the dealership told Mr M.
Mr  didn't accept this further view. He said he accepted the dealership and AFS were 
different businesses but were  part of the same group. He felt it was reasonable to say he 
could rely on the advice given by the dealership. Mr M asked if a call between the dealership and AFS that took place when he asked about 
the VT process could be listened to as he felt that was relevant.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M feels strongly about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as I've reached 
the same conclusion as our investigator.
I know Mr M asked for our investigator to request a copy of a call that took place between 
the dealership and AFS when Mr M was pursuing the VT of his agreement. I haven't asked 
for this call as I didn't feel I needed it to make my decision. I will explain why in my view.
I have seen the Hire Purchase Agreement that Mr M signed.That makes it clear that at the 
end of the agreement he would be liable for any damage in excess of fair wear and tear.
I have also seen the VT pack that AFS sent Mr M on 8 June 2019. This explains the 
inspection and collection process. And includes a lengthy document detailing the charges it 
applies for damage.
I have also seen the letter AFS sent Mr M on 11 June 2019. This also explains the collection 
and inspection process, that AFS use BVRLA guidance to assess damage and the letter 
gave a link to that guidance. The letter also pointed out that Mr M might like to arrange any 
remedial work himself before the car is collected and inspected..
So from those two pieces of correspondence I think AFS made it clear there would be a full 
inspection of the car, how it assessed damage, and that Mr M could chose to have any work 
done himself prior to this inspection.
I appreciate Mr M says the supplying dealership led hm to believe that he would only be 
liable for £100 of damage. I don't think its very helpful that AFS focussed on that being a 
separate business. I can understand why Mr M would feel it would be reasonable for him to 
rely on what the dealership told him. But I think it was naive of Mr M to do this knowing that 
AFS would appoint an agent to do a full inspection. Mr M must have been aware that any 
charges for damage would be assessed by that agent not the supplying dealership.
I chose not to request the phone call Mr M asked me to listen to. That's no disrespect to Mr 
M but I felt any information given in that call could only be a general guide since it was made 
clear to Mr M from the correspondence from AFS that it would appoint an agent to carry out 
a full investigation. Given the written correspondence was so clear I decided it was highly 
unlikely that the phone call, even if it were available to listen to, was unlikely to change my 
mind.
So as AFS made it clear what its process was I don't think it is bound by comments made by 
the dealership.
In terms of the charges themselves I am not going to go into these in detail here. Our 
investigator did that in her view. But I have read the inspection report, seen the photos and 
the relevant BVRLA guidance. From that I agree with our investigator that it was reasonable 
for AFS to charge for the damage that it did.
As I don't feel that AFS has done anything wrong I don't feel I can reasonably ask AFS to reduce the charges down to the £100 Mr M says he expected to pay.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July  2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman