DRN-4162101
The complaint
Mr O has a credit card account with TSB Bank Plc and hes unhappy with how they treated 
him and requests hed made whilst hes had financial difficulties.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr O said he asked TSB for help in arranging a payment plan for his credit card 
account. He said he asked TSB to freeze all interest charges and offered to pay £25 a month 
to reduce the outstanding balance. Mr O said hed a similar arrangement set up for a credit 
card account with another lender. 
Mr O was referred by TSB to their Tailored Support Team (TST). TSB said this referral 
meant the interest on Mr Os account was frozen while they looked at the best options to 
help him through his financial difficulties. Mr O said he provided TSB with details about his 
income and expenditure. But in November 2022, after TSB had referred his situation to a 
panel of senior colleagues, theyd only agreed to freeze the interest on his account for a 
further three months. Mr O said TSB didnt accept his offer of £25 per month instead wanting 
to refer him to a debt collection agency. He said TSBs offer to freeze the interest for three 
months wouldnt ease his indebtedness. And they hadnt considered his vulnerability caused 
by ill health. He complained to TSB.
TSB said theyd considered various ways in which to help Mr O. They said as a responsible 
lender theyd criteria in place to provide the help and support needed for   Mr O based on his 
income and expenditure. And theyd looked to help Mr O to manage his account into order. 
After a review by senior colleagues in November 2022 they told Mr O the interest on his 
account would be frozen for a further three months giving him time to seek debt advice to 
help him set up an affordable payment plan for his credit commitments. TSB said as Mr O 
didnt contact them after the three months his account was reverted to business as usual, 
which meant his account was subject to interest charges.
Mr O wasnt happy with TSBs response he said they hadnt acknowledged his letters and he 
was only asking for the same options as those provided by his other lender. He referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said she could only look at the actions taken by TSB and couldnt consider 
what other lenders had done. She said TSB had acted fairly and reasonably in their actions 
with Mr O.
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand my decision will be a disappointment to Mr O but having done so I dont uphold 
his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr O has set out his account in detail. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach my decision, I mean no discourtesy by this. 
In reaching my decision Ive considered the relevant, law guidance and good practice - the 
Consumer Credit Code of Business (CONC) sourcebook. CONC 7.3 covers the - Treatment 
of customers in default or arrears (including repossessions): lenders, owners and debt 
collectors. 
When Mr O contacted TSB about his financial difficulties, his account wasnt in arrears. But 
Id still expect a lender to respond positively and sympathetically (CONC 7.3.4). So, Ive 
looked carefully at everything thats happened.
Mr O contacted TSB in April 2022, saying he could no longer afford the minimum monthly 
payment. I can see in response TSB referred Mr Os account to their TST which meant the 
interest applied to Mr Os account was frozen whilst they established his financial situation, 
which I think is a reasonable response. I can see that Mr O was given a specific case 
handler, and he was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure. I can also see 
the case handler showed concern for Mr O asking about the impact of his medical condition, 
and his appointments with health practitioners.
In May 2022, Mr O asked TSB to freeze the interest on his account for two years to which 
TSB explained that they could consider Charge Off, which meant Mr Os account would be 
passed into recoveries and the account closed. But the interest would be permanently frozen 
and would allow for Mr O to pay what he could afford to clear the outstanding balance, even 
if this was as little as £1. But this would also mean Mr O would incur a default which would 
be recorded on his credit file for six years. TSB also asked Mr O to complete a form with 
details about his income and expenditure. 
I can see Mr O rejected this option as he didnt want a default placed on his credit file. I can 
see he asked for his account to be reverted to when it was incepted, that being a 0% 
balance transfer, the equivalent of no interest. TSB said 0% balance transfers were 
promotional offers only and that they would look at options for him on receipt of his income 
and expenditure details.
In July 2022, Mr O provided the details of his income and expenditure and offered a payment 
of £25 per month, reiterating the need for any interest to be frozen to allow for his 
repayments to reduce the outstanding balance and his indebtedness.
In response TSB estimated it would take around 48 months for Mr Os proposed payment to 
settle the balance, adding this would still require his account to go to recoveries so that the 
interest would be permanently stopped. Again, explaining the impact on Mr Os credit file. 
TSB acknowledged this was something Mr O had previously rejected, and they advised that 
his account would be reviewed by a panel of senior colleagues.
The outcome of the senior colleague review was that in November 2022 Mr O was advised  
his account would remain with their TST for a further three months, meaning the interest was 
frozen to give Mr O the opportunity to seek debt advice.
I know Mr O wasnt happy with this outcome and has stated he was being referred to a debt 
collection agency, but I can see that TSB were acting in line with CONC 7.3.7A:
A firm may refer the customer to a not-for-profit debt advice body by, for example, providing 
the customer with a copy of the current arrears information sheet under section 86 of the CCA, or with the name and contact details of a not-for-profit debt advice 
body or MoneyHelper; or directly transferring the customers call to a not-for-profit debt 
advice body
Mr O said he wants TSB to provide the same outcome as his other lender. I can see that Mr O 
has said his other lender when they froze the interest, his credit card was deleted and hed 
accepted this meant his credit file was affected. But when Charge Off was offered by TSB he 
rejected it. Mr O said he would maintain the £25 per month payment.
TSB said they didnt get a response after November 2022 to their requests for Mr O to update 
them. So, at the end of the three months in February 2023, Mr Os account was moved from their 
TST back into business as usual.
Mr O has said he didnt receive any update request from TSB, but I can see from their records 
letters dated December 2022 and February 2023. While Mr O has said he didnt receive them the 
letters were addressed to the details Mr O has given to us. So, I cant hold TSB accountable if 
these werent delivered to Mr O.
So having considered the actions taken by TSB in referring Mr O to a specialist team, 
considering Charge Off and in continuing to freeze interest for a defined timeframe while Mr O 
sought debt advice, I think TSB has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mr O has told us that he is still struggling financially. But TSB has said his account is in order and 
not in arrears. I can only suggest Mr O contacts TSB to discuss his current circumstances, and 
as part of that its likely TSB will need up to date income and expenditure information. Id expect 
both sides to have an open and honest dialogue, and for TSB to treat Mr O with forbearance and 
consideration. But also, for Mr O to understand that TSB doesnt have to agree to everything he 
asks for and that any payment arrangement would need to be reported to the credit reference 
agencies. 
I know Mr O will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think TSB has dealt with the matter 
fairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman