DRN-3193816
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited did not pay him enough compensation to 
fairly settle his claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation 
to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr E bought solar panels for his home in July 2015. The purchase was funded by a 16-year 
loan from Shawbrook,1 and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr E into believing that the panels would be self-funding within eight years of the purchase, 
which they werent.
In August 2020, Mr E brought a claim under section 75, in which he was represented by a 
claims management company (the CMC). Shawbrook upheld the claim and offered to pay 
Mr E £2,000 compensation, which would effectively make the panels self-funding within 
approximately 12 years.
Being dissatisfied with that proposal, Mr E brought this complaint to our Service, but our 
adjudicator did not uphold it because he thought that Shawbrooks offer was fair. This was 
because he thought 12 years was a reasonable period over which to make the panels self-
funding, and after that Mr E would not have incurred a financial loss.
The CMC disagreed, and pointed out that the sales documentation had promised that the 
panels would be self-funding after eight years. Since no agreement could be reached, the 
case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Since there is no dispute that there was a misrepresentation by the installer, I will confine 
this decision to the question of how Mr E should be compensated.
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair to require Shawbrook to put Mr E in 
the same financial position he would have been in if the panels had been self-funding after 
1 The terms of the loan were that no interest would be charged if Mr E repaid it all (and also a £70 
option fee) within the first year  which he did  and otherwise the loan, with interest, would be repaid 
in monthly instalments over the next 15 years. Mr E repaid the loan and the fee (£11,660) on 1 July 
2016.
eight years, rather than around twelve years. That is because the sales documentation 
clearly stated that the payback time would be eight years, based on the cash price of the 
panels.
While I recognise that Shawbrooks proposal would indeed mean that Mr E would have 
suffered no financial loss eventually, it would take around 12 years for the income and 
savings from the panels to get him to that point, and that is still roughly four years later than 
the installer told him it would be. During those four additional years, Mr E would still be out of 
pocket, instead of finally starting to make a profit. So I think that eight years is a reasonable 
period in which the make the panels self-funding.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties  I intend to order Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
recalculate the redress in such a way as to make the panels pay for themselves after eight 
years.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr E accepted my provisional findings. Shawbrook did not respond. So there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to recalculate 
the redress in such a way as to make the panels pay for themselves after eight years from 
the point of sale.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman