DRN-1455613
 
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold her a 
personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs E took out the PPI in 2009 at the same time as arranging the loan over the internet. Our 
adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with our adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander didnt advise Mrs E to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
her needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information during her internet 
application for her to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy 
was right for her.
Looking at the information provided by Santander, Im not persuaded that Mrs E was 
given good enough information about the cost of the policy at the point that she decided to 
buy it.
Santander has said that the cost of the PPI couldnt be provided when Mrs E chose to 
take PPI, as it was only calculated once the loan had been approved and the applicable 
interest rate applied. There was an online calculator that an applicant could use which would 
provide an indication of the repayment costs with and without PPI. But an applicant didnt 
have to use this calculator as it wasnt a mandatory part of the application process. So I cant 
safely say that Mrs E would have been aware of how much shed be paying for the PPI when 
she chose to take it out.
Santander says that Mrs E would have been sent a welcome pack which included a 
letter giving more details of the PPI, including information on the cost. However it doesnt 
have a copy of the actual letter that it says was sent to Mrs E. Instead it has provided a 
sample of the sort of letter it says was in use at the time. But even if Mrs E did receive such 
a letter, it was after the point that she had already agreed to take out the policy. So I don't 
think that Mrs E would have taken out the policy if shed been given clearer information 
about the costs, because I dont think shed have considered it to be good value for money, 
given what I know about her circumstances at the time. Therefore, Mrs E has lost out 
because of what Santander did wrong, so it needs to put things right.Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs E in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So Santander should:
- Pay Mrs E the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
- Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mrs E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
- If Santander has already paid Mrs E back some of the money she paid for the PPI 
(in relation to the commission and profit share it received), it can take that off from the 
amount it owes her.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman