DRN-2264852
The complaint
Mr M complains about what happened when a transaction on his credit card with Santander
UK Plc was unexpectedly charged as a cash transaction. He complained about the impact
Santander told him this had on his existing interest free offer.
What happened
Mr M said he used his Santander credit card to make a transaction that he expected to be
treated just like any other, but instead it was put through as a cash transaction. Mr M said
that wasnt his fault, and there was no way he couldve known this would happen. But
Santander said he had to pay interest at around 30%.
Mr M said that he was told by Santander that the only way to stop interest being charged on
the rest of his debt was to pay the card off. He had a balance of around £3,000 at the time,
and he was on an interest free offer that still had several months to run. He said that this one
transaction shouldnt mean that he was suddenly paying 30% interest on all of his debt. That
wasnt fair. Hed had to borrow money from family members to pay it off.
Mr M initially wanted Santander to put his card back the way it was, with a balance of
£3,203.52 on an interest free offer. More recently, hes said he doesnt want to deal with
Santander any more, and hed just like compensation instead.
Santander didnt think what happened here was its fault. It said it wasnt responsible for how
the merchant processed the transaction. It had no control over that at all. It had still paid £30,
although it didnt think it had made a mistake.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Santander wasnt
responsible for Mr Ms decision to pay off the full balance on his card. And it hadnt made a
mistake in how it had processed this transaction. He thought that Santander had provided a
fair outcome by paying £30, even though it hadnt made a mistake. He said he wouldnt ask
it to pay any more.
Mr M said that Santander was responsible for how merchants using its card put transactions
through. He said if this had been put through incorrectly as a cash transaction, then
Santander shouldve corrected that. And he said that one cash transaction shouldnt mean
that he attracted a higher interest rate for all the balance on the card. Mr M wanted to know
how his one cash transaction meant that purchases and a balance transfer on his card,
which were both interest free, suddenly started to attract interest. Mr M said Santander
hadnt explained this when it sent him its response to his complaint.
Santander said that the whole credit card balance wouldnt be affected by one cash
transaction, but it was the case that before the cash withdrawal was paid, the outstanding
balance would have to be paid. So, Santander said that Mr M wouldnt have to pay interest
on the full balance. But the amount that was processed as a cash withdrawal would keep
attracting interest until the full balance was paid off.
This case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Santander has repeatedly assured our service that it has no control over how the 
merchant processes a payment. It says that this payment was processed as cash. It 
also said thats to do with what the merchant has said to the card scheme operator 
(whose symbol is on Mr Ms card) about the sort of business it runs. Santander cant 
change that. So I dont think that its Santanders fault that this payment wasnt 
treated the same as the other payments on Mr Ms card.
But I do think Santander gave Mr M some wrong advice over how this payment 
would impact his card. And in discussions with our service, it still doesnt seem to be 
setting this out properly. The calculation of interest on credit cards is quite 
complicated, but I wouldve expected Santander to be able to set this out for Mr M, 
and for its clear understanding to be visible in its communications with us. Thats not 
been the case.
Ive looked carefully at the relevant rules, and Santanders terms. And this is what I 
think Mr M shouldve been told, after he made the cash transaction.
Mr M wont have to pay interest on the whole balance on his card, just 
because of this cash transaction.
He will have to pay some interest on this transaction. Theres no way to avoid 
that. But because its only charged on this transaction, it wouldnt be much.
Santander will use any payments first to pay off the part of Mr Ms balance 
with the highest interest rate. Thats this transaction. So itll pay this off for him 
first.
But it doesnt apply payments to the item with the highest interest rate until 
that item shows on his statement. So, although Mr M had tried to pay this 
cash transaction back immediately, the payment hed made hadnt been used 
to pay off the cash transaction, because that transaction wasnt showing on 
his statement yet.
As soon as this cash transaction was showing on Mr Ms statement, he could 
pay it off.
Like most credit card providers, Santander starts charging interest on cash 
transactions as soon as they are made. So this transaction would still have 
incurred some interest, even if Mr M paid it off as soon as he was able to. But 
if he pays off the transaction and the interest too, then the rest of his spending 
remains interest free.
I dont think thats what Mr M understood. He understood that the whole of the card 
balance was going to attract interest, because of this one transaction. Thats not the 
case.
Was this misunderstanding Santanders fault? Santander said it no longer had this 
call for me to listen to, so I cant be sure what advice Mr M got on the phone. But 
Santander followed this up with a letter which told Mr M he would have to pay off the whole balance to avoid interest, and indeed, Santander still seems to me to be 
getting this wrong now in its discussions with our service. So I think its likely Mr M 
wasnt properly advised on this call.
For those reasons, I think its most likely to be Santanders fault that Mr M felt he had 
to pay off his whole credit card immediately. And Mr M told us this was extremely 
difficult to do. He didnt have the money, so he had to borrow from family members 
who werent really in a position to lend him this money.
I think Santander should pay Mr M compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
that this caused him. I dont think its existing payment of £30 is enough. I think a 
further payment of £250 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander confirmed that its position remained the same on the complaint. It is still of the 
opinion that the way in which the transaction was processed and subsequent interest 
charged was correct.
Santanders response doesnt address the key issue in this complaint, which is whether 
Mr M was wrongly advised by Santander on how a cash transaction would impact his 
account. I still think that its most likely he was.
Mr M replied to say that he was furious that what Santander had said to me was different to 
what it had said to him. He was convinced that what Santander had said to him was its 
actual policy, and that what it had said to me was something different to close this complaint 
and avoid having its malpractice investigated. He thought it was likely that Santander was 
breaching the rules on dealing with credit card transactions. And he thought Santander 
shouldve kept the call, so I could listen to it. Mr M said he was sure that he wasnt the only 
person this had happened to. 
Mr M said the payment of £30 was to refund charges applied, it wasnt compensation. He 
said hed been working overtime to pay back the money hed borrowed in order to clear the 
card. Mr M was happy to accept £250 for the first part of his complaint, but he wanted 
compensation for being bullied, threatened, and forced into clearing the whole debt on his 
card. 
Mr M said if the money he used to clear the card had been available to him, he couldve 
earned interest on it. And he wouldnt have had to work so many hours to keep afloat. He 
couldve just used money he was expecting around the time of the interest free offer, to pay 
off the card. He wanted me to add 8% simple interest to the amount hed paid to Santander 
to clear the card.
Mr M said hed been enticed by the 0% interest offer to take out this card, and wouldnt have 
spent money he didnt have, if he hadnt been given this offer. He repeated that he was 
deprived of over £3,000 between September 2019 and June 2020, and this was because of 
what Santander told him. I havent seen anything to suggest to me that Santander isnt complying with regulatory 
requirements on how it applies payments made towards a credit card debt. I have, however, 
seen responses which do suggest that some of Santanders agents dont understand this 
well. It is complicated, but, as I said in my provisional decision, I wouldve expected 
Santander to be able to set this out for Mr M, and for its clear understanding to be visible in 
its communications with us. It hasnt done either of those things. 
The detailed explanation in italics above, of how this card works, is something Ive set out for 
Mr M. Its an explanation of whats in Santanders terms. But that hasnt been provided to us 
by Santander.
Mr M said Santander was either confused about its own policies, or had backtracked when it 
noticed its policy was wrong. I think its the former. 
Mr M has set out for us the impact this had on him. I know Mr M borrowed money from 
family to repay Santander, so I can quite understand that hes felt under an obligation to pay 
that back as quickly as he can. Mr M had told us that these family members werent really in 
a position to lend him money, so I did take that into account when I reached my provisional 
decision. 
But I dont think Santander has to pay interest to Mr M because of this. Mr M hasnt 
suggested he needed to pay interest on the money he borrowed from his family. And I dont 
think he was deprived of all this money when he paid Santander back. He borrowed to do 
that. I know hes worked extra overtime, and hasnt then had the benefit of that money right 
away, as hes used it to pay back his family. But he also says that he was expecting some 
money this summer, which he was intending to use to pay off this card. His hard work in 
paying back family now means he wont have to put this money towards the card debt, and 
was presumably able to spend that or invest it, as he wished. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr M has said, but I still think that a payment of £250 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Ill now make the award I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr M £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman