DRN-1428406
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been sending  duplicate account 
statements to his previous address. He also complains about how Barclays dealt with him 
following his complaint.
What happened
Mr S says he found out in July 2019 that Barclays had been using his old address on 
account statements. He says he asked Barclays to change the address but was given 
conflicting information about what had happened and what could be done to sort the problem 
out. Mr S says at that time he applied for car finance and the application was refused, which 
must be linked. He says he made a number of calls to Barclays about this and was caused 
significant stress and anxiety that affected his sleep. Mr S says he is worried about his 
account security and would like compensation of £5,000.
Barclays accepts it made a mistake and says it has been sending  duplicate account 
statements to Mr S's previous address. It has apologised and has corrected the mistake. 
Barclays says it's not responsible for the car finance being declined and has offered £250 
compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall the compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator accepted Mr S had been caused stress and 
anxiety. But didn't think Mr S had suffered any financial loss and said that he could only 
consider actual loss and not what may have happened. The investigator thought if Mr S  had 
security concerns, he may wish to consider closing the account and using a different account 
that he had access to.
Mr S doesn't accept that view and says the problem went on for some time, and he was told 
he would receive call backs from Barclays which he didn't receive. He says he was given 
conflicting information and will not use the account in future when he is able to stop using it . 
In summary, he says the compensation offer is not enough and he is worried about the 
account security.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed 
by my decision.
There is no doubt here that Barclays made a mistake by sending duplicate account 
statements to Mr S's previous address. I have no doubt Mr S was caused stress and anxiety 
about his account security and that the statements had been sent to the previous address for 
some time. I also accept that Mr S then spent some time speaking to Barclays to try and get 
the problem resolved. So I'm satisfied Mr S was caused inconvenience in addition to the stress and anxiety. But I'm satisfied that Barclays had apologised for what took place and 
corrected the mistake. I also think its offer of compensation is fair and reasonable and 
fairly takes into account the stress and inconvenience Mr S was caused.
I appreciate Mr S concerns about the account security. But I have to consider what did take 
place here, and I'm satisfied Mr S did not suffer any financial loss as a result of Barclays 
mistake. I also think Barclays sorted matters out within a relatively short period of time. I can 
see Mr S told Barclays about the mistake at the end of July 2019 and by 8 August 2019 it 
had sent Mr S its final response to his complaint and had removed the incorrect address 
details. I can see that Mr S says he has lost confidence in Barclays and will stop using this 
account in due course. I understand why he has taken that decision but I don't think that 
justifies any further compensation.
I don't think there is any evidence the address problem impacted on Mr S's car finance 
application and I think it unlikely that it would in any event. Mr S hasn't provided me with his 
credit file or the reasons why the application was rejected. So I can't fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for that rejection.
Overall I have no doubt Mr S had concerns about how this mistake took place and that his 
account security could have been compromised. I also accept that he was caused 
inconvenience by what took place and may have been given different reasons by Barclays 
about what had taken place while it carried out its investigation. But I don't think any further 
compensation is justified and I don't think £5,000 compensation is fair or reasonable. I 
appreciate that Mr S may not wish to accept Barclays compensation offer and so will leave it 
to him to decide.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
£250 compensation. Mr S's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman