DRN-2501344
The complaint
Mr B complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold Service 
packaged bank account. He says he didnt agree to it or sign-up for it; the charges started 
appearing on his statements from the late 1990s.
What happened
Mr Bs account was opened in January 1995. Its not clear exactly when it was upgraded to a 
Gold Service packaged bank account. Hes provided a statement from 2001 which shows he 
held a Gold Service account at the time. Lloyds has said its records indicate Mr B held this 
account from as early as September 1999. The account was changed to a fee-free account 
in September 2013. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt think Lloyds mis-sold the 
account to Mr B. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as is the case here, my role is to 
make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind 
everything Ive seen and have been told by both parties.
Mr B says Lloyds added the fee-paying package to his account without his knowledge or 
consent. I can see his account was upgraded at least 20 years before he made this 
complaint. Given the length of time thats passed, its not unreasonable Lloyds hasnt been 
able to provide much information or documentation from the time the sale (or the upgrade) 
happened. I accept Mr B has given an honest recollection of what happened. But given the 
time thats passed, I dont agree Lloyds upgraded his account without his knowledge or 
consent just because its unable to provide evidence that it didnt.
I can see from Mr Bs account records that he didnt pay the account fee  which at the time 
was £8.00 per month  from at least the earliest available statement of 2001 until June 2003 
(not 2008 like the adjudicator has said). This was because he qualified for a fee-waiver due 
to the amount of money he paid into his account each month. So, Mr B held the Gold 
Service account for free for at least a few years. I think its likely this benefit was discussed 
at the time of the upgrade. As the monthly fee was waived if a certain amount of money was 
paid in each month, I consider its likely something Lloyds would have wanted to promote 
when discussing the account.
I also note from Lloyds records that Mr B took out a personal loan in September 1999. One 
of the benefits of the Gold Service account at the time was a preferential rate on loans, 
overdrafts and savings. We know Mr B held a Gold Service account at this time, so again 
I think its likely a discussion about the benefits would have taken place. And its not 
implausible Mr B might have found the preferential terms of the Gold Service account 
attractive  especially if he qualified for a fee-waiver.
Mr B says he wouldnt have used the free insurance benefits that came with the packaged 
account as they wouldnt have covered him fully. Hes also shown us he bought a 
standalone travel insurance policy in September 2010. In the late 1990s, the Gold Service 
account didnt offer many insurance-related benefits. They were added several years later. 
The account did, however, provide worldwide travel insurance from 1997 onwards. 
Its difficult for me to say whether the travel insurance benefit was something that could have 
been a consideration during the sale in Mr Bs case  his account could have been upgraded 
prior to this benefit being added. But even if this benefit was a feature of the Gold Service 
account and it was discussed during the sale, I dont consider Lloyds recommendation (it 
says its likely it recommended the account to Mr B) was unfair. The account offered banking 
benefits and potentially at no extra cost if the account fee was waived. I consider its most 
likely this probably led Mr B to agree to upgrade.     
I accept its possible Mr B didnt consider the benefits to be of much use to him as time went 
on and new benefits were added. But this doesnt mean the account was mis-sold at the 
outset. I understand he says he made several requests at one of Lloyds branches to stop 
charging the account fee, but this didnt happen. I dont doubt Mr B considered changing his 
account to a fee-free one at times, and I can see this did happen in 2013. But I think its 
reasonable to expect him to have raised his concerns with Lloyds sooner if he thought it 
wasnt adhering to his request(s) prior to 2013. We know it refunded some account fees in 
December 2008 when Mr Bs account balance went below the fee-waiver threshold. And 
according to Lloyds system notes from the time, Mr B was happy with this outcome.
Overall, having considered the circumstances surrounding this complaint, Im not persuaded 
the Gold Service account was mis-sold to Mr B. Accordingly, I wont be telling Lloyds to do 
anything further in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman