DRN-2291361
The complaint
Mr C complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance Company Limited carried out on his 
car after a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Admirals approved repairer carried out repairs to a door on Mr Cs car. But Mr C found that 
water and air were coming in through the new door. During a routine service, Mr Cs garage 
adjusted the door to prevent further water getting in and told Mr C that the door was inferior 
to others on the car. 
Mr C complained to Admiral and it sent an independent assessor to inspect the door. He 
agreed that the door wasnt sitting as it should. Admiral said Mr C should contact the parts 
supplier to make a warranty claim. But Mr C thought it was for Admiral to arrange the 
rectification of its repairs. Admiral paid Mr C a total of £150 for his inconvenience during the 
claim. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought a faulty part 
had been used in the repair by the approved repairer. And so he thought it was for Admiral 
to make sure the work was completed to a satisfactory standard, not for Mr C to make a 
warranty claim.
Admiral said that the adjustment made by Mr Cs garage had prejudiced the warranty claim. 
But our investigator thought Mr C had mitigated his losses by stopping further water 
damage. He thought Admiral should either arrange for the door to be repaired at its 
approved repairer or provide Mr C with a cash settlement so he could get the door replaced 
elsewhere. He thought Admirals offer of £150 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Admiral replied that it hadnt been given a chance to inspect the issue or rectify it. It thought 
Mr C may have prejudiced a warranty claim for the faulty part.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. He told us that hed owned the car for just a few weeks 
when it was damaged. It took some time for Admiral to have it repaired, and then he found 
that water and air were coming in through the replacement door. Its now 18 months since 
the incident and the issue remains outstanding. 
I think its been established that the problem lies with a faulty part that was fitted by Admirals 
approved repairer. Under the policys General Conditions, it is stated, 
In the unlikely event the repairs are considered unsatisfactory, the Approved Repairer will 
have the option to rectify their work. 
Unfortunately, Mr C didnt raise this issue with Admiral or its repairer before he took his car 
for a routine service. He then asked the engineer to look at the door. The engineer applied 
manual pressure to the top of the door to make the seals meet and so prevent further water 
ingress and damage. He told Mr C to complain to Admiral about the fault.
I think Admiral then reasonably appointed an independent assessor to inspect the car. He 
said that the fault lay with the replacement door and this was a warranty issue.  
Admiral agreed that this was a warranty issue and it initially started to arrange for Mr Cs car 
to be recovered to the parts supplier for assessment. But it then noted that the independent 
assessor was concerned that the warranty may have been affected by Mr Cs garages 
intervention.
Admiral then told Mr C to contact the parts supplier himself to make a warranty claim. I can 
understand that he was reluctant to do this as the supplier was some 60 miles away and he 
said Admiral wouldnt transport the car or provide a courtesy car whilst his car was being 
assessed. 
Admiral said that the adjustment to the door made by Mr Cs garage may have prejudiced 
any warranty claim. But I cant see that it has established this as it hasnt tried to make a 
warranty claim. It relied on the independent assessors view that the warranty claim may be 
rejected.
In any case, I think it was reasonable for Mr C to mitigate his losses and allow the garage to 
adjust the door to improve the meeting of the seals. Mr C has provided a detailed report from 
his garage and I can see that this was done to prevent any further water damage. We expect 
consumers to mitigate their losses, and so I think this was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I can see that on page 2 of Mr Cs policy it is stated that, 
All repairs carried out by our Approved Repairers are guaranteed whilst you own the vehicle 
Any parts that are used during the repair will be covered under the manufacturers 
guarantee.
I think its been established that the repairs werent satisfactory as the door didnt close as it 
should. So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Admiral to abdicate responsibility for the 
repairs carried out by its approved repairer. And I dont think it was fair or reasonable for 
Admiral to pass the problem to Mr C to deal with. I think Mr C reasonably mitigated his 
losses and I dont think this should prevent Admiral from rectifying the repairs that are 
guaranteed. I dont think its relevant whether or not the part is still covered by the 
manufacturers guarantee. 
Putting things right
I think Admiral should arrange for the car to be repaired, either by arranging for its approved 
repairer to rectify the repairs or by providing Mr C with a cash settlement to allow him to 
have the door replaced elsewhere. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman