DRN-3309406
The complaint
Mr B complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Home 
Cover (Swinton) registered incorrect information about his previous claims that caused him 
problems when taking out home insurance. 
What happened
Mr B took out home insurance through Swinton, who are an insurance broker. In 2019 he 
had an ongoing claim for subsidence at his property with his insurer at the time  who Ill 
refer to as G. 
In 2019 Swinton dealt with his renewal and the policy renewed with G. On its internal system 
it had the subsidence claim registered at a value of £1. 
In 2020 the claim value was registered as £0 and that it had been resolved. Swinton placed 
Mr B with a new insurer. However once the full claim value was corrected, Swinton was no 
longer able to offer insurance.
Mr B subsequently looked for a different insurance policy but found that they were all much 
more expensive. He made a complaint to Swinton as he felt the incorrect information it had 
given had led him to being without insurance.
Swinton upheld his complaint and accepted it had made an error in registering the claim on 
its system and using this information for Mr Bs renewals. It offered £100 compensation to 
apologise.
Mr B was unhappy with this as he said he hadnt been able to secure a new home insurance 
policy. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She said under The Association 
of British Insurers (ABI) guidance on Continuation of Cover G should continue to offer cover 
after a subsidence claim. And she thought Swinton should assist Mr B in arranging cover 
with G. She also thought Swinton should pay an additional £100 compensation to make up 
for the distress it had caused him.
Mr B accepted our investigators opinion. Swinton agreed to pay the additional compensation 
but didnt agree it should assist in arranging a new policy. It asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Swinton has accepted it made an error when arranging the renewal of Mr Bs policy. And it 
has agreed to pay a total of £200 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience this error has caused. Mr B has accepted this offer, and I agree its fair in the 
circumstances. 
All thats left in dispute is whether Swinton need to do anything further.
Mr B has explained that he has struggled to find a new insurance policy, due to the previous 
subsidence claim. Hes said hes approached his previous insurer but they were unable to 
offer a quote as they only go through brokers.
As a broker, Id expect Swinton to assist Mr B with his renewal, particularly as in this case its 
error has caused him to be without a new policy. So I dont think its fair that it has declined 
to assist Mr B.
Further, the ABI guidance is in place in order to ensure that insurers continue to insure a 
domestic property after it has dealt with a subsidence claim on it. So Id expect Swinton to be 
able to arrange a renewal by contacting G on his behalf. 
Its important to note that Swinton has no control over which insurers will provide Mr B with a 
new policy, or at what price. However I think its fair and reasonable for it to assist Mr B in 
securing a renewed home insurance policy. For this reason I agree with our investigator that 
it should contact G in order to try and arrange a policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Atlanta Insurance 
Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Home Cover to:
Pay Mr B a total of £200 compensation.
Assist Mr B in the renewal of his home insurance policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman