DRN-3031458
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mrs M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Nationwides subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit sharing, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Nationwide should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the 
cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
I have seen the type of agreement Mrs M would have signed when she applied for her new 
card. There was a section which invited her to choose if she did  or she didnt  want PPI 
with the new card she was applying for. There is no doubt she was sold PPI to her, so I think 
she selected the yes option, as well as also signing to agree the credit terms. I think 
Nationwide properly obtained her consent.
I note this was a postal application and therefore not an advised sale. This means 
Nationwide didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for her, the decision about 
buying the cover was for Mrs M to make and she would have made her way through the 
postal application in her own time without any intervention from Nationwide. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt quite as clear as it 
should have been and Ive given a lot of thought to this area. However, the cover wasnt too 
dissimilar to what Mrs M reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given at the point of sale. I therefore dont think Mrs M would have declined the policy, even 
if Nationwide could have done a better job at explaining things. She was eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
The PPI would also have paid out 10% of Mrs Ms outstanding credit card balance for up to a 
year if shed needed to claim. This would have been in addition to any other means she had 
at that time. Mrs Ms representatives told us about her medical history in the context of any 
pre-existing medical conditions that might have affected her ability to successfully claim on 
the policy. But they provided very little detail and mentioned only a condition that seems to 
have been temporary in nature. The representative also raised the issue of Mrs Ms age and 
pointed out she would most likely retire at 60. However, she was considerably younger than 
this at the point of sale, so Im afraid I dont consider this issue to be relevant.
Overall, I think this policy was of use to Mrs M.
Mrs Ms representative also raised a number of what I consider to be other general points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a 
claim.
But Mrs Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these and how they might apply in Mrs Ms particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: - The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mrs M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Mrs M should get back 
all the money she paid for the policy because: Nationwide failed to tell Mrs M about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMrs M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the high 
level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mrs M paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes 
the source of the unfairness because it leaves Mrs M with the policy Ive concluded above 
she would still have taken out if Nationwide had done everything it should have done  but 
with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ms complaint or make any award for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs M an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). The evidence Ive seen suggests an offer was previously made in this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman