DRN-3037891
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the information provided by Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading 
as Asset Link Capital (No.7) (ALC) about early settlement of his loan.
What happened
Mr I took out a loan with lender S on 25 January 2018. Mr I borrowed £19,500 over a term of 
84 months. The total interest for the loan was £9,585.84. The total amount payable by the 
end of the loan term was £29,085.84. The monthly repayments were £346.26. In May 2020 
Mr Is loan was sold to ALC.
Mr I was sent annual statements for his loan in January 2019, January 2020, and January 
2021. The account balance showing on the annual statement was £17,786.90, £15,684.26, 
and £14,085.37 respectively. 
Mr I contacted ALC in August 2020, January 2021, and March 2021. He was told the amount 
to close the account would be £16,139.39, £15,116.55, and £14,618.42 respectively. 
Mr I contacted ALC saying the annual statement and the settlement quotes provided were 
unclear. Mr I was unhappy that ALC couldnt explain the difference in amount between the 
account balance on the annual statement, and the settlement quotes he was being given. 
ALC responded to Mr Cs complaint on 27 November 2020 saying that the settlement quotes 
had been calculated in line with calculation of early settlement of a loan as directed by the 
regulations for consumer credit. The final response letter also explained that Mr I had taken 
a three month holiday payment for payments due April, May and June 2020. Because of this, 
the payments plus interest wouldve built up and become payable at the end of the loan 
term. ALC didnt offer any compensation in resolution of Mr Is complaint. 
Mr I was unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to this service. The 
investigator found that ALC had acted fairly, and didnt ask them to do anything in 
settlement of Mr Is complaint. 
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators findings. Mr I remained concerned with the £1,000 
difference in the balance outstanding showing on the annual statement for January 2021, 
and the settlement quote he was given in the same month. He also said the statement sent 
in January 2021 didnt accurately show the interest that was being charged during April- 
June 2020, and so ALC hadnt provided correct information on his statement. Mr I said hed 
like an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint. I can 
understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr I but I hope my findings go some 
way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr I has explained that ALC have failed to explain why theres almost £1,000 difference in 
the balance outstanding showing on the annual statement for January 2021, and the 
settlement quote he was given in the same month. The annual statement provided to Mr I in 
January 2021 showed an outstanding balance of £14,085.37. That same month, Mr I was 
told the amount to close the account would be £15,116.55. 
The annual statements sent to Mr I would show the transaction history for the last 12 months 
against the capital borrowed only. So this summary wouldnt include the interest element of 
Mr Is borrowing. In Mr Is case, the annual statement would show the transaction history for 
the £19,500 capital borrowed. The annual statement would not reflect the impact of the 
transactions on the total borrowing, including interest, of £29,085.84.
When calling ALC for a settlement quote, as part of the equation set out by the regulations, 
ALC would first determine the future payments remaining under the total borrowing by Mr I- 
so that would include both the capital borrowed and the interest. It would be this amount that 
is used to then apply any rebate, compensation, arrears, early repayment, charges/ fees and 
default interest to. 
As evidenced by the annual statements, during the early years of Mr Is loan, a greater 
proportion of the monthly payments were being used to repay the interest element of Mr Is 
loan. The amount being used to pay towards the interest gradually decreased over the term 
of the loan. Because of this, in those early years, the capital borrowing wouldve been less 
impacted by the monthly payments being made by Mr I each month. 
Unlike the annual statement, the settlement quote considers the transaction history over 
both the capital borrowed and interest being charged. This would explain why this amount is 
different to the balance showing as outstanding on the annual statements sent to Mr I. 
Mr I says he is concerned by the accuracy of the January 2021 statement, as it doesnt show 
the interest that was being charged for April, May and June 2020. Ive considered what ALC 
have explained about the payment holiday given to Mr I during this period. The impact of this 
wouldve meant that the total balance owed by Mr I wouldve increased. ALC have explained 
that Mr Is loan term was extended to reflect the monthly payments not made during the 
deferment period, and also the interest that wouldve built up during this time. 
Although Mr I feels strongly that the interest payments shouldve still shown on his annual 
statement, I dont agree that ALC did something wrong in the information presented to Mr I. 
It had been agreed that the monthly payments and interest that built up during the three 
month period would be deferred, and payable at the end of the loan term. So I think it was 
reasonable that the January 2021 statement didnt include either a direct debit or interest 
transaction for the three month deferral period. The deferment was agreed with Mr I, and I 
cant say ALC acted unfairly, or did something wrong, in the information provided to Mr I on 
his annual statement. So I wont be asking ALC to do anything differently, or pay any 
compensation in settlement of Mr Is complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman