DRN-3283224
The complaint
K and Mr D complain about the level of service received from Aviva Insurance Limited, 
following claims against their buildings insurance. 
What happened
Mr D owns a property he lets to a tenant, and another he resides in. K is the freeholder. 
In October 2020, water damage was noticed within the property Mr D rents to a tenant, so he 
raised a claim to Aviva. Mr D says he was on holiday and received a call from Avivas 
appointed loss adjuster who explained a face to face meeting was required. Mr D says he 
found online that the loss adjuster was a fraud investigator and was unhappy they had been 
appointed  suggesting he was being investigated for fraud. 
Mr D arrived home from holiday and noticed water damage in the property he lives in. So, he 
contacted Aviva to make a new claim. He also contacted the loss adjuster he had spoken to 
whilst on holiday, who said the face to face meeting discussed previously would not go 
ahead, and Aviva would need to give further instructions as a new claim had been raised. 
Mr D said the loss adjuster was rude and aggressive towards him. He says he raised these 
concerns with the loss adjusters manager, and Mr D says the manager told him to prove it. 
Aviva said Mr D had raised several claims over the past few years, and so they appointed a 
loss adjuster to investigate what was happening at Mr Ds owned properties, given the 
number of claims. 
Later, a site visit was booked between Mr D and the loss adjuster. But Mr D didnt want the 
person he felt spoke to him unprofessionally in attendance. He also requested that the 
meeting wasnt recorded. Aviva agreed to this however, later, Mr D decided to withdraw the 
claims. I understand these claims were re-opened later.
Mr D said he suffers from mental health issues and the way Aviva handled things were 
exacerbating these. He also provided witness statements which gave testimony to how the 
claims had impacted his health. He also said his family had been impacted by the way things 
were handled. 
Mr D raised a complaint to Aviva as he was unhappy with the way things were handled. 
Aviva responded to the complaint in November 2020. They said they instructed a loss 
adjuster given the claim history and needed to better understand what was happening at    
Mr Ds properties. And they had instructed a loss adjuster from a company that had 
previously been involved with Mr Ds claim history, as they would be in a better position to 
provide them with a full understanding. Aviva felt they had dealt with Mr Ds claims in a 
professional and satisfactory manner. So, they didnt uphold it. 
Aviva also said that, given the claim history, it was appropriate to appoint one loss adjuster 
to validate both claims. But the two claims Mr D reported were recorded as two separate 
claims against the policy. This was because they were different claims at different 
addresses. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Avivas response. So, he approached our service for an independent 
review. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He felt 
Aviva were entitled to instruct a loss adjuster to validate the claims Mr D had raised. And he 
didnt think there was strong persuasive evidence to show Aviva had treated him unfairly. 
Mr D didnt agree and remained unhappy with the outcome reached. He said hed provide 
our investigator with further information, on 15 December 2021. Our investigator requested 
this further information from Mr D, who said he would provide it again, on 28 January 2022. 
As Mr D hasnt responded, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important I explain in this decision I will not be making a finding on the physical claims  
Mr D raised to Aviva. Ill only be considering the level of service Mr D received up to the 
point Aviva responded to the complaint, in November 2020. Any concerns Mr D has for 
events that have taken place following Avivas November 2020 final response letter would 
need to be raised with them as a separate complaint. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the way things were handled by Aviva when he raised two separate 
claims in 2020. 
Aviva says Mr D raised several claims over the past few years for the two properties he 
owns. Ive seen from the claim history, these claims were accepted and settled by Aviva. 
I should explain its not unusual for an insurer to appoint a loss adjuster to validate a 
policyholders claim/s. Aviva said this decision was taken due to the claim history, to validate 
the new claims made and to make enquiries into why claims were needed to be made by   
Mr D. I dont find it was unreasonable for Aviva to appoint a loss adjuster to investigate 
further  or to use a company who had prior experience of the claim history. 
I can appreciate it could have been confusing for Mr D given he said hed found online that 
the loss adjuster appointed was a fraud investigator. I can understand why this could have 
made him feel as though he was being investigated. But ultimately, an insurer is entitled to 
instruct a loss adjuster for any claim to validate whether whats happened is covered, and if it 
is, to undertake arranging a scope of works to validate the costs. This is standard industry 
practice so, whilst I understand why Mr D could have been concerned, I cannot agree with 
him that Aviva acted unfairly in this respect.  
Aviva said the two claims Mr D reported were recorded separately. But Mr D had concerns 
that Aviva decided to validate them together  using one loss adjuster. I understand it could 
have been confusing given the two claims occurred in different properties. But I dont think 
this was an unreasonable decision for Aviva to have made. Its for Aviva to decide how they 
wish to consider claims and validate them, and I wouldnt interfere with this. 
Mr D also raised an issue with the way he was treated by the loss adjuster, and their 
manager. He said the loss adjuster had been rude and aggressive towards him. And when 
he raised this with the manager, he says he was told to prove it. Mr D requested a new loss 
adjuster be appointed, but Aviva didnt agree to do this. I think this would be a valid reason for a policyholder to request another loss adjuster be 
appointed if they felt they were treated unfairly. However, whilst I dont doubt Mr Ds 
testimony, I cannot say Aviva acted unfairly here, as Ive not seen strong supporting 
evidence to support this. 
Mr D has told us he suffers from mental health issues, and the way things were handled 
have exacerbated these which Im very sorry to hear of. And I can appreciate having to deal 
with this number of claims over the years has been inconvenient and distressing. But, based 
on the information available to me, Im unable to agree Aviva acted unfairly by appointing a 
loss adjuster to validate the claims, or they treated him unfairly. So, I wont be requiring 
Aviva to do anything further. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to K and Mr D. But my decision ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman