DRN-3776531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling and decision to 
decline their claim for storm damage under a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs F made a claim on their home insurance policy after the 
collapse of a garden boundary wall and damage to some of their roof ridge tiles following 
heavy storms. There was a partial collapse of a section of the stone wall that slipped down 
the driveway embankment and onto the road below.
Aviva have not disputed that there were storms but declined the claim for the wall by relying 
on policy exclusion for gradual damage. It says the damage was primarily down to wear and 
tear and damage that occurred gradually. Aviva believes the storms only highlighted these 
problems. 
Mr and Mrs F say they were told by Aviva the make safe works would be covered. Aviva 
disagreed, saying it wouldnt pay for these works unless the claim was accepted as valid. 
Mr and Mrs F also said they have received poor service, part of their claim appears to have 
been ignored for damage to the roof ridge tiles, damage to stone ornaments and a ladder. 
Aviva also at one point cancelled the policy stating Mr and Mrs F had breached the policy 
condition to take precautions to prevent loss and keep the property in good condition. It later 
reversed this decision and instead it added a clause to the policy to exclude the boundary 
walls/ rockface and the balustrade.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Aviva had unfairly declined the claim as he 
felt it was more likely that the storms had caused the damage claimed rather than wear and 
tear. And he didnt think it fair for Aviva to rely on the gradual damage exclusion.
Aviva didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs F have claimed in relation to an injury to a third party when they were 
inspecting the wall. Aviva has said its bodily injury department is handling the claim, and this 
is separate to the storm claim for the property. I will only be addressing the buildings claim 
within this decision.
It isnt disputed that there were three storms that affected the area within a very short period 
of time.  The number of storms in quick succession affecting this area, taking into account 
the amount of rainfall and gale force winds, is something that could damage a wall in this 
way. 
Aviva has attributed the damage to other contributing factors such as wear and tear.  So, I 
have to consider if the storm was the proximate cause of the damage in this case.  
Both parties have sent in their expert reports for consideration. 
In summary, Avivas structural engineers say there are six factors that it considered likely to 
be contributing factors to the collapse:
Vegetation
Lack of wall foundations
Tree stumps
High winds
Surface water inundation
Wall base slip failure
In summary, Aviva say that the vegetation covering the already old wall caused it to become 
unstable and the storms merely highlighted the walls longstanding structural inadequacies. 
Aviva has pointed out previous slippages in 2010 and 2016. These were prior to Mr and Mrs 
F living at the property but Mr and Mrs F checked the claims prior to moving into the property 
and the damage in those instances was also covered on the basis they were caused by 
storm.
Following the collapse of the wall Mr and Mrs F had a structural survey done. The engineer 
had sight of Avivas report. Mr and Mrs Fs report was forwarded to Aviva for comment it 
didnt respond to our investigator until after he issued his view of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Fs engineer carried out a review on the likely mechanism of collapse and made 
the following points in its report against the factors raised in Avivas report: 
The vegetation management to the affected area was sufficient as to not cause 
deterioration, therefore vegetation would not have contributed significantly to the 
collapse
It was unlikely there was foundation instability causing collapse as any inherent 
instability would have manifested itself before now (this is supported by the Survey in 
2018 suggesting stability)
Tree stumps were the result of large tree removals in the past in line with best 
practice and would actually have served to abate any progressive deterioration. The 
stumps themselves would not have contributed significantly
The combination of multiple storms with high winds and the embankment location 
amplifying weather effects and high rainfall contributed significantly to the damage
Erosion of soils over time was unlikely to have been a significant contributing factor 
due to the sudden nature of the collapse (again, supported by the 2018 Survey)
Wear and tear would only be relevant to the vegetation and tree stumps  but there 
was insufficient evidence of negative effects of the stump and there was vegetation 
growth to the wall elsewhere along the boundary wall in areas still standing. In the 
areas where the wall had collapsed, vegetation growth didnt appear to present 
significant detrimental impact
The sudden nature of the collapse contradicts the idea of gradual deteriorationAs our investigator pointed out, Aviva should be aware of our services approach on gradual 
damage. Whilst an insurer may sometimes be able to decline a claim on a strict application 
of the terms, our service is able to look beyond this. In this case, wed consider whether the 
consumer ought to have been aware of the damage occurring gradually. Given that there 
were no warnings from the Chartered Structural Engineer in the survey of 2018, and they 
were maintaining the vegetation I dont think the consumers ought to have been aware of 
any gradual damage. So, I dont think its fair for Aviva to rely on this exclusion.
In weighing up the reports I note Avivas report doesnt provide information about the degree 
to which each contributing factor contributed overall to the damage. Avivas report also relied 
on the assumption that there were no foundations, but Mr and Mrs Fs evidence contradicts 
it, and this was sent to Aviva on 27 September 2022, to show that the consumers builder 
had dismantled the wall in the area of the collapse to reveal foundations.  
In Avivas response to this evidence, it has reiterated there is no evidence of foundations in 
place and questions how this is possible due to the gradient present. It continues to say the 
dry-stone wall appears to have been built directly onto the ground, which is how they were 
built originally, if there was a foundation put in then this would have been at a later date, but 
it would question how this is possible with the embankment. Aviva has also said it disagrees 
that the vegetation was kept under control as access is simply not possible. And there is 
inadequate drainage. 
However, Im persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs evidence that there does appear to be some 
foundations excavated by their builder. They have also said the vegetation has been 
controlled and it is annually trimmed. Aviva raised that there was inadequate drainage but, in 
its report, I note it says the effectiveness of the drainage is unknown.
In addition, Mr and Mrs F have said that the old stormwater clay pipe has been repaired prior 
to this event with a flexible liner to ensure leaks did not damage the rockface and continued 
to take excess water away from the property as intended.  Aviva has pointed to some cracks 
in the drive as evidence of long-term movement to the bank/embankment. However, Im not 
seen clear evidence that this has been caused by movement of the bank/embankment and 
also note that this is a fair distance away from where the slippage occurred. So overall, I am 
more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs engineer that the damage was caused primary by the 
high winds and rains from the storms. I will therefore instruct Aviva to reconsider the claim 
without relying on exclusions for wear and tear and gradual damage.
In addition to the declination of the claim, Mr and Mrs F have complained of the poor service 
it has received regarding other parts of their claim.  They raised that there was damage to 
the ridge tiles when they first notified the loss to Aviva, this has not been addressed and only 
in the response received after our Investigators view has it said that this can be resolved by 
way of some photographs. I take this as an acknowledgement that it hasnt acted on this 
prior to this complaint, and I will instruct it to consider this under the claim.
Mr and Mrs F also raised damage to stone ornaments and a ladder, again I will instruct 
Aviva to review and respond on these items directly with Mr and Mrs F. 
Finally, Aviva told Mr and Mrs F that it was cancelling their policy on the grounds they had 
breached the policy condition to take precautions to prevent loss and keep property in good 
condition.  I note Aviva overturned their decision, but Im not satisfied the original decision to 
cancel the policy was fair and no doubt caused Mr and Mrs F distress. I say this because the 
2018 survey that Mr and Mrs F had, did not make them aware of any immediate or likely 
danger and they were carrying out vegetation management in line with best practice. Overall, Im persuaded there has been poor service and independent of any claim I will 
instruct Aviva to pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
I will instruct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider the claim without relying on exclusions for wear and tear and gradual 
damage
Pay any amounts Mr and Mrs F have paid that fall under the insured damage (costs 
that are covered), Aviva should also pay an additional 8% simple interest on these 
amounts from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Consider the make safe works and costs when reconsidering the claim, including 
discussing any costs being claimed by any third party with the third party directly (so 
Mr and Mrs F dont have to do this)
Consider the ridge tile damage and other items listed above
Independent of any claim payments, Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs F £400 in total for 
the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman