DRN-4217133
The complaint
Mr C complains about Covea Insurance plcs handling of a claim under his car insurance 
policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr C has car insurance underwritten by Covea. He made a claim in November 2021 after 
being involved in an accident which was not his fault.
Covea promptly accepted the claim and identified the repairs that needed to be carried out. 
In essence, the car could still be driven. The passenger-side wing mirror was compromised 
and needed repair, but it was still legal to drive the car.
At that point, Coveas approved repairer advised that the required part(s) were not 
immediately available in Europe. They offered to carry out a temporary repair to Mr Cs car. 
He declined the offer because he feared it would impact the warranty he had with the car 
manufacturer. 
At the same time, Mr C told Covea and/or the approved repairer that he wouldnt be paying 
his excess because the accident wasnt his fault.
In July 2022, Covea waived the excess, even though they were not obliged to do so. Shortly 
after that, the approved repairer was able to order the required parts. The parts were 
delivered in August 2022.  
The repair work was scheduled for October 2022. But then postponed apparently due to a 
suitable courtesy car not being available. It was eventually completed in November 2022.
Mr C made a complaint to Covea about the delays in the repairs to his car. He also thought it 
wasnt reasonable for Covea to delay waiving the excess. 
And he was unhappy with Coveas communications and the fact they didnt keep him 
properly informed about the progress of the claim  for example, by failing to respond when 
he raised queries and complaints with them.
When Covea said they wouldnt be upholding Mr Cs complaint, he brought it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Covea had done anything wrong.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, let me say how sorry I was to hear about Mr Cs accident. It must have been a 
traumatic experience. It clearly wasnt Mr Cs fault. And it appears the third party was trying 
to avoid responsibility, which prolonged the period before the third party insurer accepted 
liability.
I do have to point out though that Mr C appears to have misunderstood how excess 
payments work. Excesses are payable whenever a claim is settled, whether or not the 
policyholder was at fault. 
Theyre part of the agreement between the insured and the customer and are set out clearly 
in the policy terms. And, in short, there is often an element of choice for the customer  
larger excesses usually mean smaller premiums.
It wouldnt have been unreasonable then for Covea  or the approved repairer on their 
behalf  to delay carrying out repairs until the excess had been paid.
Covea eventually agreed to waive the excess  which they were not obliged to do  given all 
of the circumstances in this particular case. 
The delays over the excess though didnt have any appreciable effect on the overall delay in 
getting the repairs to the car carried out. There was a global issue with the supply of parts at 
the time. And its clear  and Mr C accepts this  that it was impossible for the repairer to get 
the required parts in Europe at the time.
Covea arent in any way responsible for global supply difficulties caused by COVID, raw 
material shortages and/or any other factor affecting the world economy.
Its Mr Cs contention that the repairer may have been able to get the parts more quickly had 
they gone direct to the car manufacturer in their home country (which isnt in Europe).
On balance, I dont think Mr Cs argument is entirely persuasive. The repairer - and Covea  
were entitled to rely on their more immediate and regular supply chains. 
I might take a different view if Mr C had been unavoidably without a car for the period in 
question. In fact, as I say, his car was able to be driven despite the damage caused by the 
accident. 
Furthermore, the approved repairer and/or Covea offered  almost immediately after the 
claim was made in November 2021 and at points throughout the first half of 2022  to carry 
out a temporary repair to the car so that the full functionality of the passenger-side wing 
mirror was restored.
It was Mr Cs decision not to allow those temporary repairs. I understand why he took that 
position  he felt the car manufacturers warranty might be compromised. But that was his 
choice and Im not sure what more Covea could have done. 
Mr C is also unhappy that Covea didnt give him a refund on part of his annual premium 
given that his mileage was much lower than expected. In essence, he didnt want to risk long 
journeys in the car with damage to the wing mirror  whether or not it was strictly speaking 
legal to drive with the car in that state. 
I understand why Mr C wouldnt want to use the car more than he had to without a 
passenger-side wing mirror. However, as Ive said above, Im satisfied on balance that 
Covea did all they could reasonably do to keep Mr C as mobile as hed previously been 
during the period whilst they were awaiting availability of the required parts.At any point after November 2021, Mr C could have had the temporary repairs that Covea 
were recommending carried out. It was his choice not to do so. If that choice was affected by 
a warranty with another business - and the real or perceived constraints on that warranty  I 
cant reasonably hold Covea responsible for that.
Mr C has highlighted some minor delays - during the year or so when his car was awaiting 
repairs - that he thinks are entirely Coveas fault. 
He says they didnt tell the approved repairer immediately when they decided to waive the 
excess. And he says the repairs were postponed between October 2022 and November 
2022 due to the non-availability of a suitable courtesy car.
It seems to me those delays were minor in the grand scheme of things. And any delay in 
Covea advising the repairer theyd waived the excess is largely irrelevant  if Covea had 
done that right away, it wouldnt have altered the (later) time at which the parts became 
available to order.
Mr C also says that Covea failed to keep him updated about the claim. And didnt answer his 
queries, questions and complaints in a timely and effective manner. 
The evidence we have on file suggests Covea - and/or the repairer  were in touch with 
Mr C reasonably often during the course of the claim and certainly at any point were 
anything significant happened to progress things. They may not have immediately 
addressed all the points Mr C made in his correspondence to them, but they picked up and 
responded to the significant issues he raised.
Finally, Mr C has recently told us hes disappointed that the broker who sold him the policy 
didnt pass on to Covea within a reasonable timeframe his complaint about the premiums not 
being reduced or part-refunded.
If Mr C wishes to make a complaint about that specific issue, he will need to raise it with the 
broker in the first instance and then bring it to us if hes not satisfied with their response.
In summary, Im satisfied on balance that Covea havent treated Mr C unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way they handled his claim. They waived his excess. They offered a 
reasonable temporary solution when the car couldnt be repaired immediately through no 
fault of their own. And they made Mr C aware of the likely delays with the repairs and the 
reasons for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman