DRN-3322150
The complaint
Mrs H complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 2004. 
What happened
The policy that was sold to Mrs H was a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP). A TMPP 
was typically comprised of a number of different types of insurance products such as PPI, 
critical illness cover and life protection. It was possible to choose some or all of the products 
that were offered. In this case, all three elements were sold to Mrs H. She only complained 
about the PPI element of the cover and so that is what I have looked at in this decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs H strongly disagreed with 
that view. She said she was not made aware the PPI was optional and the cost of the cover 
was not explained. She said she did not need PPI because she would have been entitled to 
statutory sick pay from her employer and could have paid the mortgage out of those funds. 
As Mrs H did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
PPI was sold to Mrs H in a branch of Halifax. I cant know what was said during that meeting. 
So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mrs H 
remembers about it. And Ive also looked at Halifaxs electronic evidence thats available 
from the time. 
I know Mrs H is adamant that she was not told the cover was optional. And I accept that 
what she told us is her honest recollection about what happened. But I have to bear in mind 
that it is difficult to recall precisely what happened more than 15 years ago  which is when 
this cover was sold.
Looking at the electronic evidence, I think there was most likely a discussion about PPI. I say 
this because Halifax recorded answers to a number of questions that only Mrs H would have 
known the answer to, such as her smoker status and whether she had any health conditions. 
Mrs H would have also had to complete a separate direct debit mandate to authorise the 
monthly premiums to be taken from her bank account. If there was a discussion about PPI, I 
think its most likely the person selling the cover made it clear Mrs H had a choice about 
whether to take it out.  
Ive treated this as an advised sale. So that means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to 
check whether the cover was suitable for Mrs Hs needs. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. Ive also looked at 
what Mrs H told us about her personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, Mrs Hs monthly mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to two years if she was off sick or if she lost her 
job. 
Mrs H said she didnt need PPI because she would have received statutory sick pay from 
her employer. But I think the statutory sick pay would have been less than she received from 
her usual wages. That means with PPI, Mrs H could have used her statutory sick pay on her 
existing commitments at what could well have been a difficult time for her if she was out of 
work. The PPI would have also lasted for up to two years  which is substantially longer than 
statutory sick pay. 
I understand Mrs H was in good health when the policy was sold. So I dont think she would 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. I havent 
seen anything unusual about Mrs Hs employment circumstances that would have stopped 
her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
I need to stress that Mrs Hs mortgage was secured on her home, which could have been at 
risk if she was off sick or if she lost her job. Putting all of this together, I think Halifaxs PPI 
recommendation probably was suitable for Mrs H. 
Even so, Halifax still had to give Mrs H enough information about the PPI cover so she could 
decide for herself whether the cover was suitable for her needs. That information should 
have been clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that Halifax didnt tell Mrs H 
everything it should have done about the cover. But Ive set out above how the cover could 
have been helpful if Mrs H was out of work. So I dont think shed have acted differently even 
if Halifax had given her more or better information about the policy. 
As I said, I am sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman