DRN-1742050
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of her mobile phone insurance 
claim.  
What happened
In October 2019 Miss G made an accidental damage claim to Allianz about her mobile 
phone. Allianz wanted more information from Miss G to validate her claim. And suggested 
her phone be inspected by its specialist team. Miss G wasnt happy about this. She said 
Allianz had told her to take her phone to a repair shop to get the damage inspected and a 
quote for the repair. This cost her £15 which she said Allianz promised to reimburse. But it 
was now saying this wasnt the case and it needed more information to validate her claim. 
Miss G complained to Allianz. Allianz said it couldnt find evidence it had told Miss G it would 
reimburse her the £15 inspection cost. And it maintained it needed more information to 
validate her claim. 
Miss G was unhappy with this response, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think Allianz had treated Miss G unfairly. He 
said hed seen no evidence Allianz agreed to refund the cost of having the phone inspected. 
He also felt Allianz was within its rights to ask for more information about how the damage to 
the phone occurred so it could fully consider Miss Gs claim. 
Miss G disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She 
maintained Allianz told her to take her phone to the repair shop and because of this poor 
advice, shes suffered loss and inconvenience. Miss G said Allianzs handling of her case 
was unacceptable. And that shed always been forthcoming in providing the requested 
information. Miss G also felt Allianz hadnt been mindful of her health condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss G feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. I was also sorry to hear about Miss Gs poor health 
which I can understand made pursuing this complaint difficult for her. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
The terms and conditions of Miss Gs policy state that the policy holder must provide full 
details of the damage claimed for and any proof Allianz asked for. The terms and conditions 
also say that any costs incurred in providing that information is paid for by the policy holder. 
I can see from an email sent to Miss G on 2 October 2019 that she was asked to get a quote 
for the cost of repair to her mobile phone. She did this on 4 October 2019 at a cost of £15. 
If Miss G had the impression the quote was all that was needed to validate her claim, then I 
can appreciate how she feels this was a waste of time and delayed matters. But 
Miss G seems to suggest that because Allianz told her to get the quote from the repair shop, 
that meant it should accept the quote as enough evidence to support her claim. And 
because it didnt, that means she was misadvised. 
Im afraid I dont agree with Miss G here. As Allianz has explained, on assessing her claim it 
didnt think the quote given by the repair shop provided enough information about the cause 
of the damage to Miss Gs mobile phone. Allianz was entitled to take that view, and its for 
Miss G to provide the necessary information, in line with the terms and conditions of her 
policy. Obtaining the quote was part of the claims process  but unfortunately it didnt 
provide all the information Allianz needed to assess Miss Gs claim. So, I dont think Allianz 
acted unreasonably here in requesting more information from Miss G.
In terms of the £15, I think its unlikely Allianz wouldve said this could be refunded given its 
contrary to the policy terms and conditions. And Ive not seen any evidence to support 
Miss Gs recollection here. So, I dont think Allianz should refund the money. 
I appreciate Miss G has concerns about her phone being sent away for further investigation 
and how she needs her phone because of her poor health. But Allianz has provided her with 
options of how this can be done safely and securely. As our investigator has explained to 
Miss G, for matters to progress shed be advised to contact Allianz to organise the inspection 
of her phone. 
Taking everything into account, I believe Allianzs handling of Miss Gs claim was fair and 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman