DRN-2835745
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nemo Personal Finance Limited hasnt offered assistance to make his 
secured loan more affordable. In particular, he wants it to extend the term and lower the 
interest rate to reduce the monthly payments.
What happened
Mr S has a second charge mortgage secured over his property with Nemo. It was taken out 
in 2014 and Mr S borrowed £15,000 over 15 years to pay off some unsecured debts.
Mr S says that in recent years he has struggled with his finances, and although he has been 
able to keep up with the monthly payments it has been difficult for him. He says he has 
mental health conditions and his money worries make them worse. He says he has asked 
Nemo for help but it hasnt done anything for him.
In 2020, Mr S took a payment deferral to help him through the coronavirus pandemic 
lockdown. At the end of the deferral period his payments went up and he again asked Nemo 
to extend the term of his loan and to consider reducing the interest rate below the 7% which 
was set when the loan was taken out.
Nemo said that it had previously considered a term extension in 2016. It had said then that if 
the term was extended that would significantly increase the overall interest paid over the 
term of the loan, which it didnt think was the right thing to do  especially as it wouldnt 
reduce the monthly payment by more than £50. It had also said that it couldnt just extend 
the term, it would have to replace the loan with a new one over a longer term  and it didnt 
think Mr S would meet its criteria. And it said that while the interest rate was variable, under 
the terms and conditions it wasnt obliged to change the rate to reflect changes in Bank of 
England base rate or for any other reason.
Mr S said he understood a term extension would increase the overall interest charged  but 
he was prepared to accept that in return for reducing his monthly payments. He said that his 
monthly payment was £140  so while a term extension might not take more than £50 off 
that amount, it would make a significant difference to him. And Mr S also complained about 
being charged additional interest, described as a residual balance  which Nemo said was 
because he had been in arrears, but he thought that was counter-acted by additional 
payments he had made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr S has faced in recent years. When a borrower is faced 
with financial difficulties, I would expect a lender to treat them fairly, and see whether it can 
offer any assistance to keep the loan on track.
Mr S has asked for some specific measures, which Nemo has not agreed to.
The loan interest rate was around 7% from when the loan was taken out until October 2020, 
when the rate was reduced. I dont think Nemo has acted unfairly in how it has set the rate. 
Although the rate is described as variable, this means it can change  it doesnt mean it has 
to. The terms and conditions say that the rate may change to take account of external 
factors such as changes in the Bank of England base rate, but it isnt linked to base rate and 
might not change when base rate does.
This is a second charge mortgage  unlike first charge mortgages, fixed rates and other 
interest rate products are not generally available and the same rate operates throughout the 
term; in this case, thats a variable rate.
That means its not unfair that the rate didnt change between 2014 and 2020, or that no new 
interest rates were made available to Mr S.
However, changes to the interest rate and how interest is charged are among the things that 
Nemo should consider as part of the forbearance options it offers to a borrower in financial 
difficulty.
In this case, Mr S first let Nemo know about his financial difficulties in 2015, at which point 
he was worried about losing his job  as he did in 2016.
Nemo carried out assessments of his income and expenditure in both 2016 and 2018. Both 
times Mr Ss outgoings exceeded his income. The monthly payment on this loan is less than 
£140, so extending the term wouldnt  in cash terms  make a significant difference to his 
outgoings.
And while I understand why Mr S wanted the term extension, and felt that even a reduction 
of £20 or £30 a month in the monthly payment would greatly help him, the fact is that the 
income and expenditure assessments showed that wouldnt be enough to make the loan 
affordable.
Despite what Nemo has said, I do think a term extension is something it should consider as 
part of forbearance  in the right circumstances. But Im not persuaded its refusal to do so in 
this case produced an unfair result for Mr S. As I say, a term extension of itself wouldnt have 
made the loan affordable based on his income and expenditure. And it would have resulted 
in much more interest  and a much longer commitment. Im not persuaded that a small 
reduction in the monthly payment which wasnt enough to solve his problems outweighed the 
risks of extending the term. I think there were other things Nemo could have considered 
which would have been of greater assistance to Mr S.
And Ive noted that, in fact, Nemo did offer Mr S assistance in other ways. It variously agreed 
reduced payment arrangements and periods where the loan temporarily converted to 
interest only. This had the effect of reducing Mr Ss payments for a time. And it has 
discussed things with Mr S and considered other options too  most recently a covid-19 
payment deferral.
In 2019, Mr S got a lump sum of backdated benefits, which he paid to Nemo. This wasnt a 
balance reduction  it was a pre-payment, allowing Mr S to miss some monthly payments by 
having in effect paid them up front. This was something else Nemo agreed to help him  if it 
had treated the payment as a lump sum balance reduction, that would have resulted in Mr S 
paying off the loan more quickly  but he would still have had to make the monthly payments 
in the months that followed. I think this was fair.
While Nemo has provided assistance in recent years, Mr S still hasnt always been able to 
keep up with his payments and there have been period of arrears. When a loan goes into arrears, this means payments have been missed  so the balance hasnt reduced as 
expected. And because the balance is higher, more interest is charged as a result. This 
additional interest also needs to be paid off before the end of the term of the loan.
Nemo is entitled to charge this interest and I dont think its acted unfairly in doing so, though 
I appreciate Mr S believes it could communicate more clearly about it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Nemo has treated Mr S unfairly. Hes clearly had 
a difficult time in recent years, and while it didnt agree to exactly what he wanted, I think it 
has taken reasonable steps to assist him in his financial difficulties.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman