DRN-2165439
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Allay Claims Ltd dealt with his claims for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In October 2018, Mr K instructed Allay to make mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf. Claims 
with Lender R were successful, and Mr K was awarded compensation. And Allay invoiced 
him for their success fees.
Mr K has complained that the majority of the compensation he received from Lender R was 
offset against existing arrears but Allay still charged their fee on the full amount hed been 
awarded. Because of this, hes been asked to pay more to Allay than he actually received 
from Lender R. Which he thought was unfair. Allay didnt agree and said the terms and 
conditions Mr K agreed to allowed them to do this. So Mr K brought his complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator initially thought Allay hadnt acted reasonably. She said that, although the 
terms and conditions covered this eventuality, Allay hadnt done enough to ask Mr K about 
any potential arrears he may have. And she didnt think a term in the Letter of Authority 
(LOA) was enough, as it didnt show examples of how fees may be calculated when a refund 
was offset. So she recommended that Allay should only charge Mr K their fee on the amount 
he actually received, and not on the amount he was awarded.
Mr K agreed with the investigator but Allay didnt. They said that, in signing their terms Mr K 
had declared he wasnt in arrears with Lender R, and that he wasnt in a debt management 
plan. Theyve also said that Mr K had the opportunity to read and understand their terms 
before he instructed them to act for him, and they dont feel its fair for them to be held 
responsible if he didnt do this.
Allay also provided additional evidence to support why they thought Mr Ks fee was due. 
Based on this evidence, the investigator changed her view. She said that Allay provided Mr 
K with their terms and conditions, and he signed to say hed read these and agreed to them. 
And the terms made it clear that Allay would still charge their full fee if any compensation 
was used to offset arrears. So she felt Mr K was aware of the circumstances where Allay 
would charge a fee, and noted that Mr K had paid Allays fees on other successful claims 
against Lender R. Because of this, she said Allays fee was due.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators amended view. And hes unhappy that Allay didnt 
make a claim against his credit card, when PPI was identified; and that Allay were selective 
with the claims they pursued. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
K, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K instructed Allay on 25 October 2018. Ive seen the LOA he signed on this date and, in 
signing this, Mr K agreed hed read this Letter of Authority and the Allay Claims Ltd. Terms 
of Engagement (a copy of which is overleaf) and agree to be bound by their contents.
Ive also seen that the terms that were printed on the back of the LOA, so Im satisfied Mr K 
would have received these. The terms were contained on a single page, and the print was 
not so small it couldnt easily be read.
In explaining their fees, Allays terms said We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT 
where applicable) of redress recovered relating to all accounts with your lenders, no matter if 
received after the initial settlement, whether any redress was received in whole or part by 
way of loans/arrears reduction, refund of premiums, and/or in cash. This fee is calculated 
before any applicable tax payment/deduction for which you are liable.
As part of their process, Allay carried out a PPI check. They contacted Lender R, who said 
Mr K had been sold PPI on five loan accounts. Ive seen the response from Lender R and 
this makes no reference to Mr K having been sold PPI on a credit card. So Im satisfied that 
Allay didnt tell Mr K about the potential credit card claim because they were unaware there 
was any potential claim. And, because Allay work on a no win no fee basis, so only get paid 
on successful claims; it wouldnt be in their interests to not pursue a potential claim.
So I dont agree with Mr K that Allay were selective with the claims they told Mr K about and 
pursued.
Allay told Mr K about the PPI Lender R had advised them of and asked him to provide some 
further information so they could make the claims in his behalf. Mr K did so on 14 November 
2018, and in doing so again agreed to accept Allays terms. Allay then prepared and 
submitted the claims to Lender R.
On 3 December 2018, Lender R told Mr K that his claim against one of the loans had been 
successful, and that hed been awarded £798.36 compensation before tax. Im not aware 
exactly when Lender R told Allay about this success; but Allay invoiced Mr K for their 
success fee on 12 February 2019. Mr R subsequently paid this fee.
On 28 February 2019, Lender R told Mr K that the claims against the other four loans had 
also been successful, and that hed been awarded £9,759.79 compensation before tax. But 
Lender R didnt tell Allay about this success until 24 June 2019, at which point they invoiced 
Mr K for their success fee of £2,342.35. This fee remains unpaid.
Ive not seen a full copy of Lender Rs letter of 28 February 2019, but the contents arent 
disputed. Lender R offset the compensation against outstanding historic arrears Mr K had on 
an old credit card account  the credit card Lender R hadnt told Allay about when they did 
the PPI check. As I understand it Mr K made a separate PPI claim against this credit card, 
without Allays assistance. This claim was successful in August 2019, but the compensation 
awarded was also used to offset the historic arrears.The fee Allay charged Mr K is in line with the agreement he signed. This allowed them to 
charge their fees even if the compensation had been used to offset arrears. And Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work theyd done. 
Which means any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. But, when 
a claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just because 
Allays fee is higher than the value of the work theyve done for Mr K doesnt make their fee 
unjustified. 
So, given the above, Im satisfied that Allay have acted reasonably by charging their success 
fee. And I wont be asking them to reduce or waive this. But, given the circumstances, Mr K 
didnt receive the compensation with which to pay Allays fee. So Id expect Allay to work 
with Mr K to reach a mutually agreeable payment plan for the outstanding fees.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman