DRN-2873402
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on 
his roadside assistance policy after his car broke down in Europe.  
What happened
Mr A and his partner were travelling abroad when his car broke down. He called UKI for 
help. UKI did provide assistance but Mr A encountered numerous issues with UKIs service. 
He said he had to extend his trip abroad as a result. Hes complaining that hes lost out 
significantly as a result of whats happened in this matter. And he provided a copy of all of 
the receipts he had for these expenses. 
UKI reviewed the receipts but it said they were naturally in a foreign language and it said it 
wasnt cost effective to translate them. But it said it thought the majority of the expenses 
Mr A was looking to recover were for food and alcoholic drinks. And it said the policy didnt 
cover this. It was satisfied it had covered the expenses it was required to pay under the 
terms of the policy. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think it was fair that UKI wouldnt translate 
the receipts. So she thought it should cover all of Mr As losses, plus 8% simple interest. 
UKI didnt accept the investigators opinion as it maintained it had already refunded 
everything it was required to under the terms of the contract. But it said it was willing to pay a 
further £300 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr A didnt think this was sufficient. UKI maintained it 
had covered everything it was required to do and it thought its latest offer was fair. So it 
asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I thought UKIs latest offer was fair and I said the 
following:
Mr A is complaining about the amount hes lost out as a result of the breakdown he had. In 
considering this complaint, I need to think whether UKI is liable for the losses because of its 
responsibility under the terms of the contract and also due to the way it handled the claim. I 
shall consider each point separately.
Liability under the terms of the contract
The terms of the policy set out what losses Mr A is and isnt entitled to. I think the key terms 
are as follows:
If your vehicle breaks down during your trip and it cant be repaired within 24 hours, well 
arrange and pay for one of these things:
taking you, your passengers and luggage to wherever you were trying to get to by 
another form of transport.
a hire car, if theres one available, while your cars out of action  up to a value of £850. 
putting you and your passengers up in a local hotel while you wait for the repairs to be 
done. Theres a limit of £45 per person per day, or £500 altogether, on the hotel costs 
that well pay, as long as those costs are over and above anything you were already 
expecting to pay. Breakfast can be included, but alcohol cant.
If your vehicles stolen while youre on a trip and you dont get it back in a safe condition to 
drive, or if it breaks down and cant be repaired in time for your journey back, well pay to 
bring you, your passengers and your vehicle home to the UK using our choice of transport. 
After weve brought you back, if were also returning your vehicle, well pay for up to seven  
days travel costs for journeys you or your passengers have to make while youre waiting for 
your vehicle. Up to a total of £75.
But I think its also particularly important in this case to set out what the policy doesnt cover. 
And it says: 
Whats not covered
Anything you leave inside your vehicle.
Extra costs involved in bringing home pets.
Fuel costs.
If you cant get the parts you need to repair your vehicle locally during your trip, ask us, 
and well try to find them somewhere else. We wont pay for the parts, but we will pay to 
have them sent to the garage thats fixing your vehicle.
I can see UKI has refunded the following:
£387.31 in hotel costs;
£208.21 for the additional ferry charge Mr A incurred in returning at a different time; and
£104.00 for two taxi fares Mr A incurred.
Ive reviewed the expenses Mr A says hes incurred. But I dont think the majority of them are 
covered under the terms of the policy. It needs to be remembered that this wasnt a travel 
insurance policy  it was a roadside assistance policy. Its purpose was to assist Mr A to 
attend a breakdown of his car and, where its not possible to repair it immediately, to 
transport the car to a nearby garage. The policy also covers getting Mr A to his intended 
destination and return home where repair will take a long time. The policy isnt designed to 
cover all of Mr As expenses as a result of the breakdown.
Ive reviewed the receipts Mr A has provided and taken his comments into account. But it 
seems to me that the majority of these losses are for meals hes incurred while abroad. I 
acknowledge Mr A says hes out of pocket because of the breakdown and the way the claim 
has been handled. But the terms of the policy dont cover these losses. And, as I said above, 
another ombudsman considered the compensation payable to Mr A separately in a different 
complaint. So Im unable to comment on those in this decision.
Ultimately, while I acknowledge Mr A feels strongly about whats happened, I havent seen 
anything to say UKI hasnt refunded everything it was required to refund under the terms of 
the policy.
Financial losses as a result of the handling of the claim
Its clear Mr A has suffered a significant ordeal as a result of the way UKI has handled the 
claim. But weve considered the way UKI has handled the claim and the distress and 
inconvenience this has had on Mr A in a separate complaint. So Im not commenting on that 
in this decision. But we havent considered whether UKIs actions unfairly caused Mr A to incur increased costs. In thinking about this I need to decide whether they were avoidable or 
whether they were an unfortunate and inevitable consequence of the breakdown. 
Mr A says UKIs agent told him to keep a copy of all his receipts and they would refund all 
the costs he incurs. Unfortunately a copy of that call recording isnt available. So I dont know 
for certain what was said. Its possible he was told to keep the receipts of his expenses and 
UKI would consider refunding some or all of them. Alternatively he could have been told UKI 
would refund everything. But, even if he was told it would refund everything, I dont think its 
fair to hold UKI to that statement. Even if he was given false information, the remedy is to put 
Mr A in the position hed be in if hed been given correct information. He should have been 
told to keep the receipts UKI would consider refunding some or all of them if any of the costs 
were incurred as a direct result of UKIs unfair actions. As I said, UKI is only liable for any 
additional expenses Mr A incurred due to its unfair actions. 
Mr A has provided a copy of all his receipts for his expenses while he was away. But he 
hasnt given us an explanation for what each receipt was for and he thinks UKI should pay to 
translate them. UKI has explained that this will cost in excess of £4,000 to do so. So I dont 
think its unreasonable that its not willing to do so. Mr A thinks UKI has an internal 
department that can translate this, but Im satisfied it doesnt. 
Given this, I dont know what each receipt is for. So I cant safely conclude for certain exactly 
how much Mr As costs increased as a result of UKIs actions. I appreciate Mr A thinks UKI 
should refund all his expenses. But it has to be remembered a significant proportion of these 
costs are costs that he would have incurred anyway as a natural expense on his holiday and 
as a result of the initial breakdown. Mr A and his family were always going to drive to and 
from their ultimate destination and incur expenses  such as restaurant costs  as a result of 
this. Further to this, I think its also inevitable that the breakdown will have resulted in some 
increase in costs. I think the significant majority of the costs Mr A is claiming for would fall 
into this category and UKI isnt liable for them. But I do think its likely Mr As expenses will 
have increased to a degree as a result of UKIs actions. 
As I said its not possible to know for certain how much extra Mr A did pay without having the 
receipts translated. And, as I said, I dont think its unreasonable UKI is unwilling to pay to 
have them translated given the costs involved. So Ive thought about whats a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint. UKI has offered a further £300 to cover these 
costs. And I think thats a fair amount in recognition of his increased costs.
Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision and, in summary, he raised the following points:
 He says UKI delayed repairing the vehicle and the garage had the vehicle for three 
months and never sought to fix it.
 He says hes shown UKI has a linguistic department so he maintained UKI had a 
department to translate the receipts.
 He didnt agree UKI shouldnt honour its promise to refund all the receipts. He says he 
was told to spend the money and UKI would refund it and he thinks its unfair that Ive 
said they dont have to honour this promise. And he queried whether Ive listened to all 
the telephone calls.
 He says his holiday was ruined because of UKIs errors and it cost them a lot more as a 
result of UKIs actions.
 UKI hasnt paid for all the hotel stops UKI told them to stay in.
UKI responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the further points Mr A in response to my provisional decision, but I 
dont think Mr A has raised anything that he hadnt already set out before. And I assure Mr A 
that I had considered everything hes set out before I issued my provisional decision. So I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional 
decision.
I dont intend to respond in detail because Im satisfied my provisional decision sets out why 
I reached the conclusion I did. I appreciate Mr A feels strongly about this matter and doesnt 
agree with what I said. But my provisional decision does set out in detail why I dont think 
UKI is bound to refund each and every receipt hes provided. So Im not going to comment in 
any significant detail on that further.
Mr A has highlighted UKI has a linguistics department, so should clearly be able to translate 
all the receipts. I dont dispute Mr A has received emails from UKIs linguistics department. 
But this doesnt mean UKI has a translator for each and every language in the UKI. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied UKI didnt have an internal ability to arrange to translate all the 
receipts. So it would have had to pay to translate them. But, even if UKI did, for the reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision, its not liable for the cost of each and every receipt Mr A 
has provided.
I note Mr A has queried whether Ive listened to all the telephone calls he had with UKI and 
its agents. I assure Mr A I have listened to and considered every telephone call UKI has 
been able to provide us. Unfortunately not all the call recordings were available  in 
particular the calls with some of the handling agents. Ultimately, the call Mr A refers to isnt 
available. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont dispute Mr A was asked to keep 
receipts for all his transactions. However, as I said, my provisional decision sets out why I 
dont think UKI is liable for all of Mr As expenses and I dont have anything further to add to 
what Ive already set out. 
I appreciate Mr A says his costs were significantly increased because of the length of time it 
took to repair his vehicle  which he blames on UKI. But, as I said, I think a large reason for 
his increased costs is due to the fact his car broke down and UKI isnt liable for that. 
Ultimately, I remain of the belief that £300 is a fair amount to reflect the increased costs Mr A 
was likely to incur as a result of UKIs actions.
I note Mr A also said UKI hasnt refunded the costs of all the hotels it arranged for him. UKI 
isnt required to refund the cost of every hotel Mr A stayed in  my provisional decision sets 
out what costs UKI is liable for. And, I havent seen anything to show that UKI hasnt 
refunded everything it was required to refund under the terms of the insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that U K Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr A an additional £300 in recognition of his increased costs as a result of the way it 
handled his breakdown recovery request. I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman