DRN-2814350
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined her contents insurance claim
for loss/theft of a pouch containing a number of items of jewellery and other items. 
What happened
In September 2019 in the early evening Miss T went to her local leisure centre for a swim.
She had with her several items of jewellery and some cash which she put in a designer
pouch and placed in the locker. When she returned after her swim and while she was
changing, she says she received a phone call from a distressed client, which she felt she
had to deal with. She finished changing and completed the phone call in her car on the way
home. About an hour after arriving home she realised she didnt have the pouch. She
checked in her car and phoned the leisure centre. She was on the line for 15 minutes with no
reply. She says she believed the centre was closed so didnt go back until the next day. She
reported the claim to Ageas through her broker.
Ageas had concerns about the circumstances of the loss and appointed a loss adjuster to
consider the claim and obtain details of it. Miss T provided various details including phone
records, details of her interaction with the police, photos of some of the lost items and a
letter from her employer. Ultimately Ageas decided it couldnt accept the claim because of a
number of inconsistencies in Miss Ts version of events. It wasnt satisfied that she had
complied with the policy conditions or provided satisfactory explanations to resolve its
concerns about the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator initially said that because of some inconsistencies
in Miss Ts evidence, particularly the question of proving she had a phone call from a client,
Ageas had acted reasonably in declining the claim. But in respect of the question of whether
she could have completed changing and then taken the follow up phone call in two minutes,
he thought that Ageas had unreasonably pursued this and proposed that it pay 
compensation of £100.
Ageas agreed to pay the £100. Miss T provided further evidence, in the form of an
unredacted phone record about the phone calls from her client and a further letter from her
employer confirming the number related to a client of hers.
Our investigator put this new evidence to Ageas and proposed that it now pay the claim.
Ageas said that there were still too many other inconsistencies in the evidence for it to do so
and Miss Ts conduct cast doubt on her credibility. It further said Miss T had failed to
produce satisfactory substantiation for any of the items lost.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that, having reviewed Miss Ts further evidence, 
Ageas should settle Miss Ts claim.
Miss T accepted my provisional decision.
Admiral questioned the new evidence in terms of the new letter from Miss Ts employer, 
since it hadnt been permitted to question its provenance. Otherwise it has made no further 
comments.
Miss T has now produced a letter from the insurer of her client at the time, which has been 
disclosed to Ageas. That letter confirms that the telephone number of that particular client is 
the same telephone number as appears on Miss Ts telephone records for the day the loss 
happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ageas reasons for rejecting the claim are because it said Miss T hadnt complied with the
terms and conditions of the policy in respect of taking reasonable care, she had failed to give
Ageas information it requested and there were a number of inconsistencies in her account of
the incident when she first reported the claim to her broker and then in the account she gave
to Aviva.
Ageas has cited alleged breaches of the following condition in the policy:
You must take all reasonable steps to safeguard your contents or personal property
against loss or damage and to prevent accidents. If loss or damage does occur, you must
take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage.
In considering whether there has been any breach I will apply the test of recklessness as set
out in the leading case regarding reasonable care  Sofi v Prudential. Ageas needs to show
that Miss T was reckless or in other words that she recognised a risk but still deliberately
courted it.
inconsistencies or lack of credible response
I have to bear in mind that in citing inconsistencies or a lack of credible response Ageas is
effectively saying it doesnt believe Miss Ts account that her items went missing on the day
in question in the way described. It hasnt said the claim was fraudulent. Ill describe later
what evidence there is to back up Miss Ts account, but in looking at the following issues I
have to decide whether they are relevant to the circumstances of the loss.
Miss T told the broker that she rushed out, finished her phone call then got in the car. She
told Ageas she finished it after getting in the car and went hands free.
I dont think this is relevant - whether she took the phone call and finished it in the car or
before she got in the car, her account is that she took a phone call from a client which
caused her to leave the leisure centre in a hurry.
Miss T told Ageas that she was on call and she was using a phone provided by her
employer. Ageas found it odd that she would be on call and then go swimming. She later
said it was her own phone and that the client called her on her private number. So she was
not on call and it noted her employer didnt offer an out of hours service.
Im not clear how relevant this is either. Miss T wasnt officially on call but said she did
make her private number available to some clients.
Miss T told her broker she had reported the incident to the police who werent interested as itwas a loss rather than a theft. She later said she hadnt called the police as in her
experience they wouldnt have been interested in a loss, as opposed to a theft.
There was a lot of argument in the course of this claim between Miss T and Ageas about
whether she could or should have reported the loss to the police as a theft. Miss T insists
this was an accidental loss, rather than a theft and that in her experience the police arent
interested in a loss. Ageas insists it has received advice from the police that in the
circumstances described it would accept a report as a theft. Nevertheless, Miss T has
logged the loss on the find my loss website rather than obtained a crime number.
I have to say I think both parties are right  Miss T has made a claim under the personal
belongings part of her policy which covers accidental loss and/or theft. She didnt call the
police at the time but I dont think that if she had it would have made any difference to the
possible recovery of the items. I think it unlikely that the police would have called at the
leisure centre but, if they had, there was obviously no CCTV in the changing room and it
appears to me unlikely that anyone taking the pouch would have shown up on CCTV
carrying it outside the leisure centre.
She told the broker and Ageas that she went back to the leisure centre the following morning
but she told the loss adjuster she called it.
It appears that she did both  her phone records show that she made a 15 minute call to the
leisure centre on the evening the incident took place. At some stage (Im not clear when 
morning or evening) the lost pouch was logged at the leisure centre. Ageas said she logged
the pouch rather than a list of the items inside, again Im not sure what difference this would
have made.
Ageas criticised Miss T for not returning to the leisure centre immediately she discovered the
loss, pointing out that she only lived a couple of miles away. It wasnt satisfied with her
explanation that there were a number of temporary traffic lights en-route and that it was
difficult to park there. It says she didnt take reasonable steps, in accordance with the
condition Ive quoted above.
As Ive said the general view of such a condition in a policy is that to be in breach of it the
policyholder has to be reckless  that is they recognised the risk but nonetheless courted it.
In this case Miss T says she took the pouch out of the locker, she didnt say she deliberately
left it in an unsafe place, rather that she accidentally left it. As for whether she should have
returned, she did call the centre and was on the line for 15 minutes. She could have returned
that night. She has said she was tired and it would have taken her a long time because of
temporary traffic lights en-route, and it would have been difficult parking. She also thought
the centre was closed as her call wasnt answered (although it was in fact still open). The
risk she took was in not returning that night when the pouch might have been recovered had
she done so. But its equally likely that after a couple of hours it would already have gone. I
dont think this was reckless so Miss T wasnt in breach of the reasonable care condition.
The phone records show that Miss T received a call lasting three seconds, then two minutes
later a call lasting five minutes. Ageas doubted that Miss T could have changed and got to
her car in that period of time.
Our investigator reviewed this and said it was unfair of Ageas to raise that point, as it didnt
check how close to the entrance the changing rooms were, nor question Miss T who
explained to him that she was nearly dressed by this time. He recommended that it pay £100
because he thought that it was speculative and inflammatory. Ageas has accepted this and
paid the £100, so I wont make any further comment.
Miss T initially submitted a claim totalling £3,459.00 to the Loss Adjuster. She then submittedher claim form with amended values totalling £2,871.50, although no explanation was given
for the changes.
Miss T says this was an error on the loss adjusters part. In any event its quite acceptable 
for a consumer to amend their claim if on further review the values were wrong. This is 
scarcely a reason to doubt Miss Ts credibility.
evidence
I turn now to the evidence there is in support of what Miss T said, accepting that just her
word for it was insufficient. Miss T has now produced her unredacted phone record showing
the clients number. I think she could have produced this before. I cant comment on possible
breaches of date protection as that would be a matter for the information commissioner. But I
dont think that asking for phone records is unreasonable. I note the only two numbers she
initially sought to redact were her clients.
In support of this she has also produced a letter from a person who said he is the account
handler for that particular client, on her employers headed notepaper, verifying that the
number on Miss Ts phone record is that clients number.
I think those two pieces of evidence do go some way to verifying Miss Ts story that she
received a call from a client that night. There is further the telephone record of her calling the
leisure centre that night for 15 minutes.
As for evidence of the items she has lost, I think its not right to say that Miss T has produced
no satisfactory evidence. According to the jewellers report The customer has provided
photos showing the items being claimed for being worn on various occasions. It was then
able to assess the value of three jewellery items, a bangle with charms, a pendant cross and
a ring. There was also the pouch itself, which Miss T says was a leaving gift, some cash,
and some makeup. Although in some circumstances insurers can insist on strict proof in the
form of receipts/valuations, the nature of the items is that they were gifts or inherited.
In that case I think its reasonable to accept photos which the jeweller was clearly able to
assess the value from. Since that is the bulk of the items I think it fair that Ageas pay the
whole claim. I would point out however that insofar as the jewellers were unable to assess
the value of the items at the full value claimed Miss T would have to accept the assessed
value.
compensation
As Ive said, Ageas has paid £100 compensation. I have considered whether to award 
more, but in essence I think Ageas acted appropriately in the way it questioned the claim. 
Miss T did herself no favours by aggressively pursuing Ageas and questioning why it wanted 
certain information. I note also that her employer was reluctant to be questioned about the 
matter, such that it blocked Ageas number. To be clear Miss T initially produced a statement 
from her manager who confirmed he was only relaying what Miss T told him.
The second statement and the unredacted phone call evidence only came very late in the
day, at our investigators suggestion. I think that those were two crucial pieces of evidence
without which I think it unlikely that I would have asked Ageas to pay the claim. I wont make
any further award of compensation.
To update the evidence Miss T has now produced a letter on headed paper to her from a 
representative of the insurer of her client who she spoke to on the night in question. This 
letter says: I confirm the telephone numbers match and the policy holders number is the 
one that called you and is showing on your mobile call list on the 18th September 2019 at both times shown. Im satisfied that that further evidence verifies Miss Ts story that she 
received a call from a client on the night in question.
I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas to settle Miss Ts claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman