DRN-3572398
The complaint
Miss J complains about the way J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) handled her 
catalogue shopping account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the terms of Miss Js credit agreement JDW, and Im satisfied it does allow 
JDW to sell the account. This isnt unusual for an account of this nature. And I note Miss J 
doesnt dispute the agreement says what it does. The crux of her complaint is more around 
the fairness of JDW deciding to sell her account. 
Ive reviewed Miss Js account history. Miss J was in arrears from late December 2019 
onwards. From April 2020 JDW provided a Covid-related payment deferral, which was based 
on guidance issued by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This allowed 
Miss J to make no payments for up to six months. When this six-month period expired, JDW 
moved the accumulated arrears into the balance to give Miss J a fresh start. Miss J was 
unable to restart her contractual payments, so JDW agreed an interest free payment 
arrangement. In February 2021 Miss J contacted JDW to say she hadnt been able to keep 
to the payment arrangement, so JDW agreed to give Miss J 28 days breathing space so she 
could seek advice. JDW had a duty to treat Miss J with forbearance and due consideration 
during her time of financial difficulty. Im satisfied from what Ive set out above it did so.
In March 2021 JDW sold the account to a third-party. I can understand why this was 
frustrating for Miss J. Her intention was to get the account back on track and start using it 
again to purchase goods. But Im not persuaded JDW acted unfairly here. JDW was entitled 
to sell the account, and I understand the necessary documents were sent. The account 
hadnt been managed as it should have been for an extended period, and there was no 
certainty this would change, so JDW could have looked to default the account. JDW didnt 
default the account. Instead, it passed the account to a third party as an active account, and 
as I understand it, interest wont be charged, which will benefit Miss J. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman