DRN-1077912
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he was advised to invest his Self-Invested Personal Pension plan 
in funds that were too high risk for him. He believes hes suffered a financial loss as a result 
so hes seeking redress from Aptus Wealth Limited.
What happened
The advice to place the investments that Mr C has complained about was provided between 
March 2011 and October 2012 and was provided by Mr Cs financial adviser at that time. 
From here on, Ill refer to the financial business thats responsible for providing this advice as 
Firm H. 
Firm H is no longer trading and Mr C has already complained to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the advice it provided. The FSCS upheld the 
complaint and paid Mr C compensation up to its maximum award limit. However, Mr Cs 
losses are greater than the redress hes already received. 
Mr Cs former financial adviser from Firm H now works for Aptus. Mr C instructed Aptus in 
2015 to act as his new financial adviser. And Aptus also assisted Mr C in making his 
complaint to the FSCS about the advice provided by Firm H. 
However, Mr C recently complained to Aptus in the hope that he can recover the remainder 
of his losses. Aptus didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it wasnt Mr Cs adviser at the 
time the advice was provided. 
Mr C was unhappy with Aptuss final response so he referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review. One of our investigators reviewed matters but she didnt think that 
Aptus could be held responsible for the advice to place the investments. 
Mr C did accept the investigators findings. He believes the adviser himself is the entity that 
was trusted with his pension savings, not Firm H. So hes seeking redress from the adviser 
directly. Mr C believes the adviser acted recklessly and shouldnt be allowed to use 
companies as a vehicle to unlawfully take money from his clients. 
The matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has already received redress from the FSCS as it was satisfied that Firm H was 
responsible for the advice he received to place the investments hes complaining about. 
However, understandably, Mr C remains unhappy because his losses are in excess of the 
FSCSs award limit. So hes still lost out financially as a result of the advice he received.
Mr C directed his new complaint to Aptus because he believes the original adviser that gave 
the unsuitable advice, now works for it. Aptus acknowledges that its adviser worked for Firm H. But it says that he didnt actually 
provide Mr C with advice when he worked at Firm H; Aptus say it was another adviser that 
worked for Firm H that actually provided advice. Either way, this is not something that Im 
going to be considering further as it doesnt make a difference to my decision.  I say this 
because even if the adviser that now works for Aptus is the adviser that gave Mr C 
unsuitable advice, the responsibility for that advice, remains with Firm H. 
Firm H and Aptus are both limited companies. So they are separate legal entities. Even if 
there was a close relationship between the two businesses, and Mr Cs initial adviser now 
works for Aptus, it doesnt follow that Aptus is liable for the actions of Firm H. It also cant be 
held responsible for the actions of any of its current employees, if the actions occurred when 
the employee worked for Firm H.
For these reasons, I dont think the two individual entities can be treated as one and the 
same. So Aptus cant now be answerable for the advice given by Firm H.
I know Mr C thinks the adviser should be held personally liable. But the basis of a limited 
company is that all debts incurred by the company are the company's liabilities; they arent 
directly the legal liabilities of the shareholders, directors or its employees. So the 
responsibility for the advice remains with the limited company. This means I cant consider 
the complaint against the individual adviser. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C as I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him.  But 
Im unable to say that Aptus can be held responsible for the advice he was given by his 
adviser whilst he was working for Firm H. Im therefore unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding this complaint against Aptus Wealth 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2019.
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman