DRN-4119955
The complaint
Mr V complains because Vitality Health Limited hasnt paid a dental claim under his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V took out a private medical insurance policy with Vitality, running from 12 September
2021. The policy renews annually.
In November 2021, Mr V submitted a dental claim to Vitality. Vitality sent Mr V a form for his
dentist to complete but Mr V subsequently decided to abandon the claim. In March 2022, Mr
V submitted another, different claim. In April 2022, Vitality resent Mr V the form it had
provided to him in November 2021 and asked for an itemised receipted bill for the March
2022 claim. Vitality says it received a completed form from Mr Vs dentist in June 2022 but it
was unable to approve Mr Vs claim because the information received didnt confirm that Mr
V had undergone a check-up with a dentist and completed all recommended dental
treatment in the 15 months before his cover started, as required by the terms and conditions
of Mr Vs policy.
On 25 July 2022, Vitality wrote to Mr Vs dental practice asking for further information.
Around this time, Mr V brought his complaint to the attention of our service. In August 2022,
Vitality sent a final response to Mr V explaining that it needed further information from his
dentist, and that it would assess this information urgently as soon as it was received. Vitality
paid Mr V £75 compensation for its delays in actioning his dental claim form and for delays in
paying an optical claim, which Mr V had also complained about.
Mr V said his dentist hadnt received the form which Vitality sent and Mr V himself arranged
for this to be completed and returned to Vitality in October 2022. Later that month, Vitality
said Mr Vs claim had been approved and paid  but this payment turned out to relate to
different claims.
In January 2023, Vitality paid part of Mr Vs March 2022 claim (an invoice totalling £170.00
for a scan). Vitality said it was unable to pay the remaining part of the claim (a treatment plan
and estimate dated 6 December 2021 totalling £282.80), as it needed a full itemised invoice.
Mr V subsequently provided bank statements to show hed paid a total of £282.80 to his
dental practice in late 2021/early 2022. However, Vitality maintained its stance that it needed
a receipt from Mr Vs dentist clearly showing the amount paid as well as confirmation of what
the treatment was for.
One of our investigators recommended that Vitality should pay the remaining part of Mr Vs
claim, together with an additional £75 compensation. Our investigator also addressed an
additional complaint point which Mr V had raised since bringing his original complaint to us -
about which policy year benefit limit his claim should be recorded against.
Mr V said he thought the compensation recommended by our investigator seemed low, and
that he wouldnt be happy with this unless Vitality recorded his claim against the benefit limit
for the policy year in which the claim was made. Vitality didnt agree with our investigators
opinion. As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Vs complaint was referred to me. I made 
my provisional decision about Mr Vs complaint in April 2023. In it, I said:
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no power to look into a complaint unless the
business concerned has been given the opportunity to consider and respond to the matter
first. The complaint which Mr V brought to our service related only to Vitalitys failure to pay
his dental claim and this is all Im addressing in my provisional decision. Mr V cant add-on
what I think is a substantial new issue to his existing complaint without first giving Vitality the
opportunity to investigate and address the matter. If Mr V wishes to complain about the
policy year benefit limit which the two parts of this claim have been/will be recorded against,
then hed need to raise this with Vitality directly, before bringing a new, separate complaint to
our service.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also say insurers
must handle claims promptly and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a
claim, as well as appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these rules into account
when making my provisional decision about Mr Vs complaint.
Its up to a policyholder to provide sufficient evidence in support of their claim. An insurer is
entitled to request reasonable evidence to satisfy itself that a claim is covered before making
a payment under a policy. Generally, in cases involving private medical insurance, this would
include asking for evidence that the treatment claimed for has been carried out, as well as a
breakdown of the cost of the treatment. However, based on the specific circumstances of
this case, I dont think Vitalitys stance in requiring further information from Mr V before
paying the remainder of his claim is fair or reasonable.
Mr V says he gave Vitality details of a January 2021 dental check-up and a June 2021
hygienist appointment, which were in the 15 months before the policy started. Vitality says
this information wasnt contained on the claim form it received from Mr Vs dentist in June
2022. Vitality hasnt provided me with a copy of this claim form, so I cant conclude with any
certainty what information Vitality still needed from the dentist to confirm cover at that point.
But, even if I accept that Vitality did require further reasonable information, I dont think the
letter which Vitality sent to Mr Vs dental practice in July 2022 clearly identified which patient
it was asking for information about, and I also note the letter was addressed to the dental
practice (which both Mr V and my research suggests is a large one) rather than to Mr Vs
specific dentist  so I dont think its surprising that Mr V told us his dentist said this
information request wasnt received. Vitality also doesnt appear to have chased this
information request up with the dentist.
When Mr V returned the claim form completed by his dentist in Vitality, it responded by
paying a different claim without providing any immediate explanation to Mr V about what
claim the payment related to. It then took Vitality over three months to pay part of the correct
claim. This is despite Vitalitys assurances to Mr V that it would assess the information from
his dentist urgently once it was received. I understand that Vitality first referenced the need
for Mr V to provide an itemised receipt for his claim in April 2022, but I dont think Vitality was
clear or consistent after that point in explaining to Mr V that it needed an itemised receipt for
the £282.80 being claimed for. Mr V has provided evidence to show that a total of £282.80
was paid to his dentist around the same time as the date set out on the treatment plan. So,
Im satisfied that Mr V has demonstrated that he has a valid claim.
Given the time that has passed and the delays involved and considering the evidence which
has already been provided, as well as the fact that the outstanding claim relates to NHS
Band 3 dental treatment, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Vitality to require further
information from Mr V or his dentist before paying the rest of this claim.For the avoidance of doubt, Im not making any finding about when I think Vitality ought
reasonably to have paid Mr Vs claim  just that it would be fair and reasonable for the claim
to be paid now.
I dont think Vitality handled Mr Vs claim in line with industry rules and Im satisfied that this
caused Mr V frustration and annoyance. So, Vitality should pay compensation to Mr V for the
impact of this on him. Im satisfied that a payment of £75, in addition to the £75
compensation already paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mr V
feels this award is low, but I have no power to punish or fine a business through a
compensation award and I think a total compensation payment of £150 is fair in the
circumstances.
Vitality responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr V 
replied with comments on three separate issues, which Ive addressed below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V says he hasnt received the £75 compensation which I referred to in my provisional 
decision as Vitality already having paid. If Vitality hasnt already paid this to Mr V, then it 
should now be paying him a total of £150 compensation.
I understand Mr V says he wasnt told when buying this policy that evidence of a dental 
check up within the last 15 months would be required and, if he had been made aware of 
this, hed have been able to provide this information more quickly. This complaint relates to 
Vitalitys decision to refuse to pay Mr Vs claim  no issues surrounding the sale of the policy 
have been investigated or addressed, and Ive already factored what I think were Vitalitys 
failings in handling Mr Vs claim into the compensation award set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Under the rules that govern our service (the Dispute Resolution Rules set out in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook) I have no power to consider or comment on Mr Vs 
complaint about what policy year benefit limit this claim is recorded against unless Mr V 
firstly raises the matter with Vitality directly.
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional findings, my provisional 
decision remains unchanged. 
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited needs to put things right by:
paying Mr Vs outstanding claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his 
insurance policy;
paying Mr V a total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Vs complaint against Vitality Health Limited, and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman