DRN-4139539
The complaint
X has complained about a policy exclusion that Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) has placed on 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
X has bred a specific breed of dog for many years. On 9 March 2022 she took a new puppy 
of that breed, who Ill refer to as A, to the vet. The young vet who examined A was 
unfamiliar with the specific breed and with the way the mouths of this particular breed 
develop.
X provided the vet with some published information about the development of dogs mouths 
which included advice to allow a dogs mouth to develop before undertaking any oral 
surgery. Nothing more was said in relation to As mouth. However, the vet recorded in As 
history that she had an undershot jaw. X says A didnt have an undershot jaw and that a 
hanging jaw was a normal and recognised trait for this breed.
Xs policy for A started on 25 March 2022. It contains a customary exclusion for any illness 
where a clinical sign has been noticed before the policy was taken out or in the first 14 days 
thereafter. X disclosed some pinkness outside one of As eyes and Allianz said it would add 
a 12-month exclusion to the policy in relation to As eyes. 
X contacted Allianz on 29 December 2022 to review the exclusion for As eyes. She was 
advised to provide As medical history. Policy renewal documents, which made no reference 
to any exclusion, were sent to X on 5 February 2023. X contacted Allianz again on 6 March 
2023 to discuss the removal of the exclusion for As eye issue.  However, as Allianz had 
failed to add this exclusion at the time of policy inception it agreed that it wouldnt be added 
for the future.
However on reviewing As medical records, Allianz noted the vets reference to an undershot 
jaw on 9 March 2022. As this had been noted before policy inception, Allianz added a 
retrospective exclusion covering claims relating to As mouth, including the teeth and gums. 
Policy documents including the exclusion for the mouth teeth and gums were sent to X on 7 
March 2023. X complained to Allianz the same day. She says she was told in a telephone 
conversation that such exclusions  are automatically placed on specific breeds of dog with 
specific problems.
As X wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response to her complaint she complained to this service.  
She wants  to be provided with a written record of a telephone conversation she had with 
Allianz on 10 March 2023 , for Allianz to place a notice on its policies that specific exclusions 
will automatically be added to specific breeds, and an apology for the stress she says she 
has suffered.
Our investigators view was that Allianz had supplied satisfactory evidence to show that the 
exclusion had been applied fairly. It had provided its underwriting guidelines to show that if a 
dog shows an undershot jaw, a temporary exclusion for the mouth, teeth and gums will be 
added to a policy. When a dog turns 18 months, it will reassess any such exclusion following 
sight of a medical examination to show there are no longer any issues. He told X that the 
information she says she was given that some exclusions are automatically placed on 
specific breeds of dog was incorrect as exclusions are based on medical evidence.
X wasnt satisfied with our investigators view on her complaint and has requested that it be 
considered by an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having made further enquiry of Allianz, Im not upholding Xs complaint 
and Ill explain why not.
I have to review the information provided to me by both X and Allianz and decide whether or 
not Allianz has acted fairly and reasonably towards X.
Allianz only noticed when reviewing As medical history in March 2023 to address an 
exclusion that X believed had been imposed in relation to As eyes, that there was a note in 
As records on 9 March 2022 that A had an undershot bottom jaw. X, with her special  
knowledge of this breed, said she didnt, and that the jaws of this breed develop at a slower 
rate to those of other breeds.
 
The vet who had examined A hadnt come across a dog of As breed before and was 
therefore unaware of this characteristic. If X considered that what the vet had recorded was 
incorrect, that is something she shouldve addressed with the vet or obtained another 
veterinary opinion correcting the recorded view. However in the absence of any differing 
information, I dont consider that its unreasonable for Allianz to treat this information as 
accurate as it was provided by As own vet.
Allianz therefore referred to its underwriting criteria when a malocclusion / overshot / 
undershot jaw has been identified and applied the required exclusion. Any such exclusion is 
reviewable following a veterinary examination when a dog is 18 months or older, and it has 
been confirmed that it has a normal bite following either a repair technique or growth and 
doesnt have any other dental problems. The underwriters will therefor review whether A has 
any long terms problems and re-underwrite as necessary.
I made further enquiry of Allianz and it has confirmed that exclusions are placed on a dog 
based on an individual dogs medical history and not because of its breed. Having listened to 
the telephone conversation X had with Allianz on 10 March 2023 Im satisfied that X wasnt 
told that an exclusion was placed on all dogs of As breed. X has asked for a copy of this 
telephone conversation and I think Allianz should provide one to her.
As exclusion was based on her medical history as recorded by her vet. Had it been Allianzs 
practice to automatically impose an exclusion on dogs of a specific breed, this is something 
that shouldve been brought clearly to the attention of potential policyholders, but there is no 
evidence that this is the case.  
Ive seen (an undated) letter to X from Allianz which stated that As exclusion could be 
reviewed when A had reached 18 months to confirm that she was able to close her mouth, 
was coping with the malocclusions, and that there were no problems relating to the 
exclusion. It said that once this confirmation was received, the exclusion would be replaced 
with a permanent exclusion for malocclusion.This was not correct. Allianzs final response letter of 14 March 2023 clarified that it didnt 
make sense to suggest that the exclusion could be reviewed at 18 months if the only 
outcome was for it to be made permanent. It says that feedback would be provided to the 
relevant team member.
So having considered the information provided by both X and Allianz,  Im satisfied that the 
exclusion was initially applied fairly given the information that Allianz had at the time from As 
medical history. It was applied in line with Allianzs underwriting criteria which applies to all 
policy holders. This also states that the exclusion is reviewable at any time after A is over 18 
months old. As its not an exclusion that applies automatically to all dogs of As breed, Xs 
request that Allianz be required to state in its policies that specific exclusions will be 
automatically added to policies for specific breeds isnt appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont consider that Allianz Insurance plc has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably so Im not upholding Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman