DRN-1455693
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has settled a 
claim made on his car insurance policy following an accident in September 2019. Hes 
unhappy that Admiral has accepted full liability for the claim.
All references to Admiral include its agents. Mr S is represented in this complaint by his 
father but Ive referred to Mr S throughout this complaint for ease.
What happened
Mr S was in a car accident in September 2019. About the accident, he says:
He approached a roundabout which had two lanes. He took the right lane which had 
an arrow to go straight on.
On his left, also going across the roundabout, were two lorries. 
There are signs to show the lanes merge after coming off the roundabout. This is 
where the reasonable person (the man on the Clapham omnibus) now take it in 
turnsuntil, through a moment of complete and utter madness, the lorry driver 
decided he/she was not going to let nature take its course.
The lorry driver was at fault for accelerating, and, as a result of doing this, damaged 
Mr Ss passenger wing mirror. 
Through no fault of his own, Mr S was faced with being pushed over to the middle of 
the road. This damaged his driver side rear alloy wheel as he scuffed the kerb on the 
island. 
Mr S then moved back to the correct side of the road but the lorry driver stopped 
suddenly and Mr S r of the lorry. This damaged the front of his car. 
Mr S pulled over to the side of the road but the lorry failed to stop.
It was fully captured on his dashcam and other people viewing this footage agree that 
he wasnt to blame.
 
Mr S made a claim to Admiral. Taking everything into account, Admiral agreed to accept full 
liability for the claim from the third party and Mr S was required to pay the full excess of 
£800. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to Admiral explaining the incident to show that 
he wasnt to blame. He also felt the repair to the rear alloy should be covered as it was 
damaged during the incident. They communicated about these matters. Admiral explained 
that it had considered the dashcam footage but didnt find that it supported Mr Ss version of 
events. It said Mr S had attempted to cross the path of a third party that he was fully aware 
of. So it had made the correct decision on liability. However, it agreed it should cover the 
damage to Mr Ss rear alloy. It said itd repair the alloy, apologised to Mr S and also offered 
£50 compensation for any trouble and upset caused by not agreeing to do this sooner. 
Mr S came to our service. Our investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold this 
complaint. He explained Mr Ss policy stated it was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit. 
And that it wasnt our services role to make a decision on liability. Instead, it was our role to 
consider whether Admiral had fairly considered everything in reaching the decision it had. He thought it had. Our investigator also thought that Admiral was entitled to charge Mr S the full 
excess on his policy under the policy terms. Finally, he felt Admirals resolution to repair the 
damage to the alloy and pay Mr S compensation of £50 was fair.
Mr S disagrees and so this matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
I know that Mr S has very strong views about what happened in the incident and says the 
third party was to blame. Hes also given evidence and submissions which he says support 
his view. But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only 
a court can consider. What Im deciding here is whether Admiral has acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and dealt with the claim fairly when making its 
own decision on liability.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr S that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the agreement between 
Admiral and Mr S. These allow Admiral to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also 
doesnt need Mr Ss approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. Admiral also isnt obliged to take a case to court even if its 
mentioned the possibility of doing this or the policy holder wants it to. Its also allowed to 
consider the potential costs and risks of proceeding to court. That might mean it makes a 
decision the policy holder disagrees with, as has happened here.
Taking everything into account, I think Admiral investigated matters reasonably. And Im not 
persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to settle the claim by 
accepting accept full liability for it. It considered the dashcam footage and what Mr S said. 
Also, Admiral will have experience of how courts view such matters, and the likelihood of 
success in pursuing a legal case. 
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about this and I know he believes the third party to be 
totally at fault for what happened. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide 
liability. What Ive looked at is whether Admiral has followed the policy terms and exercised 
its discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the case as it has done here. And 
Im satisfied it has. It follows that it was entitled to require Mr S to pay the excess for this 
claim. So I wont be asking Admiral to do anything further in relation to this matter.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Admiral  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman