DRN-3096157
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>ns 
(RSA) decision to decline cover for their pet insurance claim. 
  
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S made a claim for an operation their pet dog had for luxating patella of the 
right hind. The veterinary practice submitted a claim to RSA in September 2020 but the claim 
was declined by RSA on the basis the condition being claimed for, existed before the policy 
started. RSA said Mrs S and Mr Ss dog first showed signs of the condition on 30 November 
2016 which was before the policy started. Mrs S and Mr S complained about RSAs decision.   
RSA responded and said Mrs S and Mr Ss dogs medical history showed he had been 
treated for patella luxation of the left hind in 2016 and the recent operation for which Mrs S 
and Mr S were claiming was related to this. RSA said the policy doesnt cover signs of 
changes in health or behaviour before, or within the first 14 days of the cover starting. They 
said the policy started on 27 November 2018 and the related patella luxation treatment 
occurred before this.  
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs S and Mr S and RSA on 5 October 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
My starting point is Mrs S and Mr Ss pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and there is a section which refers to claims which arent covered 
under the policy, which says RSA will not pay:   
for health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet were aware 
of before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions And, for 
any claims for any changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health, or 
behaviour within the first 14 days of the cover start date in the first period of 
insurance, or any illness that develops from these changes
The claim for Mrs S and Mr Ss dogs treatment relates to patella luxation. RSA 
declined to cover this claim on the basis it relates to a pre-existing condition Mrs S 
and Mr Ss dog had before the policy started. So, Ive looked into whether RSAs 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
I can see the veterinary practice submit a claim in September 2020. The claim form 
notes Mrs S and Mr Ss dogs condition as Hopping right back leg and the diagnosis 
as TCT surgery Right hind. Theres a question which asks when the condition was 
first noted and this is answered as 21 August 2020. The clinical notes show Mrs S 
and Mr Ss dog had surgery for patella luxation to the left hind in November 2016. 
So, RSA email the veterinary practice and ask whether the patella luxation left hind 
and right hind are related. They also say this incident of patella luxation has been 
submitted as a new condition, rather than a continuation. RSA say no significant 
trauma is documented which coincides with the onset of symptoms. They ask the 
veterinary practice whether, in their opinion, the recent patella luxation was caused 
solely by a specific traumatic incident or bilateral. The veterinary practice reply and 
say The issue with the patella may have always been present but erosion of the 
cartilage would only be evident due to wear and tear.  
The veterinary practice again email RSA and say they note RSA have asked whether 
both sides of Mrs S and Mr Ss dog were x-rayed in 2016 when he had surgery to his 
left side, and if so, whether it was noted that there was nothing wrong with the right 
side at that point. The vet says There is no history of any observations recorded 
regrading [sic] the right side back in 2016 at the first surgery left side & no x ray study 
was performed.  
The vet then sends a further response to RSAs questions and, in response to the 
question about whether the previous condition and recent condition are linked, he 
says It is a different limb and is 4 years later with zero history of lameness in this 
time ever. There is no reference to MPL [medial patella luxation] on this side at the 
time of the first surgery. In response to the question why it has taken years for 
lameness to manifest in the right limb, he says In my opinion this is likely due to 
increasing stretch/laxity of the stifle joint soft tissue retinaculum (and exacerbated by 
an acute soft tissue injury) leading to increased patella mobility. I believe the patella 
was riding up onto the trochlear ridge then latterly fully luxating (i.e documented as 
Grade 2). 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the 
utmost care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. I can see 
RSA have reviewed the clinical records - I think its a fair thing to do  and its 
reasonable for RSA to rely on these notes as being a true, accurate and 
contemporaneous representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each 
consultation. RSA say Mrs S and Mr Ss dog had surgery for left patella in 2016 and 
theyre relating the claim for the right patella to the left leg incident in 2016. Theres 
no dispute here that Mrs S and Mr Ss dog had surgery for left sided luxating patella 
in 2016, and the notes support this. The issue for me to decide is whether its 
reasonable for RSA to treat the two events as related.   
RSA say:
On [Mrs S and Mr Ss dogs] medical history, we can see that he had treatment for 
patella luxation in 2016 and on this occasion, we feel that the most recent surgery for 
patella luxation is related to this. The reasons we believe this are as follows;
1. MPL is a bilateral conformational issue.
2. Conformational issue mentioned in both legs in his specific case.
3. Vet performed surgery to correct the conformational issue on both occasions in
    this specific case.   
4. Not uncommon for lameness to manifest at different times as often dogs manage 
    well, especially when one leg is corrected surgically, and customers vet describes  
    likely progression from riding up onto trochlear ridge and a later grade 2 level of 
    luxation.  
5. Muscle wastage in medical history at first presentation of second leg shows a long
    term issue as this is a chronic sign of reduced usage.
6. No damage to joint capsule is mentioned in med hx.
I can see Mrs S and Mr S approach the vet to comment on RSAs decision to treat 
their dogs condition as bilateral. The vet provides an opinion in May 2021 and says:
[RSA] state that the literature classes medial patella luxation (MPL) as a 
developmental bilateral condition, however we see many unilateral cases which never develop a contralateral MPL. The left limb was operated on in 2016 and was 
likely to have had uneven physeal growth, leading to altered joint angles relative to 
the weightbearing axis given the age of presentation. If it were truly bilateral at this 
time I believe it would have been perceived in the examination under anaesthesia 
where I always contrast left and right limbs. By your rational [sic], this would have 
been present at this stage of skeletal maturity. 
The fact that there has been zero history of lameness of the right hind until 
September 2020 in my opinion makes it unlikely that there was MPL present since 
2016 as it would have been more progressive over this time frame. It is possible that 
a mobile patella rather than a luxating can lead to stretching of the joint retinaculum 
which can progressively worsen. In my experience this can often be worse in that the 
patella sits on the medial trochlear ridge rather than fully luxating which leads to 
greater, more rapidly progressive articular cartilage eburnation and pain. The 
cartilage wear is documented in the history at surgery on the 17th September 2020. 
I hope I have demonstrated there is more than one reason for patella pathology and 
as such would hope that each limb be considered as a separate entity and not 
bracketed under one condition.  
Taking this all into account, I think RSA have acted unfairly in declining Mrs S and Mr 
Ss claim. I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have specialist veterinary 
knowledge, so when considering such complaints, the factors I take into account are 
what the clinical notes show and the opinion of the experts. 
The clinical notes show records made post-surgery in 2016 and during an 
examination on 12 December 2016 the vet says, good use of limb & normal patella 
tracking on exam. Then on 6 January 2017, the vet says, no lameness in hind 
legs and for [sic] leg improvingall ok walking well. good patella tracking. And, on 
examination on 6 February 2017, the vet says all ok/not lame at all. Patella 
tracking nicelydoes not need to come back regarding leg if no lameness occurs. 
During a later examination on 3 March 2017, the vet says, no abnormalities detected 
on exam, doing well on left hind which had surgery." Then on 1 September 2020, the 
vet notes, Mrs S and Mr Ss dog has been struggling with right hind over last few 
days. Has had left patella issues in the past  different limb. No previous issues with 
this limb.  
There is a time period of nearly four years between Mrs S and Mr Ss dog having a 
problem with his left hind and then the right hind. I cant see the clinical notes make 
any reference, within those four years, to their dog having an ongoing problem with 
his right hind or that there was a degenerative condition in 2016 which would affect 
the right hind at some point. The clinical notes show their dog has a number of 
examinations over that time  which includes watching the dog walking  and the vet 
doesnt identify any issues with the right hind at this time. And, I can see the vet is of 
the opinion that if the same problem was present in the right hind since 2016, then it 
wouldve been more progressive over the four years. And, as mentioned, the medical 
records dont show this. 
RSA ask the vet whether they had noted any problems with the right hind in 2016. 
While the vet says no x-rays were carried out to the right side, they also say theres 
no history of any observations recorded regarding the right side. What I do however 
think is particularly important is that the vet says they always contrast the left and 
right limbs during examination under anaesthesia. And, given theres no record of a 
problem identified with the right hind during the examination which the vet says he wouldve carried out during the surgery in 2016, I believe this suggests no such 
problem existed. And, it follows, I dont think its fair for RSA to treat the right hind as 
a pre-existing issue. 
I agree the diagnosed condition in 2016 and 2020 is for medial patella luxation but I 
think its also important here to look at the underlying cause. In 2016, the vet doesnt 
find any evidence of eburnation and comments Mrs S and Mr Ss dog is a young 
dog. Then, when asked to comment further, the vet is of the opinion the condition is 
likely to have been caused by uneven physeal growth which led to altered joint 
angles given the age of the dog. The clinical notes for the condition in 2020 show the 
vet is of the opinion its down to cartilage eburnation. This is supported by a note in 
the clinical records on the day of the surgery on 17 September 2020 which says Mrs 
S and Mr Ss dog, has a transverse diagonal cartilage wear line across mid patella. 
So, I cant see the underlying cause is the same here.  
I understand RSAs in-house vet team have carried out a review and believe the 
claim relates to a pre-existing condition. Whereas the vet doesnt believe this to be 
the case and is of the opinion the two limbs shouldnt be treated as one condition. 
Where there is conflicting vet evidence I have to weigh up which is more persuasive. 
Both sets of surgery appear to have been carried out by the same vet  this being the 
vet who has responded to RSAs queries and provides an opinion in May 2021. He 
has first-hand knowledge of the issues leading to diagnosis and treatment in this 
particular dog. And given that this vet was involved in all aspects of the condition 
including initial diagnosis, pre-surgery examination, surgery and post-surgery 
assessment and observations, I think its reasonable to place more weight on the 
information provided by him. So, Im more persuaded by his opinion that the issues in 
2016 and 2020 should be treated as a separate condition. I would add, the fact there 
is a four-year gap between the onset of the problems as well as the evidence in the 
clinical notes  both of which Ive covered above  further persuade me that RSAs 
decision to treat the right hind as a pre-existing condition is unfair.  
I have taken into account the points put forward by RSA but Im not persuaded these 
demonstrate the right hind should be treated as a pre-existing condition. The points 
RSA make about this being a bilateral conformational issue and lameness 
manifesting at different times are, in my opinion, general observations and not 
specific to the case here. Theres no reference to how the evidence in this case 
supports those points and where, in the clinical notes, it shows Mrs S and Mr Ss 
dogs right hind was an issue in 2016 or that lameness was an issue with the right 
hind prior to the policy being taken out.  
I can see our investigator doesnt think RSA have treated Mrs S and Mr S unfairly 
and has referred to a section in the policy which says If the same medical condition 
causes your pet to suffer from a number of injuries, illnesses or changes in your 
pets health or behaviour they will be considered to be one condition, we will not 
pay the vet fee limit for each injury, illness or change in your pets health or 
behaviour, we will pay it once for all the health issues linked to that medical 
condition. 
Our investigator says the diagnosed condition in 2016 and 2020 was medial patella 
luxation so, in line with the term above, it is the same condition. Ive considered this 
carefully, but I dont agree this section of the policy means RSA shouldnt meet the 
claim. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, and as mentioned above, I think the 
underlying cause is material here and although the diagnosed condition is the same, 
I think its fair to say this is the same in name only. The clinical notes and vets 
opinion dont suggest the underlying cause as being the same. Secondly, I dont think this section applies to the circumstances of this case. This section says RSA will only 
pay once for all health issues linked to a particular medical condition. But, I cant see 
RSA have paid for this condition as the previous claim was settled by a separate 
insurer and before the policy with RSA was taken out. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs S and Mr S or RSA, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
 
Following my provisional decision, RSA have responded to say, while they maintain the 
patella luxation is linked, they do not feel it is in the customers best interests to exacerbate 
this matter. So, they have no further information to provide. Mrs S and Mr S say they have 
no further comments to make. 
Given that both parties have responded to say they have no further comments to make, I 
see no reason to delay making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to 
uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that RSA acted unfairly in declining Mrs S and Mr Ss claim so they 
should refund the fees they have paid for the treatment to their dogs right hind together with 
8% interest per year simple from the date they paid, until the date the claim is settled. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading 
as More Th>n must: 
Refund the fees paid by Mrs S and Mr S for the claim relating to their dogs right hind 
subject to the remaining policy terms and limits; and  
Pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year* from the date they paid 
until the date of settlement
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More 
Th>n to take off tax from this interest. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More 
Th>n must give Mrs S and Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman