DRN-3328044
The complaint
Mr and Ms B have complained that they have been living in overdraft for years and incurring 
substantial fees. They say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) should have 
stepped in sooner and ought to have known they were suffering from financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr and Ms B complained to Halifax about the charges applied to their account when it ought 
to have known they were suffering from financial difficulties. Halifax says all charges were 
applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account. It says as soon as Mr 
and Ms B informed it they were suffering financially it stepped in to help them by putting a 
hold on fees for 30 days then stopping fees permanently after a payment proposal was 
offered as well as offering payment of £100 as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr and Ms B were dis-satisfied and brought their complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that Halifax should have stopped 
charging overdraft fees from January 2017 as by this point it was clear Mr and Ms B were in 
financial difficulty as they hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period 
of time. 
Halifax disagreed with our adjudicators view  it says there wasnt enough to alert it of 
financial difficulty before Mr and Ms B got in contact in March 2021. So it has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Why I cant look at charges applied before July 2016
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr and Ms B raised their complaint in July 2021. Six years before they raised their complaint 
is July 2016. And as the charges for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr and 
Ms B at the time they were being applied, I think they ought to have known enough to decide 
whether they were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from 
when Mr and Ms B ought to be reasonably aware they had reason to complaint provides 
them with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied 
from July 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr and Ms Bs 
overdraft from January 2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr and Ms B 
were in no position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr and Ms B were hardcore borrowing. In other, words they hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Halifaxs own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. 
I accept that Mr and Ms B did manage to bring their account into credit at times when a 
salary was received. But they didnt maintain a credit balance and I can see that Mr and Ms 
B were using their overdraft to pay monthly household bills and credit cards and within 
weeks would be back at the top of their overdraft limit. This can also be said for the other 
account they held with Halifax  when it did receive funds the funds were predominantly 
used to pay household bills and credit cards. 
So I think that Mr and Ms Bs overdraft usage should have prompted Halifax to have realised 
that Mr and Ms B werent using their overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As Halifax didnt react to Mr and Ms Bs overdraft usage until 
March 2021 and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr and Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Halifax didnt treat Mr and Ms B fairly and they lost out because of what Halifax did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Ms Bs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Ms Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from January 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr and Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and Ms Bs 
credit file, Halifax should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2017. Halifax can 
also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr and Ms B over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Halifax should remove any adverse information from Mr and Ms Bs 
credit file. Halifax can also reduce Mr and Ms Bs overdraft limit by the amount of 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr and Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc and instruct it to put this right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman