DRN-4279459
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the length of time it took Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited
to settle his claim for his van under his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Mulsannes claim handling agent dealt with Mr Ps claim, but for the sake of ease Ive
referred to Mulsanne throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr Ps van was damaged in an accident and he made a claim under his policy for it on
8 September 2022. Mulsanne received their engineers report showing the van was a     
write-off and providing the market value of it for settlement purposes on 29 September 2022. 
They also had the settlement amount due to the finance company at this point. However, 
they didnt have the bank details of the finance company, which meant they couldnt make 
the payment due to them. So they emailed the finance company asking for these. They dont
appear to have chased the finance company up and it was only after Mr P chased them that
they did this and they had the bank details they needed by the end of November 2022.
Despite this, due to errors, which theyve admitted to, Mulsanne didnt actually make the
payment to the finance company until the end of February 2023.
In the meantime Mr P complained to Mulsanne and they issued their final response on 23
February 2023. In this they admitted they had made errors and that this had led to an
unacceptable delay in them settling the finance for Mr Ps van. They also admitted that
theyd provided a very poor level of service when Mr P had tried to contact them, with
unacceptably long hold times and other issues, including people not calling Mr P back as
promised. And they offered Mr P £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience
hed experienced.
Mr P wasnt happy with what Mulsanne had offered in compensation and asked us to
consider his complaint. When doing so he explained that hed bought another vehicle and he
had to struggle paying the finance on this at the same time as paying the finance for the van
that hed claimed for. He also explained in more detail the distress hed experienced in trying
to chase Mulsanne on the settlement, including the problems getting through to someone,
getting cut off and not receiving call backs.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. She issued a view on it in which she
said what Mulsanne had paid in compensation for distress and inconvenience was fair.
However, she said Mulsanne should also pay interest at our normal rate of 8% per annum
simple on the finance payments Mr P had made for his van since Mulsanne should have
settled his claim and cleared the finance.
Mr P responded to say he still didnt think the compensation was enough, but he was willing
to accept the investigators view to bring the matter to a conclusion. Mulsanne didnt
respond, despite our investigator chasing them.
As Mulsanne didnt respond to our investigator the case was passed to me for a decision.
Having reviewed the case, I spoke to Mr P and established that hed bought his replacement
vehicle at the beginning of October 2022 by borrowing the money to pay for it from his bank.
And this had meant hed had to struggle making two large finance repayments as well as
meeting all his other business expenses at this time.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 August 2023, in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided Mulsanne should pay Mr P an additional £500 in
compensation for distress and inconvenience on top of the £300 theyve offered, ie £800 in
total.
I think £300 is enough to compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience he
experienced as a result of what I can see was the appalling service offered by Mulsanne. I
say this, as its clear Mr P had to chase them numerous times on the settlement and when
he did he was on hold for long periods before he could speak with anyone, got cut off on
occasions and didnt get call backs as promised. On top of this he had the frustration of the
settlement amount not being paid, despite being told on numerous occasions it would be.
However, I dont think £300 is enough to compensate Mr P for the significant distress and
inconvenience he experienced in having to make repayments on two finance agreements
instead of one for around four months, which was much longer than should have been the
case. I say this because I think Mulsanne should have had all the information they needed to
settle his claim by the middle of October 2022. And  as I see it  the only reason they didnt
was that they werent proactive in chasing Mr Ps finance company for payment details. And
then, even when they did have the details they needed, it still took them around a further
three months to pay the settlement amount. This is totally unacceptable and I realise from
speaking with Mr P that it was extremely stressful for him as a small business trying to meet
all his expenses and pay what he needed in wages. And I think an additional £500 in
compensation is appropriate for this further significant distress and inconvenience.
I also agree with our investigator that Mulsanne should pay interest at 8% per annum simple
on the finance repayments Mr P made for the van he claimed for on any repayments he
made after 15 October 2022, as this is the date I think Mulsanne should have settled the
finance by. This is because he needs to be compensated for not having funds that should
have been available to him. The interest should be calculated from the date Mr P made each
payment to the date Mulsanne pays him this interest. Mr P will need to provide details to
Mulsanne of what the payments were and when he made them.
I gave both parties until 16 August 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Both parties have responded to say they accept my provisional decision and have no further 
comments or evidence to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusion I reached in it.Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision dated 2 August 2023, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. And I consider the 
fair and reasonable outcome to it is for Mulsanne to pay him £800 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I also consider they should pay Mr P interest on the finance 
payments he made on his van after 15 October 2022 as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and order Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive 
set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman