DRN-4016121
The complaint
Mr Y and Mr M have a buy to let mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) (BoI) Mr Y complains 
about what happened when he asked BoI to make changes to the mortgage.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr Y and Mr M, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been solely with Mr Y, who told us this was his complaint. So Ill 
refer to him in this decision. 
Mr Y wanted to add a third party to the BoI mortgage for a buy to let property which he held 
jointly with Mr M. Mr Y complained that the fees BoI would charge for this were too high. He 
initially said he wouldnt go ahead, but then discussed it with his solicitor, and decided to 
proceed. But Mr Y said the next time he called BoI, he was told that wasnt possible after all. 
Mr Y said he complained, and was then told it was possible to add the extra party, but it 
would cost around £500, there would be a two week wait for the appointment to discuss this, 
and there was then no timeframe for the change to happen, if it was agreed. 
Mr Y said BoI told him hed need to update his address, and this would take a week to 
process, so would also delay things. Mr Y said he was supposed to be transferred to 
someone who would update his address, but then BoI hung up on him. Mr Y said he 
expected BoI to call back, but they didnt.
Mr Y said he had to call back to get his address changed, and although BoI then confirmed it 
had done this, it still sent his redemption statement to his old address. Mr Y said he wasnt 
on good terms with his old landlord, and he thought this person would use the information 
theyd obtained against him.
Mr Y said he decided to just pay off the mortgage then add the extra party to the deeds after 
this. He said it was difficult to get the redemption information, and BoI then couldnt just take 
payment. He said BoI then took an additional payment for his mortgage in August, and 
attempted to take payment for September. He wanted the overpayment back.
Finally, Mr Y also complained about the amount of time it took to contact BoI each time he 
called, and the time it took to lodge a complaint. 
Mr Y said that being unable to add the third party to the mortgage meant they missed out on 
several thousands of pounds in tax allowances which that person would have been entitled 
to. And he said hed been forced to buy out the mortgage earlier than he wanted, incurring 
greater redemption fees as a result.
He said BoI also ignored a number of points in his complaint about the poor customer 
service, and he didnt think the compensation paid was adequate. 
BoI didnt think it had given Mr Y incorrect advice about adding someone to the mortgage. It 
said it could add someone to the deeds and to the mortgage. That involved a new lending 
application (which BoI calls transfer of equity). But it wouldnt just add someone to the 
deeds, without adding them to the mortgage (which BoE calls transfer of title), unless it was 
ordered to do so by a court. 
BoI said Mr Y contacted it online on 1 July 2022, it had tried to call him back but didnt 
manage to get through. It spoke to him on 21 July, after he called again. It set out the costs 
then of a transfer of equity, and Mr Y didnt want to go ahead. Then in August he sent 
another online message, and BoI spoke to him on 11th August 2022. Mr Y said then that he 
only wanted to add another party to the deeds, and BoI said it couldnt do a transfer of title 
for him. Mr Y didnt want to add this person to the deeds and mortgage on this call, but he 
rang back later that day to go ahead. Mr Ys address had changed, and would need to be 
updated. BoI said it didnt know why this call then ended. 
Mr Ys correspondence address was updated on 17 August. Mr Y told BoI hed actually 
moved about a year earlier, and BoI told us it had issued correspondence to him at his old 
address during this time.
BoI said Mr Y got in touch on 18 August 2022 to get a redemption figure. He was given this 
on the call, and told he could ring back the next day to make payment. 
BoI said it hadnt delayed Mr Ys redemption, or taken any extra payment. It collected a 
payment on 18 August. It gave Mr Y a redemption figure, and posted out a redemption 
statement, on 19 August. That figure allowed for the payment hed made the day before. So 
BoI said no refund was due. 
BoI also said it got the funds on 19 August, and sent deeds out on 12 September. BoI said 
its supposed to release the deeds within 21 days of receipt of the funds and it had done 
that. BoI said it hadnt tried to take any further payment after Mr Ys mortgage was 
redeemed, and it advises customers to cancel the direct debit once the mortgage is paid off, 
explaining it cant do this for them.
BoI said it was sorry that some documents had been sent to the wrong address after it had 
updated Mr Ys address. It suggested that he might like to register with the CIFAS Protective 
Registration Service, which would mean extra checks were done if anyone applied for credit 
in Mr Ys name. BoI said it would pay £100 in compensation, which included the £20 cost of 
registering with the service. 
BoI was also sorry if Mr Y had to wait longer for calls to be connected. It had been 
experiencing longer call waiting times than usual, due to staffing levels and recent changes 
to the economy. BoI said there are other ways to get in touch, which Mr Y has used 
previously. And it said it didnt know why the call on 11 August disconnected.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said BoI had demonstrated 
it followed the correct process for adding another party to the mortgage. It hadnt given Mr Y 
any incorrect advice, and it addressed his concerns in a timely manner. 
Our investigator said that Mr Ys August 2022 payment wasnt duplicated, BoI had explained 
that the redemption amount was supplied after it had accounted for the 18 August payment, 
and theres nothing to suggest BoI then tried to take a further payment. Finally, our investigator felt that despite BoI sending some correspondence to the old 
address, the payment of £100 was fair and reasonable, given that Mr Y had waited around a 
year before updating his address. 
Mr Y didnt say which of the above points he didnt agree with. But he did say he wanted his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr Y had with BoI where he discussed adding a party to the 
mortgage and deeds, or to the deeds alone. Im satisfied that BoI explained it wouldnt add 
someone just to the deeds, not also the mortgage. And I think thats a reasonable thing for 
BoI to say, because adding someone to the deeds affects BoIs security for its lending. 
BoI also told Mr Y if he wanted to add another party to the deeds and the mortgage, that 
would involve a full mortgage application. Again, I think thats a reasonable thing for BoI to 
say. If someones taking on the obligation to pay the mortgage, by having their name added 
to it, then BoI has to make sure its lending responsibly, and this person can afford the 
lending that they are accepting liability for.
Mr Y decided not to go ahead with this option, but instead to redeem the mortgage earlier 
than planned. I think that was his choice to make, and I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold BoI responsible for any financial consequences that Mr Y said he 
incurred as a result of that. 
Mr Y also said BoI had been difficult to get in touch with, and call wait times were long. BoI 
says its sorry about this, and it does have other ways of getting in touch. I appreciate this 
would have been frustrating for Mr Y, but I can see BoI did attempt to contact Mr Y when he 
sent it messages. So I think BoI did attempt to reduce the impact of this problem on Mr Y. 
And, having listened to the relevant call recording, Im not able to say that its most likely BoI 
hung up on Mr Y. I dont know why that call dropped.
BoI says it didnt overcharge Mr Y on his mortgage. Its explained that his August redemption 
figure allowed for that months payment, which had already been taken, and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that BoI then tried to take further payment. Ive also not seen anything to 
suggest it delayed the redemption of Mr Ys mortgage or the return of his deeds.
BoI did accept it had sent some post to the wrong address, and it has apologised for this. 
Here, I think its relevant to note that Mr Y told BoI hed moved about a year earlier. During 
this time BoI was sending mail to the address it held for him. Mr Y hasnt explained why, if it 
was important not to have correspondence go to this address, he didnt update his details 
more promptly. Because of this, I havent been able to decide that its more likely the 
misdirected correspondence had the impact Mr Y described.
Ive considered everything Mr Y said to us carefully, but I dont think BoI has to do more in 
this case than pay the £100 it has already offered. I have no reason to think that the offered 
payment is no longer available to Mr Y, if it hasnt already been made. So Ill leave it to Mr Y 
and to BoI to liaise over the payment of this amount. I understand that Mr Y will be disappointed by this, but as Im not asking BoI to do more than it has already offered, this 
complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman