DRN-2691044
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont agree to extend their policy 
term under a single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 5 March 2020, Mr and Mrs J took out a comprehensive single-trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker, which included optional Travel Disruption Extension cover. They paid a 
total of £51.83 for the policy, which was to cover a trip theyd booked between 7 and 14 June 
2020.
However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Js travel provider let them know on 2 
June 2020, that they wouldnt be able to travel as planned. However, it did give them the 
option to reschedule their holiday for any time up until December 2021. So Mr and Mrs J 
decided to reschedule their holiday for 15 September 2021.
Mr and Mrs J got in touch with Great Lakes to ask whether their policy could be moved to 
cover their new holiday dates. Great Lakes said it was offering policyholders the chance to 
move their single trip dates to within 18 months of the original policy purchase date (in this 
case, 5 March 2020). As Mr and Mrs Js rescheduled holiday fell 10 days after this cut-off 
date, Great Lakes said it couldnt change the policy in the way Mr and Mrs J wanted it to. It 
said that instead, it could cancel their policy and offer them a pro-rata refund of premium by 
way of a credit voucher which would be valid for 36 months. In Mr and Mrs Js case, as the 
value of the voucher was less than £10, it instead offered them a 20% discount voucher off 
the base price of a future policy.
Unhappy with Great Lakes offer, Mr and Mrs J asked us to look into their complaint.
Overall, our investigator felt Great Lakes had treated Mr and Mrs J fairly. She understood 
why Mr and Mrs J wanted it to cover their rearranged trip under the old policy, but she said 
they were simply outside of the timeframe to take up this option. She did think that Great 
Lakes ought to have included a pro-rata refund of premium for the Travel Disruption 
Extension in its refund offer. But even if it had done so, the refund amount would still have 
been less than £10. So she felt the offer of a discount voucher was fair.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They said that at no point did they wish to cancel their policy. 
Theyd taken out comprehensive cover, including the Travel Disruption Extension. And they 
felt Great Lakes had implied that disruption of travel would be covered if their holiday was 
cancelled due to Covid-19. They said Covid-19 was known about and in Europe at the point 
they took out cover. They felt that they should be able to defer their policy in line with the 
tour operators timescales. They considered that Great Lakes should honour this deferral in 
line with the Travel Disruption Extension.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs J fairly. Ill explain why.
Its common ground that due to Covid-19, Mr and Mrs J werent able to travel as planned on 
7 June 2020. I appreciate how disappointing this mustve been for them and Im pleased that 
they were able to rebook their holiday for another time. I also understand why, as it seems 
theyre effectively taking the same trip, fifteen months later, they feel that Great Lakes ought 
to agree to amend their policy dates.
However, while I accept that by the time Mr and Mrs J bought their policy, Covid-19 was in 
the news, I dont think its fair to say that the impact of it couldve been foreseen. Thats 
because at that point, the World Health Organisation hadnt declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic and there were no UK government restrictions on travel. The resulting impact of 
Covid-19 on the travel industry and travel insurers was unforeseen and unprecedented. 
So Great Lakes made a commercial decision to either allow Mr and Mrs J to move their trip 
dates to within 18 months of the original purchase date; or to cancel their policy and receive 
a pro-rata credit voucher for the period of unused cover. I think this was a commercial 
decision that Great Lakes was reasonably entitled to make. As the investigator explained, 
my role isnt to tell a financial business to change its processes or procedures. Its to 
consider whether that financial business has treated a policyholder in the same way it 
wouldve treated any of its other customers in similar circumstances. And Im satisfied, 
based on what I know about Great Lakes response to Covid-19, that its treated Mr and Mrs 
J in the same way it wouldve treated any of its other customers in the same situation. So I 
dont think its singled them out in any way.
In Mr and Mrs Js case, its unfortunate that theyd rescheduled their holiday for only 10 days 
after the 18-month deferral cut-off. I do understand how frustrating this must be. But as Im 
satisfied that their trip dates will be more than 18 months from the date they first took out the 
insurance, I think Great Lakes was reasonably entitled to decide it wouldnt agree to defer 
their policy. And while I appreciate Mr and Mrs J had taken out the Trip Disruption Extension, 
this isnt intended to cover deferral of policies. It provides additional protection if a trips 
disrupted due to defined events. For example, it provides additional cancellation or 
curtailment cover, or cover for expenses where a policyholders delayed abroad due to a 
covered event. 
This means that the only option available to Great Lakes was to offer to cancel Mr and Mrs 
Js policy and to calculate a pro-rata refund from the date they got in touch with it on 2 June 
2020, for the remaining 13 days left on risk. Even taking into account a pro-rata amount for 
the Travel Disruption Extension, this amount is less than £10. So Great Lakes instead 
offered them 20% off the base price of a new policy, which would be valid for three years. 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law which apply to any 
cancellation of this policy, if Mr and Mrs J go on to cancel it. I agree those are the relevant 
considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Given Mr and Mrs J 
got in touch with Great Lakes significantly after the cooling-off period had expired, I also 
agree that if Mr and Mrs J do choose to cancel their policy, the policy terms dont entitle 
them to any refund of premium. I think, given the unique circumstances, that Great Lakes 
offer of a discounted voucher, valid for a three-year period, is fair and reasonable. Its open 
to Mr and Mrs J to get in touch with Great Lakes if theyd now like to take up this offer.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman