DRN-3844378
The complaint
Mr W complains about the price quoted by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W received a quote to renew his policy which he says was 33% higher than the previous 
year, so he complained. LV responded and explained the premiums have been mainly 
affected by a motor tariff rating change. They said, on their new tariff they use risk models to 
more accurately rate the risk of each peril  which meant each customers information had 
been rated differently that year. They explained theyd reviewed the renewal premium and 
added a discretionary discount and asked Mr W to let them know if he would like to proceed 
at the new price. Mr W asked some questions about LVs risk model and ratings and they 
responded and said they couldnt answer the questions as they were classed as business 
sensitive. Mr W is unhappy that hes been treated in this manner despite being a loyal 
customer for many years.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr W unfairly in 
relation to the pricing and they hadnt acted unreasonably by not providing sensitive 
information. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive looked at the renewal quote originally sent to Mr W and this is just over £100 more than 
what he paid the previous year. Following the discretionary discount, the quote was then just 
over £50 more, but Mr W decided not to renew.   
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. LV have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how 
Mr Ws price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he was 
quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other LV 
customers in Mr Ws position will have been charged a lower premium. 
I acknowledge, from the questions Mr W raised with LV, he would like to know more about 
the changes in risk. As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk 
model, but I can see part of the reason for the change in price was brought about by new 
rules for general insurance pricing introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 
January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make 
sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and 
only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr W was offered his renewal by LV, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this, I cant say theyve 
acted unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price.  
LV have described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the 
expected costs they underwrite and how this led to Mr Ws premium increasing at renewal. 
In addition to this, I can see LV did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr W that he could shop 
around to see if he could get a better price. Its not clear from the information Ive seen how 
long Mr W has been insured with LV but if there have been at least four renewals, then 
section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business 
to provide specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating   
Mr W fairly, I think theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I can see, when Mr W raised a query about the price, they did apply a discount. A business 
shouldnt offer a price higher than the ENBP and Im satisfied LV havent done that here. LV 
have told us the price they offered Mr W was below the price they wouldve offered a new 
customer with the same details. So, Im satisfied the discount they applied here wasnt to 
correct a mistake theyd made with the original quote but was as a result of a further 
reduction on the discounted ENBP. So, I think LV increased Mr Ws premium at renewal 
correctly in keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings and underwriting guidelines. 
And, in addition to this, I think they treated Mr W fairly and reasonably in applying a 
discretionary discount. 
I do appreciate Mr W will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response to his questions 
to LV. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers explanation will 
often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think LV have acted unreasonably in not 
providing a response to the specific questions raised by Mr W. I note LV spelt Mr Ws name 
incorrectly on the renewal invite. I can see LV have apologised for this  and I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see Mr W raises a number of further concerns about LV. I do wish to clarify, my 
decision relates to the complaints which have been addressed by LV in their complaint 
response. So, if Mr W does wish to take the other concerns forward, he will need to raise 
them with LV in the first instance.  
I understand Mr W will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes upset about the 
price increase given he feels hes been a loyal customer with LV for many years. 
I wish to reassure Mr W Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman