DRN-3069421
The complaint
 Mr Bs complaint about Oplo HL Ltd trading as 1st Stop (Oplo) relates to the way in which 
he was treated when he asked for help when struggling with the financial impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
 Mr B called Oplo on 1 April 2020 telling them hed been furloughed. He enquired about 
support, and it was agreed that he could make a reduced payment of £300 towards a 
second charge secured loan (loan) with a review in a month.
On 11 May 2020 Oplo did undertake a review and asked Mr B whether he was still being 
affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. They asked for details about his income and 
expenditure and Mr B said he couldnt afford to pay £300 towards the next loan payment. 
Oplo agreed to reduce his payment to £150 with a further review in another month.
On 26 May 2020 Mr B contacted Oplo to make a manual payment as some of his direct 
debits (DD) had been returned due to lack of funds. The adviser asked if Mr B could 
continue paying £150 and he said he couldnt. Oplo agreed to a loan payment deferment 
although Mr Bs DD was set to £1 to keep it active.
On 2 July 2020 Oplo spoke with Mr B who said he was going back to work in August but that 
he couldnt make a payment in July. The adviser read from a script advising Mr B that taking 
a payment holiday beyond three months may be taken into account by any future lender. Mr 
B was unhappy with this interpreting it to be threatening, although he was clear that he was 
not unhappy personally with the adviser. A complaint was recorded.
Oplo said it didnt fully uphold Mr Bs complaint but accepted that the advisers script had 
caused some concern and offered to pay Mr B £30 in compensation to reflect the poor 
service.
Mr B was unhappy with Oplos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had poor service 
and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient because the avoidable upset, 
stress and worry Mr B found himself in for the first two months could have been avoided had 
Oplo taken the appropriate steps from the beginning. He thought £300 would be a fair and 
reasonable resolution. Oplo didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In March 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced guidance for businesses 
setting out what help they should provide to customers with mortgages and secured loans 
who were struggling to make payments because they were impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic in some way. I think what is of crucial importance in this complaint is what was 
said to Mr B during the four calls he made to Oplo. He was calling because he was 
struggling financially due to Covid-19. And Oplo shouldve considered the FCA guidance 
when dealing with Mr B.
When Mr B called in April he asked for help. He said he had been furloughed, didnt know 
what his income would be and wanted to look at whether there was any support. The 
advisers first response was that Oplo were asking their customers who were on a reduced 
wage if they could afford a reduced payment. Mr B interrupted the adviser to say that he 
wanted to pay something as he didnt want to fall behind or to pay nothing. The adviser 
explained that any shortfall on a monthly payment would be added to the end of the loan, his 
account wouldnt fall into arrears, and it wouldnt have any impact on his credit file. She then 
asked him what he thought would be affordable for his April payment and he asked if he 
could pay half the contractual payment of £540.83 but then asked to increase it to £300 as 
he didnt want to pay too little. However, the FCA guidance says that, even if a consumer 
doesnt ask for a full payment holiday, they should be offered one by the business. But Oplo 
didnt do that here. The general thrust of Mr Bs enquiry was that he was looking for help but 
that he wanted to maintain some payments to his account. There was nothing said during 
this call which could be said to amount to any pressure being exerted on Mr B to make 
payments. Mr B made his payment of £300 on 23 April. I think, even if Oplo had suggested a 
full payment holiday as it shouldve done, Mr B would likely have still tried to make some 
form of payment.
In Mr Bs second call on 11 May he said the furlough had been extended. He said the 
previous month hed had some overtime payments but still hadnt had enough money. Going 
forward he would now be on 80% of his basic salary, which in real terms considering the 
absence of his usual guaranteed overtime, meant he was actually only receiving 44% of his 
normal pay. The adviser asked him about his anticipated net income and expenditure and 
then asked him what he thought he could afford. Mr B said he thought £150 would be OK but 
would see how that goes because he had nearly had to use a food bank. The adviser again 
asked Mr B what he thought he could comfortably afford, and he repeated that it was £150, 
confirming it was affordable and that he didnt want to pay nothing. However, he then went 
on to say that in the previous month hed had no money for shopping. 
Again, neither the adviser nor Mr B raised the issue of a full loan payment deferral. And Oplo 
shouldve mentioned this to Mr B, but it didnt. What comes out of this call is that Mr B was 
certainly struggling financially, and he was not confident that he could make the £150 
payment for that month, even though he had suggested it. There was no pressure exerted 
by the adviser regarding making payments or as to the amount.
On the third call on 26 May Mr B told Oplo that his bank had told him the DD hadnt been 
paid. The adviser asked him if anything was affordable and going forwards whether the £150 
would be affordable which Mr B said it would not as he had no money for food. He explained 
that he had previously agreed to £150 in the absence of his payslip giving him accurate 
information of what his furloughed pay was to be. The adviser then suggested amending his 
DD to £1 for the next month and then to review his account in another month. Again, I could 
find no evidence of the adviser pressuring Mr B into making payments during this call. Whilst 
the guidance technically required Oplo to accept a payment of nothing, I dont think asking 
for £1 to maintain the DD from an administrative point of view was unreasonable in this case.
The fourth call on 2 July was a review; the adviser asked Mr B if he would be able to afford 
the full contractual payment for July which Mr B said he couldnt. He was asked if he could 
complete an income and expenditure form to evidence that he couldnt afford to make the full 
payment and also send over a copy of his return to work letter, so that Oplo could extend the loan payment deferral. The adviser then read through a script explaining that a deferral could 
extend the loan term and there would be no impact upon his credit file. However, he also 
explained that for any person taking a payment holiday that in itself may be factored in if 
that person applied for further credit in the future. It was this last element of the script which 
worried Mr B, and he and the adviser then had a lengthy discussion about it before Mr B 
decided to take another full loan payment deferral for another month. Mr B wasnt unhappy 
with the advisor, just the wording from the script.
Oplo believes that it correctly followed the FCA guidance. However, Ive already pointed out 
above a number of incidents where it didnt. In fact, the FCA have issued multiple guidance 
notes, the first being in force from 20 March 2020 to 25 March 2020 (version 1); (version 2) 
for the period 2 March 2020 to 4 June 2020; (version 3) for the period 4 June 2020 to 16 
June 2020 and (version 4) for the period 16 June 2020 to 17 November 2020. 
Version 2 sets out, where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment holiday, a firm should grant a payment holiday for 3 monthly payments, 
unless it can demonstrate it is reasonable and in the customers best interest to do 
otherwise.
Mr B was clearly reliant upon Oplo, as the experts, to give him appropriate advice. Oplo 
didnt tell him in either the first or the second call that he could take a full loan payment 
deferral, and I do think the evidence shows they were focusing on obtaining some payment, 
although not to the extent of putting him under any significant pressure. The guidance 
defines a payment holiday as an arrangement under which a firm permits the customer to 
make no payments without being in payment shortfall. Mr B clearly didnt want a payment 
holiday since he wanted to pay something. But the guidance goes on to say;
A firm may decide to put in place an option other than a 3-month payment holiday, if it is 
appropriate to do so in the individual circumstances of the case and the firm reasonably 
considers it as being in the best interests of the customer. This could include a payment 
holiday of fewer than three months if, for example, the expected loss of income is temporary, 
or a reduced monthly payment if, for example the loss of income is partial. This guidance 
does not prevent firms from providing more favourable terms of assistance for the customer; 
such as reducing or waiving interest
So, I do think Oplo followed this guidance to some extent as they did put in place an option 
other than the loan payment deferral. I think it unlikely that if Oplo had offered Mr B a full 
loan deferral that he would have taken it as evidenced from his desire to pay something to 
increase his prospects of getting future credit. By the time of the third call, Mr B was very 
clearly struggling financially. This was on the 26 May and so version 2 of the guidance still 
applied. In this call I did not hear him say that he had actually been to a food bank, but there 
was reference in earlier calls that he had nearly done so. He did though say that he had no 
money for food. When the nominal £1 was suggested to Mr B he readily agreed to that. 
There was no pressure exerted by the adviser. I think it is at this point that Oplo should have 
offered Mr B a full loan repayment deferral in accordance with the version 2 guidance and 
that is what they did.
In so far as the fourth call is concerned version 4 of the guidance was then in place. This 
required Oplo to advise Mr B that in essence a payment deferral would not be reported to his 
credit file, but that future lenders may take it into account. Having listened to this call I found 
the adviser to be polite and professional, as indeed were all the others. There was nothing 
about the tone of the conversation which I found concerning, and indeed Mr B pointed out on 
two occasions that his complaint was not with the adviser, just the advice he had been given 
that future applications for credit may be affected by the taking of the loan payment deferral. But the giving of that information in itself was not wrong. In fact, it was information which Mr 
B had to receive so that he could make an informed decision on whether to take up the offer 
of a further loan payment deferral. Having weighed up his options and having been given the 
opportunity to take time to look into it and call back in a few days, Mr B confirmed he wished 
to go ahead. 
The guidance requires a business to take account of a customers individual circumstances 
and to act in the customers best interests. The evidence shows, from the fourth call, that Mr 
B was extremely concerned that taking a further months loan payment deferral may 
adversely affect any future mortgage application. He explained how his intention had been to 
make such an application and he was very keen to avoid there being any problems with that. 
He viewed a loan payment deferral as a negative. When listening to the first and second 
calls, it is clear that this is why he was so insistent on making some payment towards his 
account.
Our investigator has correctly identified that where a lender opts to do something other than 
provide the full three-month payment deferral, they must be able to show that this was in the 
consumers best interests. So, the question becomes what was in Mr Bs best interests and 
that involves taking into account what his personal individual circumstances were at the time. 
He was very keen to avoid anything adversely affecting any future application. If he had 
been offered a three-month loan payment deferral initially, then this wouldnt have affected 
his future intended application at all, in so far as it being recorded against his credit file, but it 
was always going to be potentially taken into account by any future lender. But the point 
remains that Mr B was not offered the loan payment deferral at all. Had he been and had the 
effects of it been fully explained to him, he may have opted to take it. As it wasnt offered to 
him he had to make an uninformed decision, which is unfair. 
Putting things right
 Its clear that Mr B was struggling financially due to the pandemic. And I think Oplo didnt 
make things as easy as it shouldve done form him. I think this caused him some 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. For these reasons I think the compensation our 
investigator suggested is fair and reasonable and I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
 Oplo HL Ltd trading as 1st Stop shall pay to Mr B £300 to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman