DRN-3766126
The complaint
Miss B complains that she was mis-sold an Additions Account (AA) in November 1999 by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B says that she was pressured into taking out the AA, it was not suitable for her and the 
price kept increasing.
Barclays says that Miss B chose to take out the AA based on the information it gave her 
about the cost and benefits of the product.
Ive looked at the evidence and testimony of both parties, and while I dont doubt Miss Bs 
honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that her memory is mistaken. I say this 
for the following reasons.
Barclays has provided evidence that before the sale of the AA, Miss B had had a free 
account for many years, and that shed had an authorised overdraft for many months.
So, I think its more likely than not that Miss B knew fee free accounts with overdrafts were 
available and that she had a choice whether to open an AA or not, and she chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence, such as a record of an assessment of Miss Bs circumstances, 
that I would expect to see if Barclays had advised Miss B or recommended the AA to her. 
And this service is aware that Barclays sales were generally non-advised at the time.
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale, so the only requirement 
on Barclays was to provide enough information about the AA for Miss B to decide if she 
wanted it.
And I think its more likely than not that it did. 
I say this because both parties agree that the sale was done in a face to face discussion in a 
branch. And Barclays has provided evidence that it gave Miss B a welcome pack with the 
relevant information about the product following the sale. 
Also, the AA provided many benefits but, in particular, a fee free overdraft. Miss B was using 
her overdraft at the time of the sale, and with her free account was being charged £5 a 
month whenever she did so. The AA cost £6 a month but then when Miss B continued to 
make substantial use of her overdraft, she did not get the £5 monthly charge and £100 of the 
overdraft was interest free.
So, I can see why Miss B may have been interested in the AA. And Mrs B knew she had the 
choice to close the account at any time but did not do so and kept the AA for many years.
Miss B has referred to Barclays pressurising her into taking the account and saying she 
would get preferential treatment for loans and mortgages. She also says she was told she 
would be eligible for travel insurance. 
I think its likely that Barclays were enthusiastic in pointing out the benefits of the AA, but 
Miss B was an experienced user of bank accounts at the time of the sale, and Barclays has 
provided evidence that she did not apply for a loan or a mortgage when she had the AA. 
Also travel insurance was not part of the AA product in 1999. So, I think its more likely than 
not her memory is mistaken on these.
Miss B has complained that the price of the AA kept going up. Any business is entitled to 
change its prices provided it gives notification and an option for the consumer to close the 
account. Barclays has provided evidence that it sent notification letters out each time and I 
think its more likely than not that Miss B received most of these.
So, overall, I think its more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman