DRN-1822384
The complaint
 Mrs. T complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited didnt come with advertised features. And there was a delay in 
clearing the balance of an old agreement. She would like a car with the features she 
expected to get and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision our text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so , I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these 
reasons:-
Mrs. Ts car doesnt have some features she says were advertised such as cruise 
control, automatic lights and automatic washers. The original advertisement is no 
longer available to check but the stock card for the car does list these features.
I dont accept MotoNovos point that as the screen shot of the stock card was dated 
after Mrs. Ts got her car this isnt sufficient evidence of what Mrs. T should have 
expected her car to have. The screen shot was supplied by the dealership and the 
card lists a purchase date prior to Mrs. T getting her car. So I do believe the stock 
card details relate to the car when Mrs. T got it. And I am persuaded Mrs. T expected 
her car to have these features.
I think its reasonable to allow Mrs. T to reject her car which is what she would now 
like to do. But not for her to have any refund of the payments she has made to date 
as she has had use of the car.
There was a delay, through no fault of Mrs. T, with the settlement of her previous 
finance agreement. I do believe correspondence about arrears on her account would 
have caused Mrs. T some distress and for this some compensation would be 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement MotoNovo Finance Limited should: -
Take back Mrs. Ts car at no cost to Mrs. T
Show the agreement as settled on Mrs. Ts credit file
Refund Mrs. Ts deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Pay Mrs. T £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience in relation to the delay 
in settling her old finance agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman