DRN-2301542
The complaint
Ms R complains because BUPA Insurance Limited has refused to pay for an ovariectomy 
under her private medical insurance policy. 
Ms Rs complaint has been brought to us by her representative, Mrs N. All references to 
Ms R include Mrs N and the submissions Mrs N has made on Ms Rs behalf. 
What happened
Ms R is insured under a private medical insurance policy, provided by BUPA.
Unfortunately, Ms R was diagnosed with cancer. She made a claim under her policy with 
BUPA and part of the claim related to an ovariectomy. BUPA said this procedure wasnt 
covered under Ms Rs policy, as the terms and conditions exclude fertility treatment. 
Unhappy, Ms R complained to BUPA before bringing her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued several opinions saying she 
didnt think the procedure Ms R was claiming for was covered under her policy. Ms R didnt 
agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Ms Rs illness, and I wish her well for the future. 
Ive taken into account everything BUPA and Ms R have told us, as well as the medical 
evidence Ms R has provided, to decide whether I think BUPA has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Ms Rs claim. 
Ms Rs policy says:
The plan covers you for the costs of active treatment only. By this we mean 
treatment of a disease, illness or injury that leads to your recovery, conservation of 
your condition or to restore you to your previous state of health as quickly as 
possible
 
Treatment is defined as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a condition, disease, illness or injury. 
Ms Rs policy provides cover for cancer treatment, which is stated to include tests, scans, 
consultations and drugs (such as cytotoxic drugs or chemotherapy). 
The policy doesnt cover infertility treatment. The terms and conditions say the following is 
not covered;
Treatment to assist reproduction, including but not limited to IVF treatment. 
I think the wording and intention of these policy definitions and exclusion are clear.
The medical evidence which Ive seen states that Ms Rs ovariectomy was for the purpose of 
maintaining or preserving her fertility.  
Ms R would not have needed the ovariectomy were it not for her cancer diagnosis, but the 
ovariectomy wasnt carried out for the purpose of diagnosing, relieving or curing her cancer. 
Ms R has provided information about ovary removal reducing the risk of cancer returning, 
but the medical evidence provided by Ms Rs doctors states the procedure was undertaken 
to assist Ms Rs reproductive ability in the future. This isnt something that is covered under 
her policy.
I understand Ms Rs ovariectomy was necessary if she wishes to have a family in the future, 
and that she was diagnosed with cancer at a young age. I also understand the procedure 
was recommended as part of Ms Rs overall treatment plan, but BUPA isnt responsible for 
paying for the procedure unless the treatment is covered under Ms Rs policy. 
Ms R has drawn a comparison between certain cosmetic treatment, which is covered under 
the policy, and the procedure which Ms R underwent. But BUPA has made a commercial 
decision, which it is entitled to do, that it doesnt wish to cover infertility treatment for its 
members. This is the case regardless of gender, and regardless of Ms Rs level of cover. So, 
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask BUPA to pay 
Ms Rs claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but I dont think the procedure she is claiming for is covered 
under her policy, and I dont think BUPA has been unfair or unreasonable in declining her 
claim. So, I wont be asking BUPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman