DRN-3354622
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection
with a motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to esure, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold esure
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Ms complaint is a car first registered in 2004.
In the summer of 2020, Mr M had the car insured with esure.
In late July 2020, a third party van driver reversed into the car. According to esure, the car
was a total loss.
For a short period, esures lease hire vehicle partner provided a car to Mr M.
Mr M complained to esure that it had under-valued his car. He says he also complained to
esure about its lease hire vehicle partner.
By a final response dated mid-August 2020, esure said it had valued the car as follows:
Average of trade guides £1,605.00
Less pre-existing damage £   219.00
Total £1,386.00
The final response didnt acknowledge any complaint about esures vehicle lease hire
partner. Mr M brought his complaint to us in January 2021. He complained about the
valuation and about very unprofessional practices involving  esure's lease hire vehicle
partner.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
esure had withdrawn a courtesy car in line with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably.
She didnt think that  before the accident  Mr Ms car was in a condition where it could
have been put on the market without repairs or improvements having been carried out. So
she thought it was fair for esure to deduct for the pre-existing damage to the car.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to esure on 9 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
As Mr Ms car was a total loss, esure wasnt obliged to provide a courtesy car.
I didnt I find esure responsible for the quality of its lease hire partners service or the 
quality of its lease hire partners vehicle.
I didnt conclude that esure treated Mr M unfairly by its valuation.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from esure, my provisional decision was not 
to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Neither Mr M nor esure has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Courtesy Car
The policy terms included the following:
A courtesy car is not available if your car has been stolen and not found, or 
considered to be a total loss. If we decide that your car is at a total loss after 
providing the courtesy car, it will be withdrawn.
So  as Mr Ms car was a total loss - esure wasnt obliged to provide a courtesy car.
Hire Car
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that  before we can deal with a
complaint - a consumer mustve raised that complaint with the firm and waited up to eight
weeks for a final response.
The final response from esure in mid- August 2020 acknowledged and responded to a
complaint about valuation. It didnt acknowledge or respond to any other complaint.
Ive reviewed esures claim notes and the call recordings. And Ive considered what Mr M
has said about 17 August 2020, for which esure doesnt have a call recording. So Im
satisfied that Mr M had made a complaint to esure about its lease hire vehicle partners
requests that he should return the hire vehicle - and waited up to eight weeks for a final
response before bringing the complaint to us.
Mr Ms complaint form in January 2021 mentioned a complaint about esures lease hire
partner but it didnt give details. Mr M first gave such details to the investigator in April 2021.
I find that esure had introduced Mr M to its lease hire partner. Mr M entered into a separate
agreement with the lease hire partner. I dont find esure responsible for the quality of its
lease hire partners service or the quality of its lease hire partners vehicle.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to do any more in response to Mr Ms 
complaint about its lease hire partner.
ValuationIve noted the make, model, age and mileage of Mr Ms car before the accident.
The policy insured Mr Ms car up to its market value immediately before the accident.
Ive considered whether esure treated Mr M fairly by its valuation.
For a car like his at the time of the accident, Ive seen retail prices in the trade guides as
follows:
Cazana £1,754.00
Cap £1,675.00
Glass's £1,240.00
So esures starting point of £1,605.00 fell within the range of those trade guide figures.
I accept that Mr Ms car was quite rare. And Ive looked at the research he has done on the
prices of vehicles similar to his. But the Financial Ombudsman Service expects insurers to
use retail prices form the trade guides. The trade guides contain prices that reflect all
aspects of supply and demand.
Advertisements show asking prices which may be negotiated downwards. So Im not
persuaded that the advertisements show that the trade guides are incorrect.
Ive seen photographs of the car, including corrosion, particularly around the front nearside
wheel arch. I think esures downward adjustment of £219.00 was reasonable for this. In any
event its adjusted figure of £1,386.00 was still within the range of the trade guide figures.
So I dont conclude that esure treated Mr M unfairly by its valuation. And I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct esure to increase its valuation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman