DRN-2003450
 
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC is holding her liable for transactions she 
says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
On 12 April 2019, Mrs K used her credit card and PIN for two purchases. Around 40 minutes 
later, her card and PIN were used at an ATM to withdraw the maximum amount. Mrs K says 
this was not her.
That withdrawal was the start of a series of disputed transactions made in the UK from 
12 April to 16 April 2019, totalling £1,626.82. However, Mrs K and her family were abroad on 
holiday from 13 April 2019 onwards.
On 16 April 2019, Mrs K realised she didnt have her card with her, and reported it to 
Barclays as lost. When she later found out about the transactions made back in the UK, she 
disputed them.
The person who had the card continued to try to use it in the days after Mrs K cancelled it, 
but the card had been blocked.
Mrs K explained she usually kept her card either in a purse or loose in her pocket, and it was 
loose in her pocket the last day she used it. She didnt allow anyone else to use her card. 
She didnt keep a record of her PIN and hadnt told it to anyone. She had not deliberately left 
her card in the UK, but as her holiday was all-inclusive she hadnt noticed it was missing until 
she wanted to buy something a few days in. Barclays asked her for statements from her 
other bank accounts, but she didnt want to give them to Barclays at first. She eventually did.
Barclays held Mrs K liable for the payments in dispute. They couldnt see how someone 
couldve learned Mrs Ks PIN without her consent. They thought Mrs K had said that she had 
deliberately left her card in the UK, in which case they couldnt see how shed known it was 
missing. They felt her reluctance to provide her private financial information was suspicious. 
And they noted that the disputed spending was done in her local area. Barclays closed the 
account with just one days notice.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint, for broadly 
the same reasons. She also felt Mrs K shouldve noticed earlier that her card was missing. 
She thought Mrs K had provided contradictory information about where she kept her card 
and whether she intended to leave it in the UK or not.
I sent Mrs K and Barclays a provisional decision on 28 June 2020, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Barclays technical evidence shows that the payments in dispute used Mrs Ks genuine card, 
and either the correct PIN or contactless technology. But this is not enough, on its own, for 
Barclays to hold Mrs K liable  it also needs to be able to evidence that Mrs K consented to 
the transactions.
There is a clear point of compromise for Mrs Ks card and PIN. She used her card and PIN 
to make a payment in a public location. Then around 40 minutes later, the disputed 
transactions started at a cash machine at around a 40 minute walk from her last location. It 
seems very plausible that someone was able to overlook her entering her PIN at her last 
payment, and then steal her card when it was loose in her pocket.
Ive listened to Mrs Ks calls and read the relevant correspondence. I appreciate theres been 
some confusion at times, particularly when the lines have been bad or when Mrs K has 
struggled to remember things months later. But actually, I think her testimony has been 
consistent and credible overall.
Mrs K has repeatedly said that she usually kept her card either in a purse, or loose in her 
pocket, and that on 12 April 2019, it was loose in her pocket. I dont think thats 
contradictory.
Similarly, having listened to the calls, Mrs K said she had not deliberately left her card in the 
UK. She initially thought she must have left it behind by accident as shed just realised she 
didnt have it with her while abroad. I appreciate the staff member may have misheard.
I dont think its unreasonable that Mrs K didnt notice her card was missing for three days. 
Shes explained that her holiday was all-inclusive and she had other accounts elsewhere. 
Indeed, I can see from her statements that she sometimes went entire months without 
spending on this credit card. She wouldve had no particular reason to be checking her 
online banking while on holiday, and she explained she didnt want to run up roaming data 
charges to do so. She then only noticed her card was missing when she wanted to buy 
something with it. That all seems reasonable in these circumstances.
I can see from Mrs Ks online banking history that she did not check her account until after 
shed reported her card was missing. So I dont think she had any good reason to realise 
that something was wrong at an earlier point. And she appeared to be genuinely unaware of 
the disputed activity when she spoke to Barclays. 
The disputed transactions started with the card user withdrawing the maximum possible 
amount of cash shortly after Mrs Ks last genuine payment. They did this again early the next 
morning, and the next. And they attempted an excessive number of declined transactions at 
different locations and for different amounts in order to get as much money from the card as 
possible. Once that stopped working, they branched out into smaller retail payments, again 
trying various amounts, spending hours at a time trying to get more out of the card. This 
seems consistent with someone trying to defraud Mrs K.
Further, the person using the card continued trying to use it for up three days after Mrs K 
cancelled it. So they dont appear to have known Mrs K cancelled it  and again, seem to 
have been trying to get as much out of the account as reasonably possible. Barclays pointed out that the disputed spend was made in Mrs Ks local area. But thats 
unsurprising, given that Mrs Ks card was stolen in her local area. Im unclear what other 
area Barclays expected the transactions to be in. And the fact that Mrs K and her family 
were in a different country at the time should have alerted Barclays to the fact that she may 
have been genuinely defrauded. Mrs K has provided flight and accommodation records to 
show she was not in the UK while the disputed transactions were going on.
Barclays also found it suspicious that Mrs K didnt want to speak to them about her other 
accounts. I dont find it particularly notable for someone to be uncomfortable giving out their 
private financial information to relative strangers, not least when theyve just been 
defrauded. I acknowledge that Mrs K didnt help her own case along here, but I dont think 
this bears any significant relation to whether she consented to the transactions in dispute or 
not. And from what Ive seen of her other accounts, they dont appear to be relevant.
Lastly, Ive not seen any other evidence which shows that Mrs K consented to these 
transactions, nor any which makes it seem implausible that they couldve been made without 
her permission.
In summary, given the clear point of compromise, the fraudulent pattern of spending, the 
likely and plausible way that these transactions couldve been made without Mrs Ks 
consent, her credible testimony, and her appearing to be genuinely unaware of something 
being wrong beforehand, I currently think its most likely that Mrs K did not consent to these 
payments. And so I dont currently think Barclays can hold her liable for them.
The CIFAS marker and Barclays other actions
In order to register a CIFAS marker, theres a high standard of evidence needed. A business 
cannot simply add such a marker based on an unfounded suspicion. Barclays needed to 
have rigorous evidence against Mrs K.
It follows that since I think its most likely that Mrs K did not consent to these transactions, 
I also currently think that Barclays acted unreasonably in adding the CIFAS marker. Indeed, 
even if I had agreed with Barclays arguments about the transactions, I still dont think it had 
sufficient evidence to register a marker in this particular case.
I understand that following Barclays adding this marker, other financial businesses closed 
Mrs Ks accounts, and shes been unable to open new ones. I understand this has caused 
her very substantial trouble and upset.
I also do not think Barclays treated Mrs K positively or sympathetically when they registered 
a default against her while the dispute was still being investigated at our service. 
I understand this has caused her further stress, has damaged her credit rating, and has only 
added to her difficulty in keeping or replacing her accounts.
Lastly, it follows that since I think Barclays was wrong about the fraud, I also think it acted 
unfairly by closing Mrs Ks account without the proper notice.
I understand that all of this has caused a considerable amount of distress to Mrs K over the 
course of over a year.Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have agreed to the provisional decision. So having reconsidered the case, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before.
Ive set out the redress again below. Barclays sent me its proposed calculations, which Im 
grateful for and looked mostly correct. Though it should keep in mind that Ive also awarded 
the normal 8% simple interest on Mrs Ks repayments towards the disputed debt. And its 
letter should make it clear that the CIFAS marker and negative credit file information were 
added in error, in case Mrs K needs this to resolve things with her other affected creditors.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to do the following:
Restructure the credit card account to put it in the financial position it would be in if 
the disputed transactions had never gone out. This includes removing any related 
interest and charges and refunding any payments Mrs K made towards the disputed 
debt;
Pay simple interest to Mrs K on her repayments towards the disputed debt, at the 
rate of 8% simple a year, payable from the date they were last debited until the date 
theyre returned. This is to compensate Mrs K for the time she didnt have her 
money;
Remove any negative information from Mrs Ks credit reference file that Barclays had 
added in relation to this disputed debt;
Remove the CIFAS marker it loaded against Mrs K in relation to this matter;
Provide Mrs K with a letter confirming that the negative credit file information and the 
CIFAS marker were added due to Barclays error. This is to help her resolve things 
with other financial institutions who may have closed her accounts due to Barclays 
actions;Pay Mrs K a further £1,000 as compensation for the substantial trouble and upset it 
has caused her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this simple interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Barclays should get in touch with Mrs K directly to arrange the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman