DRN-2635055
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money removed his promotional 
interest rate before it was due to end because of a failed direct debit payment.
What happened
Mr W opened a Virgin Money credit card with a 0% balance transfer promotional interest 
rate. Due to issues with a direct debit collection on 23 May 2019, Mr Ws monthly payment 
wasnt received and the promotional rate ended because the account terms and conditions 
relating to the promotional rate werent met.
Mr W contacted Virgin Money on 24 May 2019 and was told that his direct debit payment 
had been made but Mr W was unsure this information was correct as the payment didnt 
leave his bank account.
Mr W contacted Virgin Money again on the 28 May 2019. He was informed that his bank had 
reversed the direct debit payment so he made a payment over the phone. Virgin Money 
applied a waiver of interest charges for a month while they looked into whether the 
promotional rate could be re-applied. Mr W says that he was told that he wouldnt forfeit the 
promotional interest free period and any charges would be reversed. Virgin Money said they 
would contact him when theyd investigated the issue.
Although Virgin Money tried to ring Mr W on 29 May 2019, Mr W was busy so the call 
handler said they would call next Saturday but Virgin Money didnt ring Mr W back.
Mr W made a complaint to Virgin for ending the promotional rate of interest. He said that he 
had enough money in his bank account for the direct debit to be collected on the day that it 
was due. He also said that the terms stating Virgin Moneys ability to withdraw the 
promotional rate wasnt adequately brought to his attention.
Virgin Money did not uphold Mr Ws complaint as they said his bank had reversed the direct 
debit and so they didnt do anything wrong, so Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. The investigator explained that the call 
handler who spoke to Mr W on 28 May 2019 had said it was unlikely the promotional rate 
would be reactivated unless it was Virgin Moneys fault or his banks fault, but it wasnt an 
error from either company. The investigator also said that Virgin Money were entitled to end 
the promotional rate as the conditions of the promotion hadnt been met. The investigator 
explained that the consequences of not making the payment were shown at the application 
stage, terms and conditions and Mr Ws statements. 
Mr W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He said he was told on the 
call with Virgin Money on 24 May 2019 that the direct debit payment was made and he 
contacted them as soon as possible to try and resolve this.
The investigator was able to contact Mr Ws current account provider and they explained that 
Mr W had deposited money into his bank account after the cut off time for direct debits. This 
is why the direct debit payment wasnt successful. As Virgin Money made no error in 
removing the promotional interest rate then our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the statements prior to the promotional rate being removed. The documents 
are clear that if the payment is not made on time, Virgin Money would remove the 
promotional rate and this is what happened here. This is repeated in the account terms and 
conditions and when applying for the credit card. This is what Mr W agreed to when he took 
out the card. So Im satisfied that Virgin Money were entitled to remove the rate if Mr W 
didnt make his payment on time here and told him that this would happen.
While Ive considered everything that Mr W has said here, Ive seen evidence from Virgin 
Money and from Mr Ws bank showing there wasnt enough money available in his account 
to make the payment by the relevant deadline. Although the deadline was only just missed, 
the fact is the deadline was missed. This wasnt because of anything Virgin Money did, so it 
wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible for the missed payment. It follows that it wouldnt 
be fair for me to say they should reinstate the promotional rate either for that reason. 
Ive considered whether the telephone agent who spoke to Mr W on the 24 May 2019 
wouldve been aware the direct debit had been reversed. Although I can see a note on Virgin 
Moneys system dated 24 May 2019 suggesting the direct debit payment wasnt successful, 
the note isnt time stamped so I cant say whether this information wouldve been available to 
the call handler. Even if the call handler had this information though, Im satisfied that it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the outcome here. I say this as by this point, the 
payment hadnt been made in time and Virgin Money was entitled to remove the promotional 
rate because of that.
Mr W says he was told on the call on 28th May 2019 that he wouldnt forfeit the promotional 
interest free period and any charges would be reversed. Ive listened to this call. The call 
handler said that the only way they would reinstate the 0% offer is if Virgin Money or his 
bank made an error. But the call handler did put a block on the interest being charged for a 
month which was a fair step for Virgin Money to take for Mr W.
While Virgin Money have acknowledged they didnt give Mr W a call back when they said 
would, I dont think that wouldve changed anything here, for the reasons Ive already given. 
Virgin Money said they would have reinstated the promotional rate if this had been an error 
on their part or Mr Ws bank. But because it wasnt, Im not persuaded Virgin Money have 
treated him unfairly. It follows that I wont be asking Virgin Money to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman