DRN-2174806
The complaint
Miss K complains that she hasnt had access to her internet banking for her account held 
with TSB Bank Plc.
What happened
Miss K has a current account with TSB. In 2018, she wasnt able to log on to her internet 
banking. Miss K complained to TSB and it upheld her complaint. TSB paid Miss K a total of 
£100 compensation.
Miss K continued to have issues logging on to her internet banking. And she continued to 
contact TSB but the issue wasnt resolved. Miss K complained that shed incurred charges 
due to not being able to access her account online. TSB refunded a total of £112 in charges. 
But the issue wasnt resolved. TSB paid Miss K a further £50 for the inconvenience but she 
still wasnt able to access her account.
Our investigator found that Miss K had been de-registered from online banking and hadnt 
re-registered. This happened during one of the attempts to fix the issue. TSB offered a 
further £50 for this issue which our investigator felt was fair.
Miss K disagreed. She explained that the compensation wasnt high enough, and that her 
credit file has been negatively impacted by these issues. Our investigator felt that TSB had 
done enough. She said there wasnt any evidence to suggest that TSB had affected Miss Ks 
credit file. And that the arrears that were showing on her file were due to Miss K not paying 
her bills. Our investigator felt that there wouldve been other ways for Miss K to pay those 
bills without access to her internet banking. The investigator did acknowledge that more 
couldve been done by TSB to try to resolve the issue, but that the total compensation of 
£200 offered was fair and reasonable.
Miss K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K has submitted a number of points with why she feels TSB hasnt done enough. Whilst 
I havent addressed all of these specifically, Ive considered all the points carefully. Having 
done so, I think the offer that TSB has made is fair. Ill explain why.
Its clear that Miss K has had serious difficulties in accessing her online banking. Something 
that wouldve been very inconvenient for her. I can also see she tried multiple times to get 
this resolved with TSB over phone calls and visits to branches. This must have been very 
frustrating. But I think the total compensation that TSB has offered for this is fair.
Miss Ks account wasnt blocked, which means she was still able to use it whilst she didnt 
have access to her online banking. Because of this, I dont think TSB has led her to missing 
payments. I do understand that Miss K had to contact TSB to transfer money between her 
savings and current account to pay bills which wouldve been frustrating, but she was able to 
contact TSB to do this. And it is Miss Ks responsibility to ensure theres enough money in 
her account to cover her bills. I also think its likely that Miss Ks bills could be paid using her 
debit card which she had and appeared to be working at the time. As its the non-payment of 
these bills that are affecting Miss Ks credit score, I dont think TSB is at fault for this.
I do think TSB couldve done more than it did. There was a period of nine months where 
Miss K wasnt able to access her online account. I note now that Miss K doesnt want to 
register again for online banking, so Ive looked at what TSB did during those nine months.
When the situation was first raised in 2018 I can see TSB explored whether it may be an 
issue with Miss Ks device rather than a system issue. TSB said it also understood that 
Miss K could access her account using her mobile phone app. It asked Miss K to go to 
branch to try to log on and this failed as well. I can see it paid Miss K £100 for this. I know 
Miss K was unhappy it then closed her complaint but it continued to look for a solution when 
she asked it to reopen the complaint.
TSB also refunded £112 of charges to Miss K after she said she felt this was caused by her 
lack of access to her internet banking. Although I note that Miss K had also experienced 
charges before she wasnt able to access her internet banking. So, I cant be sure that these 
were solely due to her lack of access but TSB chose to refund these charges to her so I 
dont think it was acting unreasonably when Miss K told it about the problems she 
experienced. I can also see TSB gave Miss K a further £50 compensation when she said 
she was abroad and couldnt access her account online.
TSB tried to de-register and then register Miss K for internet banking a few times to try and 
fix the solution. The latest time it did this it appears the line was cut off before it was able to 
re-register the account. I cant see TSB tried to call Miss K back when this happened. I think 
it wouldve been reasonable for TSB to have done more here. However, its unknown 
whether this wouldve resolved the issue given Miss K no longer wants to register for online 
banking. TSB has since offered a further £50 for this error and I think this is fair.
Its difficult at this stage to see why Miss K couldnt access her online banking, and I do think 
there were times that TSB couldve done more to contact her about the issue. But I think the 
total of £200 compensation offered is fair and reasonable. TSB offered a range of possible 
solutions to Miss K, and whilst she wasnt able to access her internet banking, she did have 
access to her account and was able to use this throughout the time she couldnt access it 
online.
Miss K has said the biggest issue has been the impact on her credit file. But I dont think 
TSB has caused the issues with her credit file. It hasnt recorded any adverse information on 
her file. The only adverse information has been entered by her creditors because she is in 
arrears. And as Ive explained it is Miss Ks responsibility to ensure payments are made to 
creditors and I dont think her lack of access to internet banking wouldve prevented her 
making these payments.
Putting things right
TSB Bank Plc should pay Miss K the additional £50 it has offered to bring to total 
compensation to £200.
My final decisionThe offer TSB Bank Plc has made is fair. It should now pay Miss K the additional £50 to 
bring the total compensation to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman