DRN-1676718
 
The complaint
Mr K says Ipswich Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr K took out a PPI policy in 1995 in one of the societys branches at the same time as he 
applied for a mortgage. It gave him cover against accident, sickness and unemployment. He 
paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed saying 
Ipswich Building Society never explained the policy in detail to him so it was mis-sold. He 
also said there were factual inaccuracies relating to the cost and dates of the policy in the 
recommendation. I note the adjudicator subsequently clarified the cost and date information 
he relied on, and why, in his email of 3 March 2020. The complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Ipswich Building Society sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Ipswich Building Society doesnt have the paperwork from Mr Ks sale but it has provided a 
sample of the application form it says Mr K would have completed. Theres nothing on that 
form that I think could reasonably have led him to believe the PPI was mandatory, and he 
would have had to sign separately to take it out. In addition, it seems Mr K acknowledges he 
knows he took out the policy  albeit saying he was misled and didnt have enough 
information, but I will cover that point later.
So, overall, I think its most likely Ipswich Building Society made it clear the PPI was optional 
and Mr K agreed to take it out.  
Ipswich Building Society recommended the PPI to Mr K. This means it had to make sure it 
was right for him. Based on what I know of his circumstances at the time I think it was 
suitable. Mr K was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract he had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So he wouldnt have been 
affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mr K told us he was entitled to at least 12 weeks sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident and 
sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 months' redundancy cover. This would 
have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment he received from his 
employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Mr K said he had 
savings worth at least six months salary but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. 
He said he had strong family support but thats not suitable alternative protection, its not 
guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change. Overall, given the serious 
consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against his home, I think the policy would 
have been useful if Mr K was sick or lost his job.
And whilst Mr K has said he was looking to keep costs low, Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
policy was unaffordable for him at the time of the sale. 
Ipswich Building Society also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Mr K says the policy was never properly explained and on that basis it was mis-
sold. I agree its possible Ipswich Building Society didnt give Mr K all the details it should 
have. But what I need to decide is if Mr K lost out because of this  so would he have made 
a different decision with better information? And on balance, for the same reasons I find the 
policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed his decision. I say this 
as Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations 
(such as pre-existing medical conditions or the type of employment contract he was on) and 
the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think Mr K lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman