DRN-1548223
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) have invoiced her for a 
settlement fee following a successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Mrs Rs complaint has been raised by her daughter as a representative. For ease of 
reference, I will refer to them both as Mrs R in this decision.
What happened
Mrs R initially authorised WFAC to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI in 2016. WFAC submitted 
a claim to Lender B in August of that year. Lender B responded saying Mrs R had received a 
response to that claim in 2012, where shed been offered a refund. So, WFAC took no 
further action.
In February 2019, Lender B wrote to Mrs R and WFAC to explain they were going to re-
investigate the claim as theyd become aware that theyd made errors on similar claims in 
the past. Mrs R says this re-investigation was instigated by her contacting Lender B directly.
WFAC wrote to Mrs R requesting a new letter of authority (LOA) as theyre usually only valid 
for six months, and they only held the original document from 2016. Mrs R didnt return this 
LOA as she said she didnt want WFAC to be involved in the claim any further.
In April, Lender B upheld Mrs Rs claim and sent the offer letter to both Mrs R and WFAC. 
WFAC invoiced Mrs R for their settlement fee, totalling £732.74. Mrs R paid the fee under 
duress as she was worried WFAC might take further action to collect the amount. But she 
also raised a complaint as she didnt think the fee should be payable. She thought WFAC 
had stopped acting for her in 2016 so shouldnt be entitled to any of the refund she received. 
She was also unhappy with the way WFAC had chased her for their fee.
WFAC responded saying they felt their fees were due and that the issue was caused by 
Lender B responding incorrectly in 2016. They recognised that Mrs R may have contacted 
Lender B but maintained their fees were payable under the terms of the agreement. They 
also apologised for any worry they caused Mrs R when chasing their fee. Mrs R remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought as the successful 
claim had initially been submitted by WFAC in 2016, and Lender B had admitted they made 
an error originally, theyd acted reasonably when invoicing Mrs R for their fee. She 
recognised WFAC had apologised for any worry theyd caused when asking for their fee and 
didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mrs R wasnt happy with this so her 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
I understand Mrs Rs concerns regarding WFACs fee as there was a period of almost three 
years when she had no contact with the company. I understand why Mrs R would assume 
that any agreement she entered into had ended and because of this, why she doesnt think 
its fair for WFAC to charge her for their settlement fee. But for me to decide that WFACs fee 
shouldnt be paid, Id need to be satisfied that WFAC were not involved in the refund Lender 
B awarded Mrs R. And on this occasion, I dont think this is the case.
Mrs R instructed WFAC to pursue the claim with Lender B in 2016. WFAC submitted and 
pursued this claim as Id expect. Lender B responded saying theyd already decided the 
claim in 2012 and that Mrs R had received a refund. As Lender B had already made an offer 
in 2012, WFAC had no way to progress the claim any further as the original decision fell 
outside of the time limits to submit the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS). 
So, I think WFAC acted reasonably by taking no further action at that time.
But in 2019, Lender B re-opened the claim to investigate it again. Mrs R has said this was 
down to her contacting Lender B directly. But I havent seen evidence that shows this. The 
letter Lender B sent to both Mrs R and WFAC explained As part of our continuous 
improvement activity within PPI, we identified that in a small proportion of enquiries we gave 
inaccurate responses. Lender B dont mention any contact they had with Mrs R after their 
initial response. So, I think its most likely that the claim was re-opened after Lender B had 
conducted an internal view and realised they made an error.
The letter also explained You previously contacted (WFAC) to act on your behalf regarding 
PPI as a request was submitted. This satisfies me that the original claim was submitted by 
WFAC. Without that initial submission, I dont think the claim wouldve been logged with 
Lender B for them to pick up in their own internal review. So, I think the work WFAC 
undertook to submit Mrs Rs claim has led to the PPI refund that she received.
Ive then considered whether I think its fair that WFAC have charged their settlement fee 
considering the length of time it took between their original submission and the eventual 
refund. To do this, Ive considered whether WFAC did anything wrong that led to a delay. 
And I dont think it has.
Lender B have admitted they made an error in 2016 when they responded to the original 
claim submitted by WFAC. As Lender B explained, incorrectly, that an offer had already 
been made and there were no further PPI policies attached, I dont think WFAC couldve 
progressed the claim any further. So, I dont think they did anything wrong by taking no 
further action. Even so, I note they did write to Mrs R in August 2016 asking her to contact 
them if she had any objections to Lender Bs decision. I cant see that she did.
Had Lender B responded correctly, Mrs R wouldve received a refund in 2016 and WFAC 
wouldve invoiced Mrs R for her fee. So, the three-year delay in receiving a refund was the 
fault of Lender B, not WFAC. For this reason, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that 
WFAC are no longer entitled to a fee that shouldve been payable in 2016 had Lender B not 
made an error.
That being said, I do understand why Mrs R thought that WFAC were no longer representing 
her when she decided not to return the new LOA that they sent. But I think WFAC were 
acting on Mrs Rs best interests to ensure they were able to handle any further issues with 
the claim on her behalf. In this situation, Lender B continued to liaise with WFAC under the 
previous LOA. I must stress that even without an up to date LOA, Mrs R was still in an agreement with WFAC for any claims they submitted on her behalf. Its only if Mrs R 
cancelled the agreement that I would consider the agreement to have ended and Ive seen 
no evidence of a cancellation.
I also recognise the worry Mrs R wouldve been caused when she received the invoice for 
WFACs settlement fee when she thought they were no longer representing her. I 
understand this came at a difficult time for her personally. But, as Ive explained, I think 
WFAC were reasonable to ask Mrs R for payment. I understand Mrs R feels as though she 
was tricked into payment by being threatened with bailiffs. Although Id expect WFAC to 
explain the potential implications that come with not paying the settlement fee, I can 
understand why this would seem threatening. But as I think the fee was due, and as WFAC 
have apologised for any undue worry this caused, I dont think they need to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about We Fight Any Claim 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman