DRN-2007269
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) has charged him
a late fee, deducted the loyalty points hed earned during the preceding month, and recorded
a late payment on his credit file. But he says his payment wasnt late.
What happened
Mr W said he paid the balance due on his statement dated 24 March on 24 April. He said
hed looked carefully at the terms of his account, and he thought his payment wasnt due
until the date that his next statement was issued. So he didnt think he had paid late. Hed
paid on the last day for payment, not after that. But AmEx had treated this as a late payment.
It had charged him a late fee, applied a late payment marker to his credit record, and
removed all his AmEx points for that statement period.
Mr W said the terms of his account allowed him to pay up until the end of the day on the 24th
of each month. He argued his statement wasnt issued to him until the 25th. And in this
instance, hed paid at 22.30 on 24 April. He showed us a payment received alert from
AmEx timed for that evening. He said hed tried to explain things to AmEx and to get it to
change its mind, but it wouldnt. He just wanted AmEx to accept hed paid on time.
Amex said Mr W had paid late. It set out for our service a complicated argument detailing
when Mr Ws statement was issued and when his payment would have been received. It
thought its terms provided for all the steps it had taken as a result. It didnt think it had done
anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr W had paid late
according to the terms of his account. The new terms didnt allow him to delay payment until
the date the next months statement was issued. And even if he was looking at the old terms,
our investigator still thought the payment was made too late in the day to count. So our
investigator said Amex was entitled to record a late payment on Mr Ws credit file, to charge
a late fee, and to deduct points earned. He didnt think AmEx had acted unfairly.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators interpretation of the old terms on his account. He
thought hed paid on time. And he said there were no new terms for his card. He had a
charge card, AmEx had only updated the terms for its credit card. Mr W said hed received
email confirmation that his payment had been received, and it was AmExs practice to apply
credits straight away. He said AmEx didnt have business hours, so it would be meaningless
anyway to say that his payment shouldve been received in business hours.
Mr W still thought his terms meant he could pay by the end of 24 April. And he had done. So
he didnt think AmEx had acted fairly. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint,
so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr Ws card is a charge card. The balance has to be paid in full each month. His 
statement sets out a date when the payment is due. Mr Ws March statement asked 
him to pay £14,496.93 by 6 April. He didnt do that.
Mr W sent us terms which he said were in force when he agreed to the card. Those 
say that a later payment fee is due if you do not pay the full outstanding balance 
shown on your statement within 30 days of your statement date and again if you 
have not paid within 60 days of your statement date. He also sent us some 2017 
terms which said £12 is payable each time you do not pay your Payment Due by the 
date that your next months statement is issued, provided your Payment Due is at 
least £12. Both these sets of terms said that his payment was due by the date set 
out on his statement. So, under these old terms, theres a question over whether 
Amex was entitled to charge a late fee.
Amex says its terms and conditions have changed. Its entitled to change those, as 
long as it gives Mr W adequate notice.
Amex says the sections Mr W has referred to no longer appear in its terms and 
conditions. Its shown us a letter it sent to charge card holders in 2018, which 
includes a link to the new terms for his account. This letter doesnt refer expressly to 
gold card holders, but it seems to cover important changes for all card holders. I think 
its likely this letter was sent to Mr W. The new terms can be viewed at 
americanexpress.com/uk/newterms2. I think its these terms I have to consider, when 
Im deciding if Amex has acted fairly and reasonably. I dont think the old terms that 
Mr W referred to apply any more.
The recent terms say You must repay the full amount you owe as shown on your 
statement each month by the payment due date. Im satisfied that, for the payment 
shown on Mr Ws March 2019 statement, that date was 6 April 2019. Mr W didnt 
make a payment by then. So, under the terms which currently apply to his account, 
his April payment was late.
The terms set out a number of steps that AmEx can take in response to a late 
payment. They include provision to charge a late payment. The recent terms say 
simply that AmEx can charge this ...if youre late in paying off the full amount you 
owe each month. Because Mr W didnt pay by the payment due date, I think Amex 
was entitled to charge him £12. 
The terms also include a warning about the consequences of missing payments. 
That says missing payments could mean your credit rating may be affected. I think 
that means AmEx can record a late payment marker when Mr W doesnt make his 
payment by the payment due date.
The terms provide that any card benefits, such as the points Mr W accrues each 
month, are subject to separate terms and conditions. Mr W sent us the original terms 
he received when he signed up to the card. Those say If you miss a monthly 
payment on your Card Account, the Points that you have earned in the previous 
month will be forfeited. Amex told us the card benefits terms were also updated at 
the same time as the main terms of the account. But I can see this provision hasnt 
changed. So I think that AmEx is entitled to remove the points that Mr W earned in 
the previous month, because his payment was late.Ive considered this complaint carefully, and I dont think that Mr W had paid his April
payment in full by the Payment Due date. I think the terms of his account allow 
AmEx, in these circumstances, to charge a late payment fee, to apply a late payment 
marker to his credit file, and to remove points earned in the previous month. So I 
dont think AmEx did anything wrong when it took those steps.
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
AmEx said it had nothing further to add. Mr W didnt reply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman