DRN-2878778
The complaint
Mr F complains about the clarity of the terms and conditions of his dental insurance policy, 
which is provided by BUPA Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Unfortunately, Mr F had an accident and injured a tooth. He contacted BUPA to ask for
information about what benefits his policy provided and was told that any treatment for the
affected tooth would be covered as dental injury treatment, subject to the policy limits.
During this call, Mr F asked what would happen if he needed an implant. BUPAs adviser
told Mr F that she wasnt sure whether implants were covered as dental injury treatment
and shed need to doublecheck.
Mr F telephoned BUPA again the following day and was told whatever treatment was
needed to restore the injured tooth would be covered under his policy.
BUPA subsequently told Mr F that implants werent covered as dental injury treatment and
Mr F complained to BUPA. He said the information about dental injury treatment in his
policy was set out in an ambiguous way and that it wasnt clear to the first adviser he spoke
to whether implants were covered either.
BUPA sent Mr F a final response letter saying implants were excluded from cover under any
and all circumstances, and it didnt think its membership guide was unclear. However, BUPA
said it had missed the opportunity to be completely clear during its first call with Mr F and
paid him £250 compensation in respect of this.
As Mr F remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think it was clear from
Mr Fs policy documents that dental injury treatment excluded claims for implants.
BUPA didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me. I 
made my provisional decision about Mr Fs complaint in May 2021. In it, I said:
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
customer.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
a way that is easy to understand. This includes outlining details such as a summary of
excluded risks and the main exclusions where claims cannot be made in an Insurance
Product Information Document.
Ive reviewed the Insurance Product Information Document for Mr Fs dental insurance
policy. This clearly states on page one, under a heading in bold entitled what is not insured,
that surgical implants are not covered.
Section 4.2 of the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy, at page 18, set out the Exclusions
on benefits. These exclusions are applicable to all sections of cover. Section 4.2 says;
Benefits are not payable for: 
surgical implants
Section 5.1 of the policy, at page 20/21, sets out examples of the type of treatment that
might be covered as routine dental treatment and restorative dental treatment. However,
no such examples are listed under dental injury treatment. Mr F feels this could be
interpreted to mean that cover for dental injury treatment is all-encompassing and not
subject to any exclusions.
However, the policy exclusion for surgical implants is clearly and transparently set out in the
preceding section of the policy documentation. Im satisfied that its clear from both the policy
wording and the format of the policy that the exclusion does and is intended to apply to all
sections of cover. I dont think the fact that BUPA hasnt given any examples of what type of
dental injury treatment might be covered leaves it open to any reasonable interpretation that
the exclusions already listed dont apply to dental injury treatment.
Ive listened to Mr Fs first call with BUPA, and BUPAs adviser wasnt sure whether an
implant was covered as dental injury treatment. Ive also listened to a call Mr F had with a
member of BUPAs customer relations team. On that occasion, BUPAs staff member said
he could fully understand what Mr F meant about the policy being ambiguous and he felt
whether an implant would be covered as dental injury treatment was a grey area.
I dont think theres any question that some of the BUPA advisers who Mr F spoke to didnt
know whether an implant would be covered as dental injury treatment. But this doesnt
necessarily mean the policy terms and conditions are ambiguous. Instead, BUPA may need
to provide further training or coaching to some of its staff and BUPA acknowledged this in its
final response letter to Mr F.
I understand Mr F feels strongly that his policy is worded ambiguously, and I dont doubt his
comments that he isnt intentionally trying to misinterpret the policy. Im sorry to disappoint 
him but, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds
upon which I could fairly ask BUPA to disregard the policy exclusion for implants and accept
such a claim.
BUPA paid Mr F £250 compensation for the confusion and any delay caused as a result of
its advisers actions in this case. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable compensation in the
circumstances for the impact the situation had on Mr F.
So, I dont currently intend to ask BUPA to do anything further.
BUPA responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr F 
responded with additional comments, which Ive summarised as follows: 
there is no reference to any limitations or exclusions for dental injury treatment on 
his policy certificate;
the Insurance Product Information Document doesnt say that the general policy 
exclusions apply to dental injury treatment and this document is also unspecific 
about what is covered under that section of the policy;
the definition of dental injury treatment is very broad and doesnt reference any 
exclusions applying to this section of cover;BUPA has subsequently changed the format of its insurance documentation;
if hed been given the correct information about his policy coverage at the outset, 
hed have handled the situation differently;
he has experienced significant emotional distress, stress and anxiety as a result of 
the situation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Fs additional comments, but I wont be changing my 
provisional decision. 
I know Mr F is disappointed that Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, but I 
dont agree with the conclusions she reached. 
There is no requirement for a policy certificate to contain information about policy limitations 
or exclusions. The policy certificate specifically says: 
This Certificate and the membership guide, together set out the details of your 
benefits under the agreement between you and BUPA. 
Im satisfied that the Insurance Product Information Document provided Mr F with 
appropriate information in a way that was easy to understand as required under the ICOBS 
rules. The exclusion which BUPA relied on to decline his claim is mentioned. The document 
is intended to be a summary of the insurance cover and says:
Full terms and conditions of the policy are contained in the membership guide and 
on your membership certificate which you will receive after your purchase. It is 
important you read all of these documents carefully.
I wouldnt usually expect to see exclusions referenced within the definitions section of an 
insurance policy and I dont think the words all treatment within the policy definition of 
dental injury treatment can be interpreted out of context from the remainder of that 
sentence. 
I understand why, if the policy format has subsequently changed, Mr F may feel this 
supports his position that the policy which was in force at the time of his claim was unclear. 
But the policy wording which was applicable at the time of the claim is the only policy 
wording thats relevant to my decision and Im satisfied these policy documents clearly and 
transparently set out that no cover is available for surgical implants. 
I have no doubt this situation will have been extremely frustrating and inconvenient for Mr F, 
but the £250 compensation which BUPA has paid is within the category of our compensation 
awards (moderate) which Id consider appropriate for a complaint of this nature. I think 
BUPAs payment of £250 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances for the 
impact of its error on Mr F.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman