DRN-3916034
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Freemans Plc (Freemans) irresponsibly gave her a running 
account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In September 2015, Mrs K applied for a catalogue shopping account through Freemans. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £100. The credit limit was increased four times to 
£500 in March 2016. There were no further increases until October 2019 when the credit 
limit rose to £700. 
In 2021, Mrs K complained to Freemans to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Freemans didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 10 January 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Freemans will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ks complaint is that Freemans irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility 
that she couldnt afford.
Freemans has explained that it relied in part on information that Mrs K provided at the time 
of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mrs Ks 
name to assess Mrs Ks level of debt at that time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Freemans 
decided to agree to the initial credit limit of £100. So, the checks for affordability seemed 
proportionate for such a very modest credit limit.
The initial credit limit and all the subsequent credit increases were reasonably modest and 
the repayments for the credit would also have been modest. And Mrs Ks statements show 
that her income was regular and not modest. And Freemans have provided details of the 
account which suggests that Mrs Ks Freemans account was well managed with no missed 
or incomplete payments. So, there was nothing in Mrs Ks management of her account with 
Freemans to deter Freemans from providing further and relatively modest credit increases. 
The Freemans checks showed that whilst Mrs K had other borrowings, her credit file was 
reasonably clean at the time of the application. When I say this, I mean that Mrs Ks 
management of her existing credit showed no recent history of CCJs, defaults or late 
payments. In saying that, I have noted that Mrs Ks credit file refers to defaults but there had 
been none in over two years before any lending decision. And whilst the small defaults in 
2017 occurred during the credit history with Freemans, they were for very modest amounts 
and Ive noted that Freemans waited a further two years before offering a further modest 
credit limit increase. So, the credit and the credit increases were provided when there was 
no recent new adverse information on Mrs Ks credit file. 
So, it seemed from the credit file that at the point that the lending decisions were made, Mrs 
K was affording her existing credit. And so, Freemans were not put on notice of reasons 
sufficient not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the information that 
Freemans had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to feel they ought to 
make more searching enquiries of Mrs Ks financial situation. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Freemans at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Freemans acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were offering 
was unreasonable. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 24 January 2023. Freemans responded acknowledging receipt of 
my provisional decision. They said they have nothing further to add. Mrs K has 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and has provided a further bank statement 
but no written response to the points made in the provisional decision. 
Both parties have inferred they have made their final submissions in this complaint. So, I am 
proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks statement is similar to those that I considered for my provisional decision. In that 
respect, and in the absence of any argument attached to its presentation, it seems I have no 
real new information to consider following my provisional decision. That being the case, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons 
(above) for not upholding Mrs Ks complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman