DRN-4234768
The complaint
Mr G complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) delay in 
dealing with his claim under his motor insurance policy. He also complains about their 
decision to declare his car a total loss rather than carrying out repairs.   
What happened
Mr Gs car was involved in an accident, which he reported to Advantage. Mr G says, 
although repairs were approved by Advantage twice, they couldnt find a garage with 
capacity to handle the repairs. Mr G says this led to delays, but he complained after 
Advantage informed him, theyd now decided to declare his car a total loss. 
Advantage responded and accepted there had been delays and explained the availability of 
repair bookings is being impacted by the unavailability of parts meaning repairs are taking 
longer. Advantage explained photos of Mr Gs car were assessed again and they decided 
the car was uneconomic to repair. Advantage explained they referred the matter to their 
Senior Technical Engineer who assessed the damage to the car and was of the view it 
wasnt economical to repair based on the repair costs of £5,544.94. Advantage 
acknowledged that theyd provided Mr G with conflicting information about the repairs. They 
also accepted there had been delay so they sent Mr G a payment of £250 as compensation. 
During our investigation, Advantage paid Mr G a total loss settlement amount of £5,191.02. 
Mr G feels this is unfair as he arranged his own independent assessment of his car which 
found, not only that his car was repairable, but that it could be repaired for less than the 
repair costs quoted by Advantage.      
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. She thought Advantage should pay Mr G a cash 
in lieu settlement in line with the repair costs quoted by Mr Gs garage, and also increase 
their offer of compensation to £500. Advantage havent responded so the matter has come 
to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided Advantage with details of the complaint being made 
against them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its 
important that we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In 
this case, while Advantage havent provided a response to a number of queries raised by our 
investigator, Im satisfied weve taken sufficient steps, and given sufficient time, to enable 
them to respond. I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for 
Mr G to have to continue waiting for an answer to his complaint.   
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The main dispute here relates to Advantages decision to declare Mr Gs 
car a total loss. Mr G says this is unfair as his car is low mileage, in excellent condition and 
only has cosmetic damage. Mr G also feels its unreasonable for Advantage to inform him 
twice that theyve arranged for his car to be repaired, to then change their mind and declare 
his car a total loss without even inspecting it. So, Ive thought about whether Advantages 
decision here is fair and reasonable. 
Theres no dispute between the parties that, following Mr Gs report of the incident in 
September 2022, Advantage originally arranged for Mr Gs car to be repaired. Advantage 
confirmed this twice - once in September and again in October. But repairs dont proceed 
due to Advantages garages being at full capacity, and unable to take on this work. Then, in 
November, Advantage contact Mr G and say theyve decided to write off his car. They say 
Mr Gs car has been deemed a total loss based on a report received from their in-house 
repair tool engineers as Mr Gs cars damages had been added to this tool and reviewed by 
the engineers. They also say their Senior Technical Engineer, who assessed the damage to 
the car, was of the view it wasnt economical to repair based on repair costs of £5,544.94. 
Mr Gs motor insurance policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions and defines total 
loss as, If your car cant be repaired or the cost of repair is uneconomical, your car will be 
declared a Total Loss. The terms and conditions allow Advantage to decide how to settle 
the claim, and this includes paying for any repairs or paying the market value of a car 
immediately before the loss. In this case, Advantage say theyve decided Mr Gs car is a 
total loss based on the repair costs  meaning its uneconomical to repair. Ive looked at the 
repair schedule arranged by Advantage, but while this lists all parts requiring repair or 
replacement, the costs and amounts have been redacted. I can see Advantage sent this to 
Mr G upon request, and this is the same copy Mr G has forwarded to our service. So, it 
might well be the case Advantage redacted the costs due to the information being 
commercially sensitive. But Advantage havent sent our service an unredacted copy, so Im 
not able to verify the repair costs. 
On the other hand, Mr G has provided a copy of a repair schedule from his own garage, and 
this quotes a total amount of £4,110.49. Its clear theres a difference in repair costs between 
the two schedules, and this is largely down to there being a significant difference between 
the items listed as requiring repair or replacement. The number of parts listed in Advantages 
schedule is more than double the number of parts listed in Mr Gs garages schedule. So, 
Ive carefully considered all information to decide which I find more persuasive. And in this 
case, I find Mr Gs garages report more persuasive. I say this for a number of reasons. 
Firstly, Advantage say they referred photos showing the damage to Mr Gs car to their 
engineer and theyve provided an indication of the required repairs and associated costs.   
Mr Gs garage have inspected his car, so Im persuaded their assessment of the parts and 
damage is more reliable. In addition to this, I can see Mr Gs garages schedule of repairs 
has been sent to Advantage, but they havent provided any response or at any point 
challenged the findings or explained why they cant consider this schedule. 
I acknowledge its for Advantage to decide how they settle Mr Gs claim  and the terms and 
conditions allow this. But, given theres a schedule here prepared by an independent expert, 
I think its important in the circumstances for Advantage to provide reasonable grounds for 
why this schedule shouldnt be considered. And given I havent seen any reasons or 
challenges from Advantage, and the information shows Mr Gs garage has carried out a full 
assessment of Mr Gs car, I dont think its unreasonable to use the findings from this repair 
schedule. Im persuaded by Mr Gs garages repair schedule, so Ive now gone on to consider whether 
I think Advantages decision to deem Mr Gs car a total loss is fair and reasonable. I cant 
see the policy booklet specifically defines what percentage of the market value of Mr Gs car 
the repair costs will need to be in order to deem it beyond economical repair. Its industry 
practice that an insurer will consider writing off a vehicle if the repairs cost around 60-70% of 
the market value. I can see our investigator has looked at a motor trade guide which has 
provided a valuation of £6,670. 
So, taking into account Mr Gs garages repair costs, the repairs represent 62% of the 
market value of Mr Gs car. This is within the range Ive mentioned above for an insurer to 
deem a car a total loss, but in the circumstances of this case, I dont think its reasonable for 
Advantage to do that. I say this because Mr G has provided evidence from the garage which 
says they believe its possible to straighten the centre section of his cars exhaust, which 
would reduce the repair costs by around £1,000. So, taking this into account, this would 
bring the repair costs below 60% of the market value of Mr Gs car. I accept that it cant be 
said with absolute certainty whether Mr Gs garage will be able to straighten the centre 
section of the exhaust, but I think its fair to factor in theres a possibility of this  particularly 
as Advantage havent provided any evidence to challenge this, or otherwise any information 
or reason as to why this schedule shouldnt be considered. 
Turning now to the steps I think Advantage should take to put things right. I can see Mr G 
believes Advantage should pay him cash in lieu of repairs to settle his claim. This means 
Advantage wont be involved with the repairs and instead will pay Mr G cash in order to get 
the repairs done himself. I accept the terms and conditions allow Advantage to choose how 
they settle the claim under the policy, but our service would expect an insurer to be flexible 
and allow a consumer to use their own repairer if they want to. In this case, Advantage has 
had an opportunity to arrange repairs, but their preferred garages didnt have capacity. And, 
as mentioned above, they havent provided any evidence to persuade me why Mr Gs 
garages schedule  and their opinion that Mr Gs car should be repaired  isnt reliable.     
Mr G has explained his garage can carry out the repairs, so I think its reasonable in the 
circumstances here for Advantage to pay Mr G cash in lieu of repairs in line with the repair 
schedule prepared by Mr Gs own garage.  
I acknowledge Advantage have paid Mr G £250 compensation for the service he has 
received. The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Advantage have 
admitted they got things wrong when a failure in their instructions being referred to their 
agent led to delays in the progression of the claim and providing Mr G with conflicting 
information about the damage to his car and the outcome of this. They also accept they 
failed to manage Mr Gs claim effectively. Ive thought carefully about the impact on Mr G, 
but I dont believe the compensation offered goes far enough to recognise the impact. 
Mr G was caused a significant level of frustration and confusion when Advantage changed 
their decision from a repair to a total loss. I acknowledge there might be occasions where 
material information comes to light, or further information is received which changes an 
insurers decision. But in this case, it appears Advantage made their decision on repairs 
based on photos provided by Mr G, and then decided on a total loss based on the same 
photos. 
I cant see what material new information Advantage received or took into account which 
made them change their decision. Im not saying its unreasonable for an insurer to change 
their decision  but rather its caused significant frustration and confusion here for Mr G who 
understandably continued to query why it took over two months to reach this decision based 
on the same information. So, I think its fair and reasonable for Advantage to increase their 
offer of compensation to £500.  Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Advantage have acted unfairly in deeming Mr Gs car a total loss. 
So, Advantage should pay Mr G a cash in lieu of repairs settlement in line with the repair 
costs quoted by Mr Gs garages schedule of repairs dated 30 January 2023. Given this is for 
repairs, Advantage must take steps to update any internal or external database to ensure 
theres no record of Mr Gs car being a total loss. I can see Advantage have already paid   
Mr G the total loss payment which Mr G confirms he has retained in full. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Mr G to use this amount in order to arrange the repairs with the additional 
amount being returned to Advantage. Advantages errors have also caused Mr G significant 
frustration and confusion. So, in addition to the £250 already paid, they should increase their 
offer by an additional £250  bringing the total compensation for this complaint to £500. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman