DRN-2690772
The complaint
Mrs P has complained NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, wont refund monies she spent on 
share trading when she didnt get the service she was promised.
What happened
In 2017 Mrs P was cold-called by a foreign-based company offering her investment options. 
She understood she could invest set amounts of money  from as little as €250  which the 
company would invest on her behalf. Ill call the trading company G. She was led to believe 
she could double her investment. It was also confirmed to her that shed be able to access 
the money on her account at any time.
Mrs P used both money from her current account and her Aqua credit card to invest. She 
made three separate payments to G of €250, €2,000 and €4,500 with her Aqua credit card 
from December 2017 to March 2018.
Mrs P quickly found she wasnt getting what was promised. She could never speak to her 
account manager, who was then changed. Gs location also seemed to move from country to 
country. When she became aware that the Financial Conduct Authority issued a warning 
against any trading with G in May 2018, she realised shed been a victim of a scam.
She complained to both NewDay about the spending on her Aqua credit card and to her 
bank. Her bank refunded her the money. Mrs P returned forms to NewDay in February 2019 
to enable them to attempt a chargeback for goods not being provided as described. NewDay 
believed this would prove unsuccessful as more than 120 days had passed since Mrs Ps 
original investments. NewDay believed they didnt have to do anything further. They 
expected Mrs P to settle the money owed on her credit card bill in line with the terms and 
conditions.
Mrs P brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She was unhappy at how shed 
been treated by NewDay. 
An investigator initially felt that NewDay hadnt done anything wrong. It wasnt clear Mrs P 
had any right to her money back under the chargeback rules. Mrs Ps complaint was re-
considered before being allocated to an ombudsman. Another investigator believed NewDay 
hadnt considered Mrs Ps ability to claim her money back under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. As there was evidence of misrepresentation  G had been operating a 
scam  she asked NewDay to refund Mrs P in full, and to add 8% simple interest to all 
payments Mrs P had made to NewDay.
NewDay disagreed with this outcome. They believed what Mrs P had done was provide a 
cash deposit to a trading account rather than purchase any goods or service. They therefore 
didnt believe section 75 applied to her complaint.
Mrs Ps complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our investigator and for roughly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mrs P has provided us with detailed submissions about what happened and why she was 
drawn into investing with G. Ive also seen the terms and conditions for her account with G. 
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators view of 23 February 2021. This 
covers some of what happened which Im not intending to repeat.
There are two aspects to the dispute: the chargeback and the section 75 aspects. Ill deal 
with the chargeback issues first.
Chargeback
The chargeback rules are managed by the relevant international card schemes. Theyre not 
a guarantee of a refund. But these rules can offer customers whove bought something 
which turns out to be not what they expected a simple and effective way of being 
reimbursed. As long as they made the purchase using their debit or credit card, they can ask 
their card issuer to assist. There are timelines and rules governing what a card issuer can 
and cannot do depending on the response provided by the merchant.
In this case  although NewDay has retained no evidence on this aspect  they submitted a 
claim based on Mrs Ps submission to them. For reasons that are unclear, G challenged this. 
NewDay felt any further attempt to chargeback would be unsuccessful. Card scheme rules 
about getting money back for investments are complex but I believe there may well have 
been some scope under the rules.
I appreciate NewDay firmly believe the service Mrs P was buying was depositing money 
onto an account  rather than the services that may flow from trading that money for shares. 
Therefore I appreciate why they believe any further claim would have been unsuccessful. I 
also agree Mrs Ps transactions with her credit card were completed outside of any 120 day 
timescale for chargeback.
However I believe it doesnt matter whether the chargeback would have been successful or 
not as Mrs P always had rights under section 75.
Ill explain this below although its clear NewDay never considered these.
Section 75
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mrs P used her Aqua credit card to make three payments to enable trading to be carried out on an account 
in her name with G. 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding NewDays liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether NewDay did enough in considering Mrs Ps complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask NewDay to put things right. 
Firstly Ive considered NewDays main argument that section 75 doesnt apply as Mrs P 
wasnt buying goods or services but just depositing cash onto an account. They believed that 
service existed so see no liability under section 75. I disagree with this interpretation. 
Ive reviewed what Mrs P has told us, along with Gs terms and conditions. Mrs P has told us 
she was being told she could invest and see her money grow. I see no reason why someone 
would enter into an agreement which was just to deposit funds without the related service for 
trading to be carried out. This wouldnt have provided her with the growth in the value of 
funds which is obviously what Mrs P thought she was buying.
And in any case its clear from warnings published by the FCA and knowledge about how 
similar companies operate, these businesses were operating a scam. There doesnt seem to 
be any intention to deliver actual share trading. Regardless of whether this trading proved 
successful or unsuccessful. 
I dont believe theres any real dispute that all Mrs Ps money went to G. I say this despite 
narrative on Mrs Ps Aqua statements showing credits to different named companies. There 
is clear additional evidence from G showing they received her payments. 
Ive seen nothing to show G wasnt misrepresenting its services to Mrs P. And the terms and 
conditions confirm Mrs P should have been able to access her funds and this service was 
denied to her.
Ive gone on to consider whether this misrepresentation induced Mrs P to investing in Gs 
services. I believe so. She was assured her money could potentially double and that her 
money was safe as G was investing in regulated markets. This was blatantly untrue and 
even if Mrs P may not have expected her money to double  after all who does  Im sure 
she was comforted by the fact her money was safe and available to her. Theres no dispute 
this wasnt the case.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation here, I will be asking NewDay to put things 
right. 
For the euro-based transactions, Mrs P was charged the sterling equivalent on her Aqua 
account. She was also charged exchange fees. These are all shown as their sterling 
equivalents in our investigators view of 23 February. Interestingly it doesnt appear as if 
NewDay treated these transactions as cash deposits. Mrs Ps account statements dont 
show interest being paid from the date of the transaction.
I dont believe Mrs P has repaid these transactions in full. Weve received correspondence 
from her which shows she negotiated a payment holiday with NewDay. But I do know that NewDay refunded initial over limit fees they charged Mrs P.
NewDay will need to rework Mrs Ps account as if these three transactions  and the 
associated fees  were never made. This may also involve corrections to Mrs Ps credit 
record to ensure there are no late payment markers related to these transactions.  
Any payments that Mrs P has made towards the three transactions will need to be refunded 
to her, along with 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct NewDay Ltd to:
Rework Mrs Ps Aqua credit card account to ensure transactions for £222.38 in 
December 2017, £1,783.38 in January 2018 and £4,002.79 in March 2018, along 
with their associated fees (£6.56, £52.61 and £109.42) are removed;
Update her credit record to ensure no negative data is lodged related to these 
transactions;
Refund any payments Mrs P made towards that part of her credit card debt; and
Add 8% simple interest a year from the date of her payments to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman