DRN-2232764
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) applied a currency conversion charge 
to a transaction made using his debit card. 
What happened
Mr P has a current account with Co-op. In May 2020 he signed up to a monthly magazine 
subscription with a US-based website. The subscription cost $12.99. When Mr P checked 
his bank statement he noticed his subscription payment had incurred a currency conversion 
charge (CCC). He didnt think this was right, so he complained to Co-op about it. Mr P said 
hed paid for his subscription in GBP, so a CCC shouldnt apply.
 
Co-op sent its final response to Mr P on 11 May 2020. In it, Co-op said the subscription 
had been processed in US Dollars. It explained that the account terms were clear in that 
payments processed in a foreign currency will incur a CCC. So Co-op said the CCC had 
been applied in-line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account. Co-op also provided a 
copy of its leaflet outlining the charges applicable to Mr Ps account.
 
Mr P disagreed, so he brought his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the 
complaint, but she didnt think Co-op had done anything wrong. She was satisfied the CCC 
had been applied in line with the account terms and conditions. So she didnt recommend 
that this complaint be upheld. Mr P still disagreed. He said hed paid for his subscription in 
GBP. He also pointed out that hed made purchases using US-based websites before, but 
he hadnt encountered this issue.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint centres on Co-op applying a CCC a to payment out of Mr Ps account. Mr P 
thinks the charge was applied unfairly. So, for me to determine if the charge was applied 
correctly or not, Ive looked at the terms and conditions which govern Mr Ps account to see 
the circumstances in which a CCC will apply.
 
The account terms say:
A Currency Conversion Charge is applied when you make a purchase using your debit card 
in a foreign currency, or if you make a cash withdrawal in a foreign currency outside the UK 
using your debit card.
Mr P has said he used his current account to sign up to a monthly magazine subscription, 
priced in US Dollars, via a US website. To complete the subscription process, Mr P wouldve 
had to provide card details so the monthly payment could be taken.
 
Co-op has provided a screenshot which shows Mr Ps debit card was used to pay his 
monthly magazine subscription. So Im satisfied Mr P gave the US website permission to 
debit his account, which is what it did. And given the cost of the subscription was in US 
Dollars, it follows that Mr P made a purchase in a foreign currency with his debit card. On 
that basis, Im satisfied the CCC terms are applicable to this transaction. 
Mr P told the investigator he paid in GBP. But that doesnt seem to be correct. If Mr P 
believes the cost of his subscription shouldve been charged in GBP, not US Dollars, hell 
need to speak with the US website directly. But in the circumstances of this case, Im not 
persuaded Co-op acted unfairly or unreasonably as it was entitled to apply the CCC.
 
Mr P has said hes not experienced this issue before when buying items listed in US Dollars 
from the UK. But all Ive considered here is whether the terms of Mr Ps account have been 
applied correctly on this occasion. And based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied they have. It 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman