DRN-2982712
The complaint
Miss J (through a representative) has complained Naylors Finance Limited (Naylors) didnt 
carry out affordability checks. Miss J says she suffered financial hardship as a result of the 
loans, because she couldn't afford the repayments. 
What happened
Miss J took three home credit loans from Naylors between March and June 2018. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Naylors can be 
found below:
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment 
date
1 £100 02/03/2018 01/04/2019
2 £100 19/04/2018 01/04/2019
3 £100 14/06/2018 01/04/2019
For each loan Miss J had to make 27 weekly repayments of £6. 
Miss J has had some problems repaying all her loans. Naylors told this service, that it wrote 
off the remaining total outstanding balances of £232 on all three loans on 1 April 2019. But 
no explanation was provided as to why it did this. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Js complaint. She didnt uphold her complaint. She 
said, Naylors had carried out proportionate checks and the results of these checks showed it 
that Miss J would likely to be able to afford the loan repayments she was committed to 
making. 
Naylors appear to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Miss J disagreed and in summary she said the amount Naylors had recorded for her weekly 
income was actually her monthly income. Later on, after Miss J had sight of the income and 
expenditure details, she told us the monthly income of £1,100 was her ex-partners. She also 
says she didnt see the amounts inputted, she was just told to sign in order to get the loan. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Naylors needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss J could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Naylors should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss J. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Naylors was required to establish 
whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Naylors says for each loan it wouldve asked Miss J some questions about her income and 
any outgoings that she had. But Naylorss has only been able to provide me with the 
information it gathered for loans 1 and 3. Having looked at all the evidence I agree with the 
adjudicator that Naylors carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that 
Miss J was able to afford the repayments she was committed to making. Ive explained my 
reasons for doing so in more detail below. 
As I said above, for each individual loan Miss J was committed to making 27 weekly 
payments of £6 per week. And as the loans ran concurrently, by loan 3, Miss J was 
committed to paying Naylors a total of £18 per week. 
For loan 1, Miss Js weekly income seems to be £260 which is made up of a salary and what 
Naylors calls family credit. Naylors knew that Miss J was a part time worker. The weekly 
outgoings that were declared came to £162. So, assuming, that the weekly outgoings were 
solely related to Miss J and not the household, then Naylors wouldve thought, perfectly 
reasonable that Miss J could afford the £6 per week she was committed to paying.
I dont know what Miss J declared to Naylors for loan 2, but given the close proximity to 
when loan 1 was granted, its not in my view unreasonable to conclude the information she gave was likely to be similar. Although by now she was due to pay £12 per week, based on 
the information form loan 1, Naylors wouldve thought this loan was affordable. 
Miss J returned for her final loan, it was for the same sum as her two previous loans to be 
repaid over the same term, with the same weekly repayment due. For this loan, Miss J 
signed to say she was now a fulltime worker. She was earning £925 per month so around 
£214 per week. On top of this, Naylors was aware that she received benefit payments of 
£130 per week. At this point, Naylors believed Miss Js income was about £343 per week. 
Again, assuming Miss J was solely responsible for the declared outgoings, and breaking the 
figures down into a weekly figure, it looks like, based on what Miss J declared these came to 
£243 per week. So again, Naylors wouldve believed Miss J could now afford the repayment 
of £18 per week. 
Overall, for Miss Js loan I think Naylors carried out proportionate checks which showed Miss 
J was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent 
seen any further information that shows its likely Naylors was made aware of any financial 
problems Miss J mightve been having at the time each loan was approved. 
Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate her circumstances further that may have 
involved it verifying the information that Miss J was providing. It was also fairly early on in the 
lending relationship so I think it was reasonable for Naylors to rely on the information it 
obtained and approve these loans when this information showed it that Miss J could afford to 
meet her repayments. 
Ive thought about what Miss J says about her ex-partners income, but this hasnt changed 
my mind about the outcome. It looks like Naylors may have taken this income into account 
when trying to work out what the weekly income was. But whether it did this, or not, makes 
no difference to the outcome Ive reached. Only factoring the declared income that Miss J 
provided for each loan wouldve enabled Naylors to conclude the loans were affordable. 
Ive also thought about what Miss J says about not seeing the data that was inputting into 
the income and expenditure forms. But, I have to be led by the evidence that Ive been 
provided. Given these income and expenditure forms have been signed, Ive concluded, that 
on balance, Miss J wouldve had the chance to review and amend the figures. 
 
So, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint. I appreciate Miss J will be disappointed by the 
outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive 
reached the outcome that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman