DRN-4465887
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Pension Works Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr H approached Pension Works after his existing adviser asked it to discuss his pension 
and retirement needs. His existing adviser had already obtained details and a guaranteed 
transfer value (CETV) from Mr Hs employer prior to this meeting.
Pension Works completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives. Pension Works also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be low medium. 
In January 2020 Pension Works advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
To take the maximum tax-free cash to pay off the majority of his mortgage at the earliest
opportunity.
To ensure if he dies the remainder of his pension could be left to his son, or if they get
back together, his former partner.
To have control over how the pension income is paid.
Mr H accepted Pension Works recommendation and the transfer took place following this.
The amount transferred was around £274,312.01.
Mr H complained in June 2023 through a professional representative to Pension Works 
about the suitability of the transfer advice. His representative said the FCAs position was 
that transferring a Defined Benefit (DB) pension was unsuitable and Mr H had no capacity 
for loss nor investment experience and so shouldnt have been advised to transfer. It said 
this had caused him a financial loss.
Pension Works didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the advice was suitable and it disputed 
it didnt meet its obligations in terms of conduct and legislative requirements. It said his 
requirements couldnt be met by the scheme and didnt agree Mr H had made a loss. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator asked Mr H about his circumstances at the time and what hed used the tax-free 
cash for. Mr H explained he didnt use the money to pay off his mortgage, which was what 
his objective at the time of advice was recorded as being. He told us hed split with his 
partner and at the time had been living with his sister. He needed his own house and a 
family member had loaned him £35,000 for the deposit on a property. Mr H had purchased 
the property around the time of advice and had been told the transfer could take 12 months, 
which it did. He had explained to the family member hed be able to pay them back once the 
transfer completed. The investigator asked if the transfer hadnt taken place and hed not 
had access to the tax-free lump sum, how would he have paid back the money to his family 
member. Mr H said he wouldnt have been able to. 
The investigator concluded that although he didnt think the recommendation was suitable 
based on the stated objectives at the time (different to Mr Hs testimony now), Mr H wouldve 
wished to transfer anyway. As he had no way of repaying the loan and having a property of 
his own was very important to him.
Mr Hs representatives disagreed. They said that Mr H had a gold-plated final salary pension 
and the benefits lost, outweigh other factors. It also said it didnt agree with the investigators 
view that other assets could help absorb the loss of the DB plan. It was the FCAs guidance 
that transferring away from a DB scheme was bad. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, he explained he had not said Mr 
H had capacity for loss or sufficient other assets to fall back on. 
He reiterated that Mr H had no other way of repaying the family member and purchasing a 
property was the key objective for Mr H given his circumstances. Mr Hs only other way of 
accessing some tax-free cash wouldve been by taking benefits from the scheme early. 
However, the expected tax-free cash here wouldve only provided £23,000 and he didnt 
have sufficient other savings to meet the repayment of the loan. And it wouldve meant Mr H 
having to take income at 55 which he didnt need at the time. So this wasnt a viable 
alternative.
Pension Works responded to say it had nothing further to add, although it didnt agree with 
some of the investigators points about failings with its advice. It agreed with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pension Works actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pension 
Works should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im satisfied it 
was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 65 was 5.87%, on a joint life basis 
where all benefits were taken as a pension. Further calculations were produced for age 65 
on a single and joint life basis, as well as benefits being taken as pension only or with a lump 
sum. The same was also produced for age 62.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
As the investigator noted, the suitability report referred to a critical yield of 3.72% for age 65 
where tax-free cash was taken and a reduced pension. However, the transfer analysis 
contradicted this as it said the investment growth needed to meet the scheme would be 
4.13%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
low-medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr 
H giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.  Mr H also had a very low capacity to 
absorb any potential investment growth downturns to his fund.
So for this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice; there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Other reasons to transfer
The objectives recorded at the time say that Mr H wished to access £70,000 to pay down his 
mortgage. However, this doesnt tally with what Mr H has told us he required the money for. 
Its unclear how it has come to pass that the information relied on for the recommendation doesnt match reality. But ultimately, I dont think this is important here, given the clear need 
that Mr H had for the tax-free cash. 
Mr H had approached Pension Works via his financial adviser to look into transferring his DB 
pension. And hes told us his circumstances were such that he needed to purchase his own 
property as he was living with his sister. And that hed borrowed £35,000 to fund this from a 
family member with the promise of repaying this amount in approximately a year when he 
received the tax-free cash from the pension transfer. And I agree with the investigator that 
there was no other available route to achieve this objective.
I think this objective wouldve been so strong it was actually a need. Mr H had promised a 
family member hed repay the money that hed borrowed to purchase a house so that he had 
somewhere to live of his own. I think this will have far outweighed the downside that he could 
receive less benefits in retirement. And so, I think Mr H wouldve wished to go ahead with a 
transfer even if Pension Works had recommended that he didnt transfer. Its also worth 
noting that had the recorded objective matched reality (the need to repay a loan to purchase 
the property) and Pension Works had recommended transferring on this basis. I think it 
wouldve been in Mr Hs best interests to do so in the circumstances. As Ive said its not 
necessary for me to speculate on why the objectives recorded dont match reality. It doesnt 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint for the reasons explained.
conclusion
Mr H had a very compelling reason to access a lump sum to buy a property and repay a loan 
used for the deposit, to a family member. Regardless of the fact the objective recorded at the 
time didnt match this, so the advice was given based on other factors, Mr H couldnt have 
met his objective without transferring his pension and accessing tax-free cash. I think Mr H 
wouldve wished to transfer even in the event Pension Works had advised him not to.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman