DRN-2724011
The complaint
Mrs T complained about the amount she was charged by Zenith Insurance plc after she 
cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T bought her policy through a broker (who Ill refer to below as A). It started on 8 
February 2018 and the yearly premium was £224.73, which I understand Mrs T paid by 
monthly instalments.
In March 2018 Mrs T made a claim under the policy. Zenith treated it as a fault claim and it 
paid the other driver in July 2018.
While the claim was happening Mrs T contacted A to get a quote to insure a new vehicle 
under the policy. She was told there would be an additional premium of £648.27. The 
necessary arrangements were made for the new vehicle to be insured under the policy. Four 
days later Mrs T contacted A to cancel the policy as shed found a cheaper price elsewhere. 
She was told shed have to pay £85.58, which included a £60 cancellation fee.
In April 2019 A wrote to Mrs T saying there was £696.09 owing on the policy. In its 
communications with Mrs T, A said Zenith had told it about the claim and that this meant the 
balance of the premium needed to be paid  so Zenith wouldnt allow any refund of premium. 
In its communications with us (we are considering a separate complaint about A) it said the 
premium claw back rule is Zeniths and that it was acting on Zeniths behalf in chasing the 
outstanding premium.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision, which explained why I thought Mrs Ts complaint should be 
upheld. My provisional decision is outlined below.
Mrs Ts policy said
oif she cancelled it within 14 days of the start date she would have to pay the pro-
rata premium for the period of time the vehicle was insured, provided that she 
hadnt made any claims
oshe could cancel it after the first 14 days, and if she hadnt made a claim Zenith 
would calculate the premium for the time the vehicle was insured
oif she paid the premium by instalments and a loss or damage was covered by the 
policy she must pay all the premium owed.
I didnt think Zenith had applied the terms of the policy fairly in this situation as I didnt 
think it was fair for Zenith to effectively charge Mrs T the full premium when it only 
covered the risk on the second vehicle for four days and no claim was made.
Usually if a fault claim was made on a policy the full premium became due because the 
insurer fulfilled its part of the contract by settling a valid claim. It didnt matter when in the 
insurance year the claim was. However, although this was one continuous policy where 
one vehicle replaced another, I thought in this situation it was fair to look at them as two 
separate policies  one for the initial vehicle insured and one for the second vehicle 
insured.
The initial vehicle insured was the one that was involved in the accident. By settling 
Mrs Ts claim, Zenith fulfilled the terms of the contract in respect of that vehicle. But, the 
cost of that contract (ie insuring that vehicle) was £224.73. So when the policy was 
cancelled, I thought it was fair for Zenith to have charged the full premium on the initial 
vehicle only. After all, if Mrs T had just cancelled the policy and insured the new vehicle 
elsewhere or under a different policy with Zenith, this is all Zenith would have been able 
to charge.
The cost of insuring the second vehicle up until the end of the policy was quoted by A as 
£648.27. Zenith insured this vehicle for four days. Mrs T didnt make any claim on the 
policy for this vehicle. So I thought it was fair in this instance to treat it as Mrs T 
cancelling the policy within 14 days of the start date of insuring this vehicle, which in turn 
meant that she should only have to pay the pro-rata cost of insuring this vehicle for four 
days.
I also noted that Zenith told Mrs T that any outstanding premium was down to A to 
arrange and that it was unable to comment on the outstanding balance or how A chose 
to pursue the money. I disagreed with this. The outstanding premium was purely down to 
Zenith as it chose to not refund any premium when Mrs T cancelled the policy. Further, A 
was clearly acting as Zeniths agent in recovering the outstanding premium  and Zenith 
was responsible for the actions of its agent.
In order to put things right, I thought Zenith should re-calculate the amount of premium 
that Mrs T owed based on (a) her having to pay the full premium for the cost of insuring 
initial vehicle ie £224.73, and (b) her having to pay the pro-rata premium for the cost of 
insuring the second vehicle for four days (which I calculated to be £9.60).
Responses to my provisional decision
Zenith confirmed it agreed with my provisional decision. 
Mrs T said she felt my provisional decision was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there isnt anything more for me to consider, my final decision remains as outlined in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Zenith should now re-calculate the amount of premium that Mrs T owes based on:
her having to pay £224.73 for the cost of insuring initial vehicle, and
her having to pay £9.60 for the cost of insuring the second vehicle for four days, andIf the amount Mrs T has paid is more than the combined amount in the first two bullet points, 
then Zenith should refund Mrs T the difference.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance plc to settle the matter as outlined under 
the Putting things right section above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman