DRN-3933440
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) didnt agree his loan with them had been introduced by a party not 
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around March 2010, Mr and Mrs H purchased a points-based holiday trial membership 
product from a company (the supplier). The purchase was financed through a point-of-sale 
loan in Mr Hs name provided by BPF.
For simplicity and where relevant, I shall refer to any comments and evidence provided by 
Mr and Mrs H as being provided by Mr H. This is because the loan was in Mr Hs name only, 
so Mrs H wouldnt be considered as an eligible complainant or claimant here.
In or around November 2019, Mr H submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to 
BPF requesting copies of any documents they held in relation to the purchase transaction 
and loan. Having received that information, Mr H complained to BPF in January 2020. He 
said the loan documentation suggested the supplier who introduced him to BPF wasnt 
authorised to do so under FSMA and that had caused him significant losses.
BPF responded to Mr Hs complaint in early February 2020. They said the retailer name 
stated in the finance documentation was a trading name/location designation for a 
company Ill call C. And C had the required authorisation to introduce the business to them. 
Mr H was unhappy with BPFs response, so asked the CMC to refer his complaint to this 
service. In doing so, the CMC added various additional points. They said:
the retailer had canvassed Mr and Mrs H off site and there is nothing in the 
credit broker license which suggests this is permissible;
Mr and Mrs H were not given time to sign the Loan documentation and appropriate 
credit checks werent completed;
the benefits of the product purchased were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs H;
the relationship between Mr and Mrs H and the supplier (and hence BPF) was unfair; 
and
a Spanish court ruling found that the suppliers corporate structure was akin to 
fraud.
The CMC thought BPF should reimburse all payments made under Mr Hs loan and cancel 
the remaining loan agreement with no further liability.
One of our investigators referred the CMCs additional points to BPF. BPF told this service 
that any claim made by Mr H would be too late under the provisions within the Limitation Act 
1980 (the LA). Having considered all the evidence available, our investigator didnt think 
BPF needed to do anything more. The investigator thought the supplier was authorised 
under FSMA and agreed that under the LA, any claim Mr H couldve made may now be too 
late.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said Mr H wasnt aware BPF had 
considered any claim under the CCA or raised a limitation defence. And in any event, 
thought the ombudsman service shouldnt be bound by law, rather what is fair and 
reasonable. As regards any potential claims under the various sections of the CCA, they 
said:
an application under section 140a of the CCA, where the relationship is said to be 
unfair, is an action on a specialty to which a 12 year limitation period appliesafter 
the agreement has come to an endMr H settled the loan on 21 May 2010;
our investigator had failed to consider and address the various issues theyd raised in 
their initial submission to this service.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The role of this service, when considering Mr Hs complaint here, is to examine and decide 
whether BPFs response appears to have been fair and reasonable, given all the 
circumstances. When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Dispute 
rules in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (DISP) means Im required to 
take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service. 
Mr Hs complaint to BPF related to the suppliers authorised status at the time the loan was 
provided and was raised by him in January 2020. 
Authorisation to arrange the loan
Mr H thought the supplier of the holiday membership product wasnt permitted or authorised 
to arrange loans under section 19 of FSMA. BPF have confirmed that the supplier name 
used was a trading name/location designation of C which was noted on the sales 
documents.
Our records show that C was subject to this services consumer credit jurisdiction from 7 
May 2009 until 31 March 2014. So, it appears C had the necessary authorisation, at the 
time, to introduce and arrange the loan agreement Mr H entered in to with BPF. This 
supports BPFs findings in their response to Mr Hs original complaint. So, I think their 
response was fair here.
The CMC have since said that C breached the terms of any consumer credit authorisation 
because Mr H was canvassed off site by suggesting they could win a free holiday. Further 
they suggest this incentive was a ruse designed to get them to sign the loan agreement. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the loan provided by BPF was presented as a condition of 
the product Mr and Mrs H purchased from C. I believe they wouldve had a choice about how 
they wished to fund and pay for that product. It also appears that once they did agree to 
proceed with the purchase, the BPF loan was presented as a funding option to consider. 
And Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the BPF loan option was presented to them at any time other than during the on-site sales meeting. So, I cant reasonably conclude that this 
amounts to a breach of the consumer credit authorisation held by C. 
Does the LA apply here?
Theres no evidence to suggest any claims under the CCA were presented to BPF by Mr H 
or the CMC prior to this services involvement. The CMC only appear to have raised 
Grounds of misrepresentation on Mr Hs behalf as additional points to this service in 
August 2020. Our investigator asked BPF whether theyd investigated the 
misrepresentations suggested by the CMC on Mr Hs behalf. In response, BPF concluded 
that any claims under the CCA would be too late within the provisions of the LA. So, they 
didnt believe they needed to consider the claims further.
Given the facts of Mr Hs expanded complaint, relevant law includes the LA. This is because 
the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan from BPF - took place in 2010.
Claims under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA are legal claims, not complaints under DISP. 
Only a court is able to decide whether Mr Hs claims were made too late under the 
provisions within the LA. However, as its relevant law, Ive taken the LA into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable here.
The LA provides timescales within which action may be taken for breaches of the law. It 
includes various timescales dependent upon the nature of the breach against which action 
can be taken and isnt specifically limited to financial products and services.
Following this services referral of the CMCs claims to BPF, I need to decide whether their 
response about the alleged misrepresentations was fair and reasonable. I think its useful to 
outline how I think the LA might apply here. I say that because, as Ive previously mentioned, 
only a court is able to decide whether a claim made by Mr H is too late under the provisions 
within the LA.
A claim under section 75
The CMC allege the supplier misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement to Mr H 
when he bought it, which could bring cause for a claim under section 75.
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against the lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mr H had to make a claim within six years of 
when he entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement  which the CMC confirm 
was in March 2010  because that is when he says he lost out having relied upon the 
alleged false statements of fact.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were received from the CMC by this service in 
August 2020. So, they were forwarded to BPF for their consideration and comment. But as 
this is more than ten years after Mr H first says he lost out and theres no evidence that any 
claims had previously been made, I believe theyre likely to fall outside of the time limit set by 
the LA. So, I cant fairly say that BPFs response appears unreasonable here.
A claim under section 140a
A claim under Section 140a is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, the trigger point 
here is slightly different. Any relationship between Mr H and BPF continues while the finance 
agreement remains live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the 
borrowing under it has been repaid.BPF said Mr Hs finance agreement ended in February 2012. But the CMC says Mr H settled 
the loan in May 2010. So, I think Mr H had six years from when the debt was repaid, his 
account was closed, and the relationship ended in order to make any claim. Using the latter 
of the two dates, as this suggests the relationship ended more than six years previously, any 
claim here is also likely to fall outside of the time limit set by the LA. Again, I cant say that 
BPFs response appears unreasonable here.
The CMC suggest an application under section 140a of the CCA is an action on a speciality 
to which a 12-year limitation period applies under section 8 of the LA. But I dont agree. A 
specialty debt is one that is created by a deed or instrument under seal rather than a simple 
written debt contract. I cant see thats the case here as the debt was created under a signed 
loan agreement drawn under the CCA with no evidence it was secured. And I believe the 
usual six-year time limitation applies here.
Could limitation be postponed?
The LA does postpone the relevant limitation period in certain circumstances. The CMC 
believes section 32 of the LA applies here. 
Section 32(1)(b) of the LA says that, if any fact relevant to the debtors right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from them, the period of limitation doesnt begin until the debtor 
(Mr H) has discovered the concealment, or it could with reasonable diligence have been 
discovered by him  and section 32(2) says that deliberate commission of a breach of duty 
which is unlikely to be discovered for some time amounts to deliberate concealment of the 
facts in the breach.
For section 32 to apply here, its important to recognise that Mr H (and his representatives) 
need to demonstrate and provide evidence to support any alleged deliberate concealment by 
C.
The CMC have based their arguments on a belief the loan agreement was unlawful and 
unenforceable under FSMA. And Mr H only became aware of that more recently. But as Ive 
already concluded, I believe the supplier did hold the necessary authorisation to introduce 
Mr H to BPF and arrange the loan agreed. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest they 
breached the terms of their consumer credit authorisation. And as I havent found any other 
evidence to suggest theres been any deliberate concealment or breach, I dont think section 
32 is likely to apply here.
In response to our investigators findings, the CMC said they werent aware a claim under 
the CCA had been investigated by BPF, or that BPF had raised a limitation defence. As Ive 
already stated, theres no evidence that either Mr H or the CMC had previously submitted a 
claim to BPF. So, I wouldnt ordinarily be able to consider any complaint relating to a claim 
that hadnt already been submitted, considered and responded to by BPF. The DISP rules 
mean that this service only has powers to consider whether the outcome of a complaint was 
fair and reasonable. This service doesnt have powers to decide on the outcome of a legal 
claim. 
Here, the additional points raised by the CMC were forwarded to BPF by this service for 
consideration and comment given I would expect any Grounds of misrepresentation to 
have been addressed by them first. BPF told this service they believe any claim is likely to 
be out of time under the LA. And while only a court has the power to decide that I dont think 
BPFs response here was unreasonable for the reasons Ive already explained.
Suitability of the loan and the credit assessment
The CMC say that BPF havent shown anything to prove that it assessed the affordability or 
suitability of the loan. Again, this complaint point hasnt been raised with BPF. And the CMC 
also hasnt provided anything to show that the loan was unaffordable or unsuitable for Mr H.Ive noted that the CMC refer to the rules and guidance within CONC  the part of the FCA 
handbook which relates to consumer credit. The DISP rules that support this services 
powers say that we generally cant consider a complaint unless its referred to us within six 
years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought to reasonably have known, that he had cause to complain.
The event, in this case, is the credit assessment that BPF did (or didnt) carry out in or 
around March 2010. If follows that this part of Mr Hs complaint shouldve been referred to 
this service by no later than March 2016  six years from the date Mr H took the loan out. 
The three-year rule could possibly apply. But given the CMC have confirmed that Mr H 
repaid the loan in May 2010, and Ive seen no evidence the loan caused any financial 
difficulty, I cant reasonably say that would apply here. And because the period since the 
event exceeds these time limits, this service wouldnt have the power to look at it.
Summary
Im satisfied Mr Hs introduction to BPF was appropriately authorised;
Claims under the relevant sections of the CCA havent been submitted by either Mr H 
or the CMC directly to BPF;
Having forwarded details of Mr Hs alleged grounds for misrepresentation to BPF, Im 
satisfied they acted reasonably in concluding that any claims are likely to be out of 
time under the relevant provisions or the LA;
I dont believe there are any grounds upon which I can properly say that the loan or 
ay associated agreement created an unfair relationship between Mr H and BPF that 
can be considered in time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman