DRN-3436144
The complaint
T, a business, complains Barclays Bank Plc declined an application for a credit card without 
good reason. Mr L is bringing this complaint on behalf of T.
What happened
Mr L applied for a credit card, on behalf of T. Barclays declined the application and sent T a 
letter to confirm this. On the letter it said T could appeal the decision.
Mr L rang the number on the letter, to appeal the decision, and was given an email address 
to send the appeal to. Mr L asked to speak to the person sending the letter but was told he 
couldnt speak to that person.
Mr L then called to complain and the line went quiet, and the call ended. Mr L came to this 
service to raise the complaint.
Barclays sent a final response letter and said it couldnt find any application from Mr L. 
Barclays said it would have declined the application as Mr L already held a credit card, and 
paid Mr L £25 for the poor service he received in trying to set a complaint up.
An investigator looked into things and sent Barclays its own letter showing the credit card 
being declined. Barclays said this was a business credit card, so it would start the complaint 
process again and respond in eight weeks.
Barclays responded to the investigator to say it declined the credit card because of credit 
scoring, it acknowledged the calls could have been better, but it hadnt stopped Mr L 
appealing the decision.
The investigator looked into things and didnt think Ts complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly in declining the credit card, the application 
hadnt met Barclays criteria.
And the investigator thought Mr L had been given the opportunity to appeal the decision, but 
couldnt see any emails had been sent to the appeals address.
Mr L didnt accept this outcome. Mr L said Barclays hadnt responded inside the eight weeks 
and couldnt understand what the person on the phone had said. Mr L said the investigator 
hadnt understood the complaint and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Barclays declined Ts application for a credit card. Barclays sent a letter 
and explained why it had declined the application, it hadnt met the lending criteria Barclays 
has and this was because of information held at credit reference agencies.
The Standard of Lending Practice: businesses customers lays out what Barclays should do if 
it declines a lending application. In short, Barclays should tell T why it declined the 
application, and I think it did.
Barclays said the information held at credit reference agencies meant the application didnt 
meet Barclays criteria. The rules say Barclays should give T the details of the credit 
reference agencies it used, and it did.
The rules say Barclays should signpost T to other forms of finance, and it did. The decline 
letter lists alternate finance options and offers to refer T to these platforms, with Ts 
agreement, or T can approach them direct.
The rules also say Barclays should offer T the right to appeal the lending decision. The letter 
Barclays sent T says it has a right to appeal. The letter says if youd like to register an 
appeal, call us. Its not unreasonable for Mr L to think hed be able to appeal the decision 
over the phone.
Mr L called this number and was told he couldnt appeal over the phone but was instead 
given an email address to send the appeal to. I dont think this was done to frustrate Mr L or 
stop him appealing the decision.
Ive listened to the call Mr L had with Barclays, and I think the advisor clearly explained what 
Mr L had to do if he wanted to appeal the decision. Mr L took down the email address and 
repeated it back to the advisor. Im satisfied Mr L knew what to do to appeal the decision.
Although the letter Barclays sent could be clearer, I dont think Mr L was stopped from 
appealing the decision.
Barclays says it has no record of receiving an email to appeal the decision, and Mr L hasnt 
said he sent one. The appeal needed to be made within 30 days of the application, so it 
would have been too late to appeal by the time T brought the complaint to this service.
Mr L also asked, in the call, to speak to the person whod signed the letter. Mr L says he was 
told this person didnt exist. Ive listened carefully to this part of the call, and although Mr L 
says he doesnt think the person exists, the advisor only says the person wasnt available for 
calls.
The title of the person who signed the letter is Managing Director, Business Cards. I dont 
think its unreasonable this person wouldnt take calls. And Im satisfied this person exists, 
their professional profile is available online.
Mr L says Barclays took longer than eight weeks to respond to the investigator when a new 
complaint was set up. The rules around business responses are laid down by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, and Barclays must respond within eight weeks or provide Mr L with 
referral rights to this service.
Mr L had already brought his complaint to this service, so I dont think a longer wait than 
eight weeks changed anything here. Mr L was aware of his rights to come to this service, 
and whilst any delay is frustrating, I dont think the delay was unreasonably long.
I think Barclays made a reasonable decision to decline Ts application for a credit card. The 
application was assessed and declined because of information held at credit reference 
agencies. I think this was clearly explained to Mr L. I dont agree Barclays declined the credit card without good reason.
Im not sure what would have happened had an appeal been made, but I dont agree 
Barclays stopped Mr L appealing the decision.
Mr L has explained he experienced quite serious medical issues because of the decline, and 
the calls he made. Whilst Im very sympathetic to this, I dont believe Barclays made an error 
in declining the card.
Since Barclays didnt make an error, I dont think it would be fair for Barclays to compensate 
Mr L for the effect the decline had on him.
Barclays did acknowledge it could have handled a call better and logged a complaint for 
Mr L and paid £25 to compensate for this. In the circumstances, I think this is a fair amount 
to pay. The failure to log a complaint didnt stop Mr L bringing his complaint to this service.
Mr L would like Barclays to agree a credit card for T with a good borrowing limit. Since I dont 
think Barclays made an error when it declined the credit card, I wont be asking Barclays to 
open a credit card, although Barclays has said T is free to apply again.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, but since Barclays Bank Plc has already paid 
£25 to compensate for the poor service, Im not asking it to do more to resolve Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman