DRN-4355407
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) did not treat him 
fairly when he asked it to help him obtain refunds for goods he bought using his AESEL 
charge card.
What happened
While he was overseas Mr J bought branded items from two shops. He subsequently found 
out that the brands do not sell their goods in that country. Mr J provided AESEL with 
confirmation of this point from one of the brand owners. 
Moreover the goods themselves were branded and marketed one way but the receipts the 
shops gave him contain different details. Therefore Mr J thinks he was misled about the 
authenticity of the goods and wants his money back. 
Mr J was unable to obtain refunds from the shops he bought the goods from, although he 
tells us he tried to get refunds. But when he contacted the shops each time he was told the 
manager was out and only the manager could authorise a refund. Mr J considered he was 
getting the run-around from the shops and would never be able to obtain a refund from them, 
therefore he complained to AESEL.
AESEL indicated that it could try to get Mr J a refund under a process known as chargeback 
(Ill explain the ins and outs of chargeback in the what Ive decided and why section 
below).The reason for the chargebacks would be the goods sold to Mr J were not as 
described.  But on this occasion AESEL said the requirements for a chargeback had not 
been met, in that Mr J had not complied with the shops exchange policies (which seemed to 
be the same). Specifically, AESEL told Mr J that the shops provided stronger evidence 
than Mr J in response to the chargeback claims, (this stronger evidence being the exchange 
policies). Therefore, there was no realistic prospect that it could obtain refunds under the 
chargeback process. 
Dissatisfied, Mr J complained to our service. Mr J complained about AESELs handling of the 
chargeback in general. He also highlighted that in his opinion AESEL had given him 
inconsistent information. In particular, at first it told him that if his money was refunded to him 
under chargeback this decision could not be reversed and then it went back on this.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint. Our investigator recommended that Mr 
Js complaint be upheld.
Mr J accepted our investigators recommendation AESEL did not. In rejecting our 
investigators recommendation AESEL relied on its previous stance. It also said Mr J had not 
proved that he tried to return the goods, but it did not say, when we asked, what specific 
proof it would have required over and above what hed already provided, and why it did not 
ask Mr J for this. Later AESEL said in any event Mr J had not demonstrated that the goods 
sold to him were not as described.
AESEL asked that an ombudsman review Mr Js complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
As Mr J paid for the goods using his charge card and wanted a refund, Ive thought 
about whether AESEL dealt with his request fairly. The chargeback process is relevant 
in this case.
Chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card 
issuers and merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. In 
this instance the shops were the merchants.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for AESEL to ask for a payment Mr J 
made to be refunded. Those circumstances include where goods are not as described by 
the shops Mr J paid. 
There is no guarantee that a chargeback will succeed, and it can be opposed or defended by 
the financial institution which received the card payment (it will represent the merchant), who 
may not agree that the chargeback is valid. If no side to a chargeback is willing to concede 
then the card scheme itself can be asked to make a ruling by a process known as arbitration. 
I would expect a charge card provider, approached by a customer looking to dispute a card 
payment for goods, to consider whether it had valid grounds for raising a chargeback, and to 
do so if it would appear that a chargeback would both be compliant with the card scheme 
rules and have reasonable prospects of succeeding. As part of its approach Id also expect 
the charge card provider to tell its customer precisely what information was needed, select 
the right chargeback reason code and proceed to arbitration should this be appropriate.
Therefore it follows that if I am to order AESEL to refund all or part of the cost of the goods, I 
must be satisfied that it acted incorrectly in the way it made a chargeback claim under the 
chargeback regulations. Ive looked at what AESEL did, and the information that Ive got 
about relevant regulations and I think AESEL acted incorrectly at times. Ill explain why I say 
this below.
Mr J was not seeking to exchange the goods, rather he wanted to return them for a refund. 
Moreover, there is nothing as far as I am aware that says that in order to comply with the 
chargeback rules Mr J would have to comply with an irrelevant policy. AESEL has not 
provided information to allow me to investigate this point further despite being asked to do 
so. 
In the circumstances, it is unclear to me why AESEL did not take the chargeback process as 
far as it could. On the face of it there was a substantial difference between what the shops 
said they were selling to Mr J and what he actually received. It is my understanding that the 
chargeback rules would have protected Mr J in these instances by allowing him the 
opportunity to make his case and seek refunds.
Moreover, I find that AESEL did not always make it clear to Mr J what information it needed. 
I also find that it seemingly did not always take on board the information that he did provide. I 
am satisfied that in behaving like this AESEL treated Mr J unfairly.It follows, that taking into account the relevant regulations and the likelihood that Mr Js 
claims would have succeeded, I think AESEL acted incorrectly and therefore it is fair and 
reasonable that AESEL refund Mr J for the total amounts he paid to the shops which 
appears to be £531.73 + £183.52 = £715.25. As far as I am aware none of these sums have 
been refunded to Mr J already.
I also find that AESELs behaviour most likely caused Mr J unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in that it did not handle the chargeback appropriately at times as Ive 
mentioned above. I am satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to make an award for this. I find 
that £100 is an appropriate amount for this award.
However,  based on the information Ive got available to me, Im not persuaded that AESEL 
did not make it clear that a refund granted under the chargeback process could be reversed. 
And, in any event,  even if one person or more, mistakenly said this to Mr J it does not mean 
AESEL was obliged to stick to this no matter what.
My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) must:
Refund the total amount that Mr J paid to the shops for the items that were the 
subject matter of the chargebacks and treat Mr Js account as if the refunds had 
been made at time the chargebacks were raised.
Pay Mr J £100 for distress and inconvenience.
It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr J accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% a year simple.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr J can reclaim the tax if he is able to.
Mr J should refer back to AESEL if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman