DRN-4368920
The complaint
Ms S complains that Paratus AMC Limited overvalued her property to induce her to borrow 
more. The property was later taken into voluntary possession and sold. Ms S says she isnt 
responsible for the shortfall debt.
What happened
Ms S bought a property in 2004. She re-mortgaged with Paratus in 2006, borrowing about 
£230,000. Ms S switched to interest only payments in 2008.
The property was taken into voluntary possession and sold for about £120,000 in May 2021. 
Paratus has asked Ms S to pay the shortfall debt.
An ombudsman previously looked into and issued a final decision regarding Ms Ss 
complaint about the valuation and sale of her property in 2021. I wont be considering these 
issues again here.
Ms S raised a further complaint. She says valuations carried out on behalf of Paratus in 
2006 and 2007 were incorrect and induced her to borrow more  which resulted in her now 
having a shortfall debt. She says the issues raised in the 2021 valuation report regarding the 
saleability of the property were in place in 2006.
Our investigator said Paratus was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the valuer when 
deciding whether to lend. 
Ms S didnt agree. She asked that we look into her complaint as a whole, including the mis-
selling of the mortgage and why her property was marketed as having only two bedrooms 
and for less than she paid for it nearly 20 years ago. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I must be clear here about the complaint Im looking into. An ombudsman has already issued 
a decision about the valuations and sale of the property in 2021 and Im not looking into 
those issues again here. The complaint Ms S then raised is about the valuations in 2006 and 
2007. In summary, these valued her property at twice the amount that it was sold for in 2021. 
Ms S says the same issues that the 2021 valuation said affected the saleability of the 
property were in place at that time, so this doesnt explain the fall in value. Ms S says she 
was induced to borrow more due to her property being overvalued. As a result, shes been 
left with a larger shortfall debt. 
Paratus didnt itself carry out the valuations. So as this complaint is about Paratus, what I 
need to consider is whether Paratus made an error or treated Ms S unfairly when it 
instructed the valuations or when it relied on them when making a lending decision.
Ms S applied to Paratus for a mortgage, via a broker, in March 2006. The property was 
valued on behalf of Paratus in 2006 at £280,000. The valuation was carried out by a suitably 
qualified professional  a surveyor registered with the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS). The valuation report didnt raise any concerns about the property. The 
valuer said there were no local factors likely to affect saleability.
Ms S applied for further borrowing in 2007 (its not clear that she took this out). The property 
was valued at £280,000 in mid-2007. The valuation was carried out by a RICS surveyor, and 
no concerns were raised about the property. 
Following the valuations and sale of the property in 2021 Ms S raised concerns about the 
valuations carried out in 2006 and 2007. 
Ms S already owned the property in 2006 when she applied to re-mortgage with Paratus, so 
the valuations had no bearing on the amount she paid for the property. Ms S says that 
Paratus induced her to borrow more by overvaluing the property.
The mortgage offer says Ms S applied for the mortgage via a broker on a non-advised basis. 
Ms S applied for a mortgage of £228,000. The mortgage application said the purpose of the 
loan was debt consolidation. In the mortgage application, the property value was estimated 
at £285,000. Ms S signed the declaration related to the application on 21 March 2006. The 
valuation report is dated 22 March 2006. The mortgage offer was issued on 24 March 2006 
for the amount Ms S had applied for (plus fees added to the loan).
The basis on which lenders offer a mortgage is that, if necessary, they can get their money 
back through the sale of the property. Paratus instructed a valuation of the property, to 
establish whether the property was suitable security for the loan Ms S applied for and to help 
it make a decision whether to lend. 
Paratus instructed a suitably qualified valuer  a RICS surveyor  to value Ms Ss property in 
2006 and 2007. I havent seen evidence that Paratus influenced the valuations or that it had 
any reason to be concerned that the valuations were incorrect. I think it was reasonable for 
Paratus to rely on the expert opinion of the valuers when making a lending decision.
Ms S says the issues raised in the 2021 valuation report were in place in 2006. To support 
this, she provided a statement from a person that had visited her property numerous times, 
planning consents from the 1960s relating to an adjacent property and a copy of a complaint 
to the local council in 2010 relating to the adjacent property. 
I can accept what Ms S says about work carried out at her property and the use of the 
adjacent property without this necessarily meaning that Paratus made an error in 2006 and 
2007. Its possible the valuers didnt, at that time, consider these matters to be significant 
enough to mention or to affect the valuation. But the 2006 and 2007 valuation reports didnt 
mention these issues or raise concerns about how they might affect the saleability of the 
property. I cant fairly find that Paratus ought to have been aware of these issues and how 
they might, in future, affect the value of the property.
The available evidence suggests the 2006 valuation was slightly lower than Ms Ss own 
estimate of the property value. It seems Ms S signed the mortgage application (with the 
amount she applied to borrow) before the valuation. If this was more than Ms S wanted to 
borrow, I dont think Paratus could have known this.I dont know why there was such a change in the value of the property between 2006/2007 
and 2021. I appreciate Ms S is now in a difficult position, with a shortfall debt to pay. But 
even if the valuations in 2006 and 2007 were incorrect, I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Paratus should have known this at the time.
Taking all this into account, I dont think it was wrong or unfair for Paratus to rely on the 
valuation reports when deciding whether to offer mortgage lending to Ms S. 
From what Ms S has said, shes not in a position to repay the shortfall debt immediately. 
Ms S will need to talk to Paratus with the aim of agreeing an affordable arrangement to 
repay the debt. Id expect Paratus to treat Ms S fairly, in accordance with rules on mortgage 
regulation. Ms S might consider taking advice from an independent financial adviser about 
her options. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman