DRN-4187020
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) mis-sold a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan to top up her pension benefits but didnt 
make her aware of the in-house alternatives and she suffered losses as a consequence, but 
Aviva wont offer fair compensation for this.  
Mrs R is represented by a claims management company (CMC), but I will just refer to Mrs R 
except where necessary.
What happened
Mrs R was advised to take out the FSAVC with Aviva in 1989. She says it didnt make her 
aware of the in-house alternatives offered by the Teachers Pension Scheme (the TPS) as 
required by the financial services regulations at the time. These were the in-house AVC (the 
TAVC) administered by Prudential and added years where additional years of membership 
of the TPS could be bought. Mrs R paid contributions to the FSAVC until she retired in 2004 
and took benefits from the plan in 2007. 
Mrs R says she wasnt aware of any potential problem with the advice until August 2022 
when she saw an advert from by her CMC. A complaint was raised. Aviva said there was no 
evidence shed been told about the in-house alternatives, so it upheld the complaint. It said it 
didnt think she would have taken the added years option in 1989.As shed wanted to retire 
early and had decided to pay further AVC contributions by joining the TAVC in 1997. It 
carried out a loss assessment based on the difference in the charges between the TAVC 
and the FSAVC, but only until 1997, as it said she was aware of the alternative options by 
then. Aviva calculated a loss of £944.83 gross and £803.11 net after an allowance for basic 
rate income tax. 
The CMC disagreed. It said losses for the whole period should be considered as Mrs R 
continued to rely on Avivas advice. It said the alternative loss calculation basis considering 
added years should have been used, as she could have afforded this option at the time. Mrs 
R referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator asked Aviva for its file. It sent this but said it didnt think our service could 
consider the complaint as it had been made too late. 
Aviva said Mrs R had either six years from when the advice was given in 1989 or three years 
from when she should reasonably have known she had cause to complain if later. It said she 
should have known this by 1997, when she joined the TAVC, and knew about the alternative 
options. So, shed had until sometime in 2000 to complain. However, Aviva didnt withdraw 
its offer to pay redress calculated on a charges basis, capped until 1997.
Our investigator said he thought our service could consider the complaint. Because whilst 
Mrs R had joined the TAVC in 1997, that didnt mean she should have suspected shed been 
given poor advice in 1989. He said had she known about the different charges in 1997, 
logically she would have stopped the contributions to the FSAVC. He said Mrs R hadnt been 
provided with specific advice by Prudential about any difference between the FSAVC and 
the TAVC and as a lay person it was unreasonable to expect her to have made a 
comparison herself.  
Our investigator then considered Mrs Rs complaint. He said Aviva accepted the policy had 
been mis-sold. He said as she wasnt aware she had grounds to complain about the advice 
in 1997, it wasnt fair to cap any possible loss calculation to that date either. So, the whole 
investment term to retirement should be considered. But he said it was fair to base the loss 
calculation on the difference in charges between the FSAVC and the TAVC rather than to 
added years. 
Our investigator said added year were generally regarded as an expensive and inflexible 
option at the time when compared to the projected benefits from AVCs. And that arguments 
made now about the relative merits and risks compared to AVCs were often made with 
hindsight. He said whilst some added years may have been affordable, Aviva couldnt give 
Mrs R advice about them. He said her attitude to risk (ATR) had been recorded as average 
by Aviva, not risk adverse. This indicated she was willing to take risk and the projected 
benefits from the FSAVC would have been greater than added years from the same level of 
contributions. And it was likely she would have opted for the AVC option over added years. 
Aviva didnt agree that Mrs Rs complaint was one our service could consider and said its 
proposal to calculate any loss up to 1997 was fair. 
The CMC said the loss calculation should be based on added years. It said Mrs Rs initial 
contribution to the FSAVC would have purchased 4.5 added years. And that basing any 
decision on the ATR recorded on the fact find was completely absurd, as it was already 
established the FSAVC was mis-sold. It said that the ATR recorded didnt reflect Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time. As apart from a low-cost endowment she held no risk-based 
investment products. And it was unlikely shed have taken a risk with her retirement savings 
and would have opted for the guaranteed added years. 
Our investigator said his opinion hadnt changed.
As neither Mrs R nor Aviva agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that our service can consider the complaint and that it should 
be upheld in part. Ill explain why.
Why we can consider this complaint
We cant consider every complaint we receive. The complaints we can look into are set 
down in the rules under which we operate. Our rules are written by the regulator, and flow 
from legislation, specifically the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules say we:
cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
If a complaint is brought outside these timescales our service can only consider it if either 
the business consents, or I think something truly prevented it being brought in time. Aviva 
gave the advice to take out the FSAVC plan in 1989, this is clearly more than six years ago, 
and Mrs R is out of time on this part of the rule.
For the second part of the rule, its important to note that this doesnt require Mrs R to have 
had certain knowledge of cause for complaint on a specific basis. The sense that something 
wasnt right might be enough to place an individual on a path to discovery of an actual cause 
for complaint, if they reasonably acted on that unease, in other words the ought reasonably 
to have been aware part of the rule.
Ive thought about the available evidence and arguments made by both parties. And where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
It is generally the case that the in-house TAVC had lower charges than most FSAVC plans. 
Mrs R says she only became aware Avivas advice might have caused her losses when saw 
an advertisement placed by her CMC in 2022. Aviva says as she should have known this by 
1997 when she joined the TAVC. And if not, then certainly by the time she took benefits from 
the FSAVC. 
Aviva makes a number of points about what Mrs R should have known as a result of joining 
the TVAC in 1997. And what Prudential, who ran the TAVC, were required to do at the time 
and its responsibilities in advising her. It says this information and advice would have made 
her aware about the charging differential between the in-house AVC and FSAVC. Leading 
her to question the merits of continuing the FSAVC.  But it also said it didnt agree that 
knowing the charges were higher on the FSAVC would have led her to cease contributions 
to it as there were many reasons a customer would be willing to accept higher charges. 
Including that the plan was written to age 55 to facilitate early retirement which wasnt 
possible with the in-house alternative. And if Mrs R wasnt aware in 1997, she would have 
been able to see the difference in charges and projected benefits between the TAVC and 
FSAVC as they ran in parallel subsequently. 
Ive considered these arguments. Mrs R clearly knew there were alternative options by 1997. 
But she says she doesnt recall being given individual advice by Prudential, only listening to 
a group presentation. We dont know exactly what was said in this presentation. Prudentials 
literature from the time indicated charges for the TAVC could be lower than FSAVCs, but it 
could only talk about its own products. So, I think it is unlikely that there would have been 
specific discussion about the merits or otherwise of existing FSAVC plans those listening to 
the presentation might have had. There is no evidence that any comparison was made 
between the in-house AVC and the existing FSAVC with Aviva.
And I dont think it is reasonable to say Mrs R should have linked general comments about 
charges that might have been made during a presentation or in set out in a leaflet that might 
have been provided to her, to a potential problem with the advice given by Aviva around 
eight years before. 
If instead Mrs R had been given compliant advice about taking another FSAVC or increasing 
her contributions in 1997, the situation would have been different. By then the regulations 
required there to be an actual discussion about in-house AVC options and the generic 
difference between these and FSAVCs and the likelihood that in-house charges might be lower. Had this happened this might have raised a concern about the earlier advice. 
Concerns that I think would logically lead her to at least redirect contributions to the TAVC. 
But there is no evidence that such a discussion took place. 
Im not persuaded that comparing annual statements or the eventual benefits paid by the 
TAVC and FSAVC would have alerted Mrs R to any charging differences. I havent seen 
details of how the TAVC was invested, but the default position with this arrangement was 
Prudentials traditional with profit fund. The operation of which was quite different to the unit 
linked Managed and Equity funds held in the FSAVC. And I dont think it is reasonable to 
expect a non-expert to interpretate the information on annual statements, possibly sent 
several months apart, and conclude there was cause for concern about one of them. 
I dont think the evidence shows that Mrs R should have become reasonably aware she had 
grounds to complain about Avivas advice before she did.  So, I think our service can 
consider this complaint.
Aviva doesnt dispute the FSAVC may have been mis-sold. So, the issue for me to decide is 
whether the compensation calculation basis offered by Aviva is fair in the circumstances of 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Period of calculation
As I dont think Mrs R was aware there may have been a problem until 2022, if follows that I 
dont think it is fair to cap the loss calculation to 1997 when she joined the TAVC scheme. As 
shed continued to pay contributions to the FSAVC I think its reasonable to assume this was 
because she was still relying on Avivas initial advice and the period to retirement should be 
considered. 
Basis of calculation
The CMC argues this should be on the added years basis, as Mrs R could afford them. And 
was risk adverse and added years were more appropriate to her ATR. But Im not persuaded 
by the arguments made here.  
 
Ive thought about what Mrs R might have done in 1989 had she been given the direction to 
obtain information about in-house options. There is little contemporaneous evidence to 
consider. And any comments made now could easily be influenced by hindsight. Where 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
When the advice was given the general view prevailing was that buying added years of 
service in the main pension scheme was an expensive and fairly inflexible option. Added 
years provided guaranteed benefits, costed on a conservative basis to minimise the 
possibility that any liability for paying the extra benefits would fall back to the employer or 
taxpayer. The CMC says the contributions paid to the FSAVC could have funded around 4.5 
added years. Although that would assume that the contributions continued to age 60, which 
they didnt as she retired at age 55, as it seems shed long planned to do so. 
In comparison both in-house AVCs and FSAVCs didnt offer guaranteed benefits but were 
expected to provide better investment returns in the future than most have actually achieved. 
So, the benefits projected for the same level of contribution were often rather higher than 
those from added years and could be perceived as a more cost-effective option as a 
consequence. And contributions could be stopped, reduced, or increased within the allowable limits at any time, which generally wasnt the case for added years which required 
a bigger commitment. 
Whilst it appears Mrs R could afford the commitment of added years, it also appears she 
intended to retire early and her FSAVC was set up to age 55. If early retirement was taken 
any added years benefits would be pro-rated down in proportion to the number of years 
contributions had been paid compared to the original term. Then, as with the main TPS 
benefits the added years would be reduced on actuarial basis to reflect the early payment. 
This could result in significantly lower benefits than expected with no clear idea of what 
they would be at retirement. AVCs in comparison would have seemed more straightforward 
where early retirement was being considered.
And when Mrs R did have more information about in-house alternatives and could have 
made enquiries about added years in 1997, she chose to make further AVC contributions. I 
think this indicates that she was comfortable with the investment risk presented by the AVC 
compared to the guarantees offered by the added years option. 
Avivas adviser recorded Mrs Rs ATR on the fact find as Average, the other options being 
Cautious and Speculative. Theres no explanation of what these classifications mean or 
how the ATR was determined. But Mrs R signed the fact find and Im not aware that she has 
contested the limited information recorded. Presumably, then, she was content that the ATR 
reasonably reflected her view on investments. And she did have an investment backed 
mortgage when she took out the FSAVC. If she was as risk adverse as her CMC has argued 
I think she would have opted instead for the risk-free repayment mortgage alternative. 
So, considering everything I think it is more likely than not that Mrs R would have opted for 
the apparently cheaper and more flexible AVC rather than the seemingly expensive and 
inflexible added years option in 1989. Just as she did in 1997, when she did have further 
information. And had she had this information in 1989 I think she wouldve taken the in-
house AVC option. As this was likely to have forecast higher benefits than the FSAVC for the 
same contribution due to differences in charges. 
That means I think Avivas offer to resolve the mis-selling complaint by calculating any 
potential loss on a charges basis is a fair one provided it is applied to the investment term to 
retirement. 
Putting things right
Aviva should update its loss calculation on a charges basis to reflect the investment term to 
retirement. 
If this shows a loss it should pay the compensation to Mrs R having made a notional 
allowance for tax. The initial calculation it prepared allowed for a 15% allowance, applicable 
for a basic rate taxpayer. Im not aware that Mrs R has queried this but if that assumption 
isnt appropriate, she will need to provide Aviva with evidence of her tax status so that this 
may be adjusted accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to update its loss calculation on a charges basis to 
reflect the investment term to retirement and pay compensation accordingly to Mrs R, 
reflecting her tax position. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman