DRN-1963940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) have provided an unfair 
settlement amount for part of their home insurance claim. Which was for various personal 
items taken from their home during a burglary.
What happened
At the end of 2017, Mr and Mrs T bought a home insurance policy with AXA. The policy 
covered both their buildings and contents. Mr and Mrs T had some high value items, so they 
added those to their policy as specified items. They specified a watch, engagement ring, a 
mobile phone and wedding ring.
Mr and Mrs T renewed their policy at the end of 2018, and the same items remained 
specified on the policy. A few months after renewal, their home was broken into and items 
stolen.
Mr and Mrs T claimed for the damage done to their home by the burglars and for the stolen 
items. Because of the high value of the claim, AXA appointed loss adjusters to deal with it on 
their behalf. The claim took some time to resolve. And Mr and Mrs T werent paid the full 
value of the items that had been taken. 
AXA said this was because there was a limit within the policy of £5,000 for unspecified, high 
risk items. It said in terms of the jewellery that was unspecified, this was the maximum it 
could pay under the policy. So, it offered that amount in respect of the jewellery not 
specifically detailed on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T accepted that there were limits on the policy in this respect, and that they 
wouldnt receive the full value of items which they hadnt specified. But they were unhappy 
about three particular elements of the claim, which related to specified items.
As stated above, Mr and Mrs T had noted as specified items a watch belonging to Mr T and 
Mrs Ts engagement ring. But AXA declined to offer settlement for them. AXA relied on a 
policy term which says:
For theft claims, cover isnt provided:

For jewellery or watches worth more than £5,000 individually when Youre not 
wearing them, unless kept in a locked safe or under Your Personal Supervision
AXA said the watch and engagement ring, which were both worth over £5,000 individually 
werent locked in a safe, or under Mr and Mrs Ts supervision. So, they said the policy didnt 
cover these items.
AXA also declined cover for Mr and Mrs Ts wedding rings - which were a specified item as 
well  because they were specified as Wedding Ring, not rings. Mr and Mrs T said that 
they had added the total of three of their wedding rings together, and just put this as one 
item under the policy. 
And they declined cover for watches belonging to Mr Ts parents which had been left with Mr 
and Mrs T for safekeeping while his parents were on holiday  as they said Mr and Mrs T 
didnt have an insurable interest in these items.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with AXAs decision. So, they complained about this and about 
the way AXA and its loss adjusters dealt with the claim. AXA looked at the complaint but 
replied only to the part about the watch and engagement ring. They relied on the term set 
out above. They said that, because Mr and Mrs T had bought the policy online, theyd been 
directed to read the policy booklet in full. So they shouldve been aware of this condition, and 
complied with it, by keeping the items in a safe when they werent being personally 
supervised.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with AXAs response. So, they brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked at it and thought that it should be upheld in part. She said that the 
condition AXA relied on when declining the claim for the watch and the engagement ring was 
onerous and so it should have been highlighted to Mr and Mrs T  but it wasnt. So it wasnt 
fair to rely on the term, when Mr and Mrs T werent made sufficiently aware of it.
And she was persuaded that Mr and Mrs T had meant to insure their wedding rings  not just 
one. She thought that the way AXA had handled the claims was confusing and that they 
should compensate Mr and Mrs T for this. But she didnt think they should have dealt with 
the claim for Mr Ts parents watches any differently.
AXA didnt accept our investigators view. So, Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The watch and engagement ring
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim for these items because Mr and Mrs T hadnt stored 
them in a safe when they werent wearing them. Theyve said that Mr and Mrs T were 
advised to read the full policy document when they bought the policy  so they should have 
been aware this was a condition of cover. And having been made aware of the term, they 
shouldve complied with it.
Our investigator didnt think telling a consumer to read the policy booklet, and relying on 
them to do that, was good enough to alert them that for cover to be provided they needed to 
take extra steps  by purchasing a safe to store high value items.  I agree.  
Mr and Mrs T believed that specifying the items - and paying the additional premium they 
assumed theyd been charged - meant the items were covered. But the term sets out a 
significant requirement over and above this.  That shouldve been brought to Mr and Mrs Ts 
attention. And I cant see that it was.
Ive looked at the application form Mr T filled in when he first bought the policy. He was 
asked if he wanted to add any AXA class as high risk. And he was asked Do you have a 
safe in the Property?  Mr T replied that he didnt.Id have expected the policy documents generated by Mr Ts answers to state that the cover 
he believed hed bought was only available if he bought, and used, a safe.  But they dont. 
The policy schedule sets out that the watch and engagement ring are specified items. And 
the sum theyre insured for. The summary of cover mentions the relevant section of the 
policy booklet. But it doesnt highlight that theres an additional requirement for that cover. 
So I dont think its reasonable for AXA to rely on this condition and not pay Mr and Mrs T for 
his watch and her engagement ring. For this reason, I think AXA should settle the claim for 
Mr Ts watch and Mrs Ts engagement ring.
The wedding rings
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim for their wedding rings, because they were described in 
the specified items as wedding ring. Mr and Mrs T had three wedding rings altogether  but 
only claimed for two as the third was being worn at the time of the burglary.  
The two rings taken had a combined value of just over £1,500 (the minimum value for 
specified items). But AXA didnt pay the claim for them, because they said theyd only pay 
for one. And individually they were worth less than £1,500  so theyd fall within the general 
limit for jewellery, which has been used up by other items.
Mr and Mrs T said that theyd meant to insure all three rings as specified items. But over 
various renewals, the s had been missed out of the description. Ive seen policy 
documentation from previous years and that describes the two stolen rings as 2 Platinum 
and Diamond Wedding Band  which I think is consistent with that explanation.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs T have said. And Ive seen the value included 
in the specified items list is much larger than either of the individual rings Mr and Mrs T want 
to claim for. That persuades me that they thought they were insuring them collectively. And 
the application form explains that high risk items (such as jewellery) are included in general 
contents cover so long as each item or set is worth less than £1,500. A set isnt defined 
either on the form or in the policy document. But I dont think its unreasonable to say that 
wedding rings are a set. 
I appreciate the rings are  individually  worth less than the single item limit. But, as I said 
above, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs T intended to insure the wedding rings collectively. And 
they paid an additional premium for this.  So Im satisfied that its fair to settle the claim for 
the wedding rings.
Mr Ts parents watches
I dont think AXA acted unreasonably when they declined to cover Mr Ts parents watches. 
The policy covers visitors contents up to £2,500 on certain occasions. Mr and Mrs T based 
their claim on the fact that his parents regularly visited them and stayed overnight.
The policy doesnt define who is a visitor. So Ive thought about how youd generally define 
one. I think most people would consider a visitor to be someone who is in their home at the 
time an event occurs  whether or not theyre staying overnight. 
Using that definition, I dont think its right to say Mr Ts parents were visitors. They werent at 
the house or staying when the house was burgled. They were on holiday. And theyd left 
their watches with Mr and Mrs T rather than leave them at their own home. 
Its unfortunate that the steps Mr Ts parents took to try and keep their watches safe led to 
them being stolen. But, because I dont think Mr Ts parents were visitors, Im satisfied their 
items werent covered. And Ive noted that, even if they were, the items were unspecified so wouldnt have been covered in any event  as the unspecified limit had been exhausted. So, 
I dont think its reasonable to ask AXA to do anything differently here. 
Handling of the claim
AXA had to handle Mr and Mrs Ts claim promptly and fairly. Mr and Mrs T were concerned 
that this didnt happen.  
Ive seen that most of the correspondence about the claim passed between Mr T and AXAs 
loss adjuster.  There was a lot of correspondence and Mr T  understandably - asked a lot of 
questions about the claim. The loss adjuster had to liaise with a number of other people of 
the different aspects of the claim. So I dont think its surprising that there wasnt always a 
clear thread for Mr and Mrs T to follow. But that doesnt mean AXA didnt handle the claim as 
they should.
But there were aspects of the claim that I dont think were handled promptly and fairly. The 
loss adjuster emailed Mr T to tell him the settlement shed be recommending to AXA  which 
included payments for Mr Ts watch, Mrs Ts engagement ring and a wedding ring. But she 
didnt tell him that AXA might decline the recommendation  which, in the case of the watch 
and engagement ring, is what happened.
And Mr T questioned the basis of the settlement. He sent several emails which werent 
replied to  so he wasnt clear how the settlement recommendation had been reached. And 
he was asked for information hed already provided. So I can understand why he and Mrs T 
were unhappy with how the claim was handled. 
Putting things right
Because I dont think AXA did enough to bring the requirement to keep high value items in a 
safe, I think that AXA should accept that part of Mr and Mrs Ts claim and pay them the 
amounts for Mr Ts watch and Mrs Ts engagement ring calculated by AXAs valuer. And I 
think AXA should pay the validated sums for the stolen wedding rings. 
AXA should also pay simple interest on these at the rate of 8% from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible.
Mr and Mrs T also complained about the way their claim was handled. Having their home 
broken into was undoubtedly very upsetting. It was reasonable for AXA to investigate the 
claim thoroughly before deciding how to settle it. And, given the amount of correspondence 
involved I dont think its fair to say that AXA didnt deal with that properly.
But I do think Mr and Mrs T were caused extra stress by the loss adjuster sharing her 
recommendation without making clear the figures it contained werent final. I think Mr and 
Mrs T should be compensated for this extra stress.  I think £100 reflects the trouble and 
upset this failing caused them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK plc and directing them to pay the following sums:
The validated sums for Mr Ts watch (£7,790), Mrs Ts engagement ring (£7,000) and 
the two wedding rings (£1,522);
Simple interest on the above amounts calculated at the rate of 8% simple per annum, 
from the date of loss, to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
£100 for the trouble and upset their handling of the claim caused Mr and Mrs T
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman