DRN-3565988
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have failed to refund £4,000 he lost as part 
of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr P was scammed into sending £4,000 as he was tricked into 
believing he was investing in cryptocurrency through Santander.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He considered the payment was unusual enough for 
Monzo to have intervened, as there were no similar payments that were even close to 
£4,000 having been made from his account in the previous year. 
He thought that such an intervention would have prevented the scam, and so recommended 
that Monzo refund the money. However, as there were some clear indications of something 
suspicious unfolding, the investigator also thought that Mr P should bear some responsibility 
for the loss as well, for failing to question what he was being asked to do. So, he 
recommended a deduction of 25% be made to the refund in recognition of Mr Ps 
contributory negligence.
Monzo disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it for these reasons:
Monzo have said that this payment did not trigger their fraud prevention systems, so 
they do not believe there is any reason for them to refund the money Mr P has lost. 
They have also said that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code does 
not apply to this transaction and have posed questions around what obligation they 
have to otherwise refund Mr P outside of the Code. 
I acknowledge that the CRM Code does not apply to the transaction. But Monzo 
ought to be aware of our general position on a Payment Service Providers 
safeguarding and due-diligence duties to protect customers from the risk of financial 
harm due to fraud. We have published many decisions on our website setting out 
these principles and quoting the relevant rules and regulations. It is unnecessary to 
rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr P for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at 
the time. This is because they were made by him using the legitimate security 
credentials provided by Monzo.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr P 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a payment 
service provider should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated firm such as Monzo that Mr Ps account was being subjected to unusual 
and uncharacteristic activity. I can see from Mr Ps statements that he did not have 
any recent history of making any payments over £1,000. The largest payment that 
left his account prior to this was for an amount of around £460. So, a payment of 
£4,000 represented an increase of over 700% from his normally spending pattern. 
I appreciate the payment may not have been significant in the wider scheme of 
payments that Monzo sees on a regular basis. However, good industry practice 
indicates that it is not what a banks typical customer would do that should be used 
as the benchmark for detecting suspicious activity, but whether a transaction is 
unusual or uncharacteristic for the individual customer. 
In this instance, the £4,000 payment represented a significant deviation from the 
usual activity seen on Mr Ps account and ought reasonably to have been regarded 
as unusual and out of character by Monzo. As a result, there were reasonable 
grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such as 
phoning him in order to ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the 
payments).
Had Monzo asked such questions, Im satisfied it would have become apparent at 
that point that Mr P was falling victim to an investment scam. Monzo have raised the 
point that Mr P provided inconsistent testimony and gave misleading information 
when he first reported the fraud, as he originally said he didnt recognise the payee. 
As such, Monzo do not think Mr P would have told them what he was doing if they 
had intervened.
However, I can see that Mr P was subsequently forthcoming with all the details of 
what had happened as soon as Monzo sought clarification on whether it was an 
unauthorised payment he was disputing, where he explained that he had been duped 
into making the payment by a scammer. So, while I appreciate Mr P may not have 
given full details at the very outset, I dont consider this to be an indication that he 
wouldnt have told the truth if Monzo had intervened in him making the payment. He 
hadnt been coached to lie about the purpose of the payment by the scammer, and 
there is no reason to believe that he wouldnt have told Monzo about the investment 
he thought he was making. 
Mr P has also said that at the time this happened he was going through a 
bereavement and his mental health was suffering, so I understand that he may not 
have been thinking rationally at the time, particularly amongst the stress that comes 
with realising you have lost a significant amount of money. But overall, Im not 
persuaded that Mr P would have lied to Monzo about what he was doing if he had 
been questioned. 
In light of this, I think Mr Ps losses were foreseeable to Monzo. And Im satisfied that 
had they contacted him and asked relevant questions, it would have been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. In other words, but for Monzos failure to make 
further enquiries, it would have been on actual notice that Mr P was going to suffer 
financial harm from fraud. 
Had Monzo provided Mr P with a warning, it would have likely alerted him to the 
common issues arising in relation to cryptocurrency scams which, in turn, would have 
led him to second guess the scammers credentials and why he was being asked to 
invest money by a bank. The result of this is that it would have likely stopped Mr P 
from making the payments Therefore, Im satisfied that Monzo can fairly and 
reasonably he held responsible for the loss Mr P has suffered, as I think they could 
have ultimately prevented it. 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). In this instance, I think it ought to have 
appeared highly unusual that a bank would cold call one of its customers asking 
them to invest in anything, let alone in cryptocurrency, which banks such as 
Santander do not deal in. Mr P has also said himself that he thought the investment 
too good to be true at times. So, on that basis I think it would be fair and reasonable 
for him to share responsibility for the loss he has sustained. In all the circumstances, 
I consider it would be fair for Monzo to reduce compensation by 25%.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to refund 
the money Mr P lost as a result of the scam, less a 25% deduction in recognition of Mr Ps 
contributory negligence.
Monzo should also pay 8% simply interest per annum on this amount, from the date of loss 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman