DRN-3030250
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited gave him incorrect values for his investments 
when he wanted to cash them in. 
What happened
Mr W started two investments in 1993, each holding £5,000 worth of units. Specifically, 
3,203.075 units each. 
Mr W sent Scottish Widows a letter in January 2020, saying he wanted to cash his 
investments in. They valued them at £20,676.41 each. But this was based on each 
investment holding 1,157.888 units. 
Mr Ws financial advisor questioned this with Scottish Widows. Initially, Scottish Widows 
agreed thered been a mistake, and revalued each investment based on them holding 
3,203.075 units. But in October 2020, Scottish Widows realised what had actually happened.
The company running the investment had changed over the years. In September 1999, that 
seemed to mean Mr Ws money was put into a different fund. And when that happened, the 
number of units he held changed, because the two funds had different unit prices. 
Weve asked Scottish Widows for details of the unit prices at the time of the switch. Given 
how long ago it was, they dont have precise details. But they have shown us some redacted 
details for other customers, who had invested in the same funds at roughly the same time. 
These show that the first fund had a unit value of 279.5p on 4 May 1999. And the second 
fund had a unit value of 760.5p on 1 November 1999. 
Scottish Widows explained the fund switch to Mr W, but he didnt remember being told about 
anything like that at the time. He still felt hed received less than he should when cashing in 
his investments. So he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator was satisfied the fund switch explained the discrepancy in the number of 
units Mr W had at the start and end of his investment. And he thought a £500 compensation 
payment Scottish Widows made was right to acknowledge the confusion theyd initially 
caused when dealing with the matter. 
Scottish Widows had also valued the investments in line with Mr Ws January request to 
cash them in. And they paid interest on the money at the equivalent of 8% per year, up to 
the point they paid it to Mr W. Our investigator felt that did enough to put right any delay the 
situation had caused. 
Mr W hasnt accepted that view, so the matters come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W feels hes being left out of pocket in this case. But all the evidence Ive 
seen is consistent with the fund switch explanation Scottish Widows have given for the 
discrepancy in the number of units held in his investments. I see no evidence to support 
Mr Ws claim that Scottish Widows have lost or taken his money, so Im not going to uphold 
his complaint. 
Ideally, wed have something from 1999 directly showing what happened to Mr Ws money 
when the fund switch took place. But given the time thats passed, I dont hold it against 
Scottish Widows that they dont have any records like that. 
Its helpful though to have the unit-values of the funds from May and November 1999. The 
figures above show the unit-value of the second fund was 2.72 times bigger than the first 
funds unit-value  Ive calculated that by dividing 760.5 by 279.5. 
Thats consistent with Mr W holding 2.77 times as many units in 1993 as he did in 2020  
Ive calculated that by dividing 3,203.075 by 1,157.888.
The 0.05 discrepancy there more likely than not reflects that Ive not got the September 1999 
values. Thats when Scottish Widows say the fund switch actually happened. Im satisfied 
that if I had the exact fund values, Id be able to calculate a switch that saw Mr W move from 
having 3,203.075 units in the first investment fund to 1,157.888 in the second one.
It was unfortunate Scottish Widows didnt recognise this was what happened as soon as 
Mr W raised an issue. I can appreciate some of the confusion was caused by the time that 
had passed since the fund switch took place. Plus the changes in businesses managing the 
fund over the years. But that confusion did add to the time it took to confirm to Mr W what he 
should get from cashing in his investment. So I find its right that Scottish Widows backdated 
the withdrawal value, and paid interest on the funds. 
I note Scottish Widows have also paid some compensation to acknowledge the emotional 
impact on Mr W. I find thats fair too. It would no doubt have been disappointing for Mr W to 
be told Scottish Widows initially agreed he should get more money, before they said that 
wasnt right. But the amount paid suitably stops short of trying to compensate for Mr Ws 
ongoing feeling that hes out of pocket, as that doesnt seem to be the case. 
My final decision
Based on my reasoning above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman