DRN-2778634
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Admiral Insurance Company unreasonably refused pay his claim 
for medical expenses and assistance under his travel policy following a skiing accident.
  
What happened
 Mr P sustained a skiing accident in Europe on 18 February 2020 badly fracturing his femur. 
He was taken to a public hospital by helicopter. That public hospital said he needed to be 
transferred to another hospital for an operation. That other hospital was a private hospital.
Mr P phoned Admiral and explained the situation and was assured the private hospital 
treatment would be covered.
The next day Admiral called and said it wouldnt cover treatment in a private hospital and he 
was to be moved. However, Mr P was already prepped for surgery, so the operation went 
ahead. The cost of this surgery was around £39,000. 
There were further issues with Mr Ps repatriation home to the UK which Admiral didnt cover 
either. When Mr P claimed for these expenses, Admiral refused to pay them. Mr P 
complained but Admiral wouldnt change its stance.
So, Mr P brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that Admiral should 
pay the cost of the surgery only and pay Mr P £150 compensation. Admiral didnt so agree 
so Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill 
now explain why.
Like all travel insurance policies, Admirals seeks to ensure its cover for medical treatment 
abroad doesnt operate like a private medical insurance policy, so it correctly explains the 
following as regards to what is covered:
Reasonable and necessary costs for emergency medical, surgical and hospital
treatment including an ambulance to take you to hospital. This does not include
proceduresfor any medical expenses incurred in private facilities if medically 
suitable state facilities are available, as this is not a private medical insurance policy.
It clarifies this further under whats not covered as follows:
any private medical treatment where there are adequate state facilities within a 
reasonable distance.
The call recordings are key in this case most especially the first one on 18 February 2019. 
This is key because first Mr P was making the call to inform Admiral for his requirement for 
help and secondly this is where any insurer to include Admiral needs to set and manage the 
extent of the cover available. In this call Mr P does explain that the public hospital where he 
was had told him it couldnt do his required operation and that he was being transferred. On 
the call, confirmation is given to Mr P by the adviser that private treatment would be covered.
 
Obviously, this was all a mistake on behalf of this adviser, but I dont consider Admiral 
corrected it soon enough and with appropriate notification to the hospital or indeed with any 
understanding of the medical condition of Mr P and the painkilling and pre-operative 
medication any patient in his particular circumstances would have been given at the time. 
It called him just after 9am the next day and again a few minutes later where its clear the 
name of the hospital was known. And all the repatriation details were being discussed too. 
Further the adviser also asks for a room number which would be unusual for a public 
hospital in my view. So, at that stage Im very persuaded it was fully known Mr P was going 
to have an operation in a private hospital and more so that there was no difficulty in covering 
that either. 
 
Later, in the call at around 4.30pm you can hear the difference in Mr Ps voice in that he 
sounds groggy and out of it and didnt know or understand what was being said to him. It 
appears to me being told his operation wasnt going ahead and wasnt covered was just too 
overwhelming. Since the surgery was so imminent, Ive no difficulty in accepting Mr P was 
under the influence of pre-operation medications. 
Turning to Admirals dealings with the hospital at this time to ensure the operation didnt go 
ahead, I can see it sent emails, but I dont consider that was enough. Like the investigator it 
should have telephoned or indeed sent an agent to the hospital itself which was in a large 
city, so having available agents on the ground might well have been feasible.
 
Whilst it may well have been possible for Mr Ps surgery to be done at another public 
hospital, I think however its very significant that the public hospital Mr P was initially brought 
to by the emergency services felt it wasnt equipped to do the surgery hence moving Mr P to 
a hospital which could do the surgery. I consider this is a medical decision and one which 
Admiral hasnt shown me was in any way wrong or incorrect. The medical team at that 
hospital authorised the transfer to this private hospital for the surgery Mr P required. Holding 
Mr P responsible for that medical decision doesnt seem reasonable to me. And its more 
unreasonable, given the assurances he was given on 18 and in the morning of 19 February 
2019. More so given his surgery appeared to be needed to be done very quickly which again 
isnt unusual. So, I consider Admiral needs to reconsider this part of Mr Ps claim subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of his policy with a view to paying it.
 
Once the surgery was over and its clear Mr P understood the issues, which would be 
around the morning of 20 February 2019, I agree with the investigator that Admiral were 
entitled to limit its exposure subject to medical limitations. And its clear Mr Ps sister didnt 
want him transferred to any other hospital but there was no evidence medically as to why 
this shouldnt have happened. Therefore, I dont consider Admiral should be responsible for 
these costs of the private hospital.
 
Turning to the repatriation issue. Mr P was deemed fit to fly by his medical team on 24 
February. He was told this on 21 February. Admiral explained they needed a medical update 
on his condition beyond simply a fit to fly certificate. I dont consider there was anything 
wrong with this. Admiral had a duty to understand what Mr Ps medical requirements were 
before booking any return for him. Mr P wasnt prepared to permit time for Admiral to get all this and went ahead himself and arranged his own flights. Therefore, I dont consider 
Admiral is at fault here or should refund Mr P the costs of his travel home to the UK.
I do consider Mr P was put to trouble and upset over this more so since the hospital is now 
pursuing Mr P for the costs of his operation. Therefore, I agree with the investigators 
suggestion of £150 compensation.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reconsider the costs leading up to and including Mr Ps surgery subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of his policy with a view to paying the hospital for the 
same.
Pay Mr P £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman