DRN-2098303
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased 
the credit limits on his credit cards.
What happened
Mr O had two credit cards with Barclaycard. Between 2009 and 2010 the limits on each were 
increased. In 2017 the accounts both defaulted as the required payments hadnt been made.
Mr O made a complaint to Barclaycard. He said that the credit limit increases shouldnt have 
been offered as he already had a high amount of debt at that time that he was struggling to 
keep on top of. Further he said Barclaycard should have known this as he had other credit 
accounts with Barclays and its systems should have checked all his accounts. He also said 
that he had received a refund for PPI from Barclaycard and it should have used that to pay 
off some of his debt.
Barclaycard didnt uphold his complaint. It said as the last credit limit increase had been 
made in 2010, it no longer held the information about the checks it had carried out. However 
it said that all credit limits are subject to appropriate checks. It also said that Barclaycard and 
Barclays systems arent linked, so checks of all accounts wouldnt be made and this 
information wouldnt be known without Mr O making it aware. Finally it said although it may 
use money owed to offset debt, it doesnt have to do this, so it hadnt done anything wrong 
by paying him the PPI refund.
Mr O wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said it was reasonable that Barclaycard hadnt retained the checks it had carried out 
however from looking at payments made to the credit card accounts after the limit increases, 
she thought they seemed affordable.
Mr O didnt agree. He still thought Barclays should have done more to check his financial 
position before offering the increases. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When offering lending, or additional lending, Barclaycard is required to ensure it does so 
responsibly. It needs to check whether any additional lending is affordable. And we would 
expect it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks in order to do this before offering 
credit limit increases.
Barclaycard has explained that as the last credit increase it offered Mr O was in 2010, it no 
longer holds the information it assessed to decide if it was affordable. As banks are only 
required to retain information for six years, this is reasonable. But it does mean Im not able 
to assess the checks it carried out at the time. So instead, I have looked at how Mr O 
maintained the cards after the credit increases in order to decide if they seemed to be 
affordable. As well as considering the information that would have been available to 
Barclaycard at the time they were offered to make sure it acted responsibly.
I have started by considering what information would have been available for Barclaycard to 
make an assessment. Mr O has provided details of other credit he had at the time the credit 
increases were offered. I can see that he had a substantial amount of borrowing. And that 
some of this was with Barclays. However having access to other credit isnt, in itself, a 
reason to indicate that Mr O wouldnt be able to afford increased credit limits. 
We would expect Barclaycard to check Mr Os credit score at the time it offered the 
increases. Mr O has said the other credit was taken out at around the same time the credit 
increases were offered. So it seems unlikely he would had the chance to miss payments on 
them or for adverse information to have reached his credit file. So I dont think the fact he 
had a number of loans would mean that Barclaycard would have reason to believe he 
couldnt afford the credit increases it offered.
Mr O has said that as the loans were with Barclays, then Barclaycard should have known he 
had taken out a large amount of credit at the same time as they are part of the same 
company. However Barclaycard has explained that its systems dont link up that way. And 
lending with Barclaycard isnt registered on the same systems as Barclays. So I think its 
reasonable that it wouldnt have been aware of the loans taken out at the same time. 
I have also considered Mr Os credit card activity immediately following the limit increases. I 
can see that on both he maintained the accounts well for the years that followed. He didnt 
miss payments and sometimes paid above the required minimum. It wasnt until 2016 that he 
started to have problems meeting these payments  six years after the credit increases. So I 
think this indicates that Mr O was able to afford the additional credit increases as he could 
keep up with payments for a number of years after the increases were in place.
Mr O has said that as he often paid the minimum and only made payments at the end of 
each month, this should have indicated that he was in financial difficulty. Ive considered this 
and I dont agree this would be enough for Barclaycard to be aware of the issues he faced. It 
isnt unusual for customers to make minimum payments towards credit accounts. And as 
long as those payments are met monthly, that alone isnt enough to show that a customer is 
struggling financially. When Mr O started missing payments, Barclaycard wrote to him asking 
him to contact it. This was in order to find out more about his situation and offer support. But 
before this point Barclaycard didnt have reason to know he was in financial difficulty.  
For these reasons I dont think Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by offering credit increases 
on Mr Os credit cards.
Mr O has also said that he received a large refund for PPI payments on other credit 
accounts with Barclaycard, following a complaint. And this should have been used to offset 
the debt owed. Although it does state in the credit agreements: If you have other accounts 
with Barclays, we may use money in those accounts to pay us. This is only discretionary 
and not a requirement. So I dont think Barclaycard were unreasonable by not using this 
money to pay towards Mr Os debt.
I also note that Mr O has said that he shouldnt have been charged interest and fees after 
Barclaycard identified he was in financial difficulty, but before the credit accounts defaulted. 
Barclaycard has shown that it wrote to Mr O a number of times during this period about the 
amount outstanding. And asked him to contact it to discuss his situation. But it had no 
response from Mr O. So I am satisfied that Barclaycard attempted to speak to Mr O about his financial difficulties to try and offer further support. However it continued to warn him in 
these letters about interest and fees that were accumulating. So I dont think it could have 
reasonably done more. And I think it was fair to charge the interest and fees during this time, 
as per Mr Os credit agreement. 
For these reasons I dont think Barclaycard has acted unreasonably and I wont ask it to do 
anything differently or in addition.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman