DRN-4281631
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement with Hyundai Capital UK Ltd, trading as Kia Finance.  
What happened
In August 2022 Mr O signed a conditional sale agreement with Kia Finance for a new car. He 
says he sourced the car through a dealer based over 200 miles away because the dealers in 
his area had long waiting lists for new stock.
The cash price of the car and road tax came to £33,245. The agreement terms required an 
advance payment of £13,245. Mr O says this comprised a payment of £12,745 from him and 
a £500 contribution from Kia Finance. He was then required to pay 36 monthly instalments of 
£183.09, followed by a final payment of around £16,000.
Mr O says that, within the first month, he noticed a problem with the car failing to change into 
sixth gear. He says he contacted the manufacturers UK customer service team, and that 
they advised him to ask one of their garages to assist him. 
Mr O says he took the car to a manufacturers garage based in his area on 18 October 2022. 
Hes told us that they were unable to replicate the fault, but they advised him to book in 
again so they could carry out recalls and updates recommended by the manufacturer. 
Mr O took the car back to the manufacturers garage the following month. He says he told 
them he was having the same problem with the gears - and that hed read a newspaper 
article suggesting this was a wider problem with this model. Again, the manufacturers 
garage found no fault. 
Mr O says the problems with the car not correctly changing through the gears got worse, and 
that he saw a noticeable drop in fuel economy. In December 2022 he complained to Kia 
Finance, saying he wanted to reject the car. 
Kia Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer on 11 January 
2023. The engineers report concluded:
 we were able to identify a defect with the vehicle at the time of our inspection with 
regards to the vehicles transmission as this is holding onto fifth gear and not retaining 
sixth gear. This will clearly have a detrimental effect upon the miles per gallon which the 
vehicle could possibly attain.
 it does appear that the vehicles fault would have been present or in development at 
the point of sale and is the selling agents responsibility
Kia Finance issued their final response to Mr O, saying they hadnt upheld his complaint 
because hed had unauthorised repairs carried out at a third party garage. They said this 
meant they were unable to determine the origin or liability of the faults noted, so they 
couldnt hold the supplying dealer liable under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr O brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said she was satisfied the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr O  and that no repairs had been carried out. Moving on to how things should 
be put right, the investigator initially said she thought Kia Finance should either arrange for 
the car to be returned to the supplying dealer, or for repairs to be completed at a garage 
local to Mr O. 
Mr O was unhappy with this suggestion. He stressed hed taken the car to a manufacturers 
garage in his local area because thats what the manufacturer had advised him to do. He 
said hed specifically asked the manufacturers garage to investigate and rectify the fault on 
two occasions, but theyd been unable to do so. He expressed concern that the 
manufacturer hasnt yet found a solution to this problem - and that this could mean a repair 
might drag on for many months. 
The investigator reviewed the evidence again and revised her proposals for how the 
complaint should be resolved. She said that, as Mr O had already taken the car to a 
manufacturers garage on more than one occasion to find and repair the fault, she thought 
he should now be able to reject it. 
The investigator thought Kia Finance should refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr O 
made from October 2022 to reflect the fact that the car wasnt performing as it should. And 
she thought he should receive a full refund of payments hed made since 15 January 2023, 
when hed stopped using the car altogether. 
The investigator said Kia Finance should return the advance payment Mr O had made at the 
beginning of the agreement. And she thought they should pay him £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. 
Kia Finance didnt accept the investigators revised view. Ill summarise their main points:
The CRA relates to the business that sold the vehicle. Kia Finance say theyre a finance 
provider, and that theyre not the dealer who sold the car. They feel they simply provided 
the loan that enabled Mr O to purchase the vehicle from the supplying dealer. 
Mr O shouldve given the supplying dealer the opportunity to repair the car. Instead, he 
took it to a manufacturers garage that was local to him. Kia Finance feel he didnt 
comply with the Consumer Rights Act 2015  and that these were unauthorised repairs. 
The manufacturers garage didnt make any attempts at repair because they were 
unable to confirm the fault Mr O had reported. The supplying dealer has agreed to 
investigate the complaint and should be given an opportunity to do so.
Mr Os opinion as to whether the manufacturer currently has a suitable fix is irrelevant 
and shouldnt be considered as part of the assessment of this complaint.
Kia Finance take their responsibility for providing financial products and services 
seriously. They investigate all complaints and enforce the correct outcome, even if the 
supplying dealer doesnt agree with their decision. Kia Finance accepted, and still 
accept, the investigators initial assessment of the case. 
Kia Finance asked for an ombudsman to review the case again, so it was passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
My provisional decision
After reviewing the evidence, I issued a provisional decision saying:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr Os complaint relates to a conditional 
sale agreement with Kia Finance. Entering into consumer credit contracts like this as a 
lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can look into this complaint. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. I dont think theres any dispute that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr O. But for completeness, Ive reviewed the evidence about this. 
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report of the inspection on 11 January 2023, 
at which time the car was recorded to have travelled just 5,548 miles. I find this report to 
support Mr Os complaint that the car wasnt selecting the appropriate gear - and that this 
would have a detrimental effect on its fuel efficiency. 
The engineer thought the fault wouldve been present or developing when the car was 
supplied. Given how soon this problem came to light, I agree. And I dont think a reasonable 
person would consider it satisfactory for a brand new car costing around £33,000 to be 
unable to consistently select the appropriate gear for the driving speed and conditions. So, I 
dont consider this car to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O. 
I think its fair to say the point in dispute is how the problem should be resolved. The CRA 
sets out remedies for consumers whose right to receive goods of satisfactory quality has 
been breached. Kia Finance feel very strongly that Mr O hasnt complied with those 
provisions. Ive considered the points theyve raised.
Kia Finance say theyre a finance company, not a car dealer, and that any complaint about 
the quality of this car should be a matter for the supplying dealer to resolve. But that isnt 
quite right. Ill explain why. 
Under a conditional sale agreement, Kia Finance is the supplier of the car. This is made very 
clear in the agreement Mr O signed on 11 August 2022. It says: We agree to sell and you 
agree to buy the goods shown on the front page of this agreement. It goes on to explain that 
Kia Finance will buy the car from the supplying dealer, so Kia Finance can then sell it to Mr 
O under the terms of the finance agreement. 
For this reason, Kia Finance is responsible for a complaint about the cars quality. 
Mr O says he initially contacted the manufacturer to ask whether they were aware of the 
issue he was experiencing, because he knew some problems with modern cars can be 
software-related. He says the manufacturer advised him to take the car to one of their 
garages in his local area, so thats what he did. I dont think that was unreasonable.
Mr O told us he sent his complaint to Kia Finance on 6 December 2022  and theyve 
confirmed that they raised a complaint two days later. The independent engineers report 
states the fault was present when the car was inspected on 11 January 2023. So, Im 
satisfied that this fault came to light within six months of the car being supplied to Mr O. 
The CRA says Mr O had the right to require the trader to repair the car. But it goes on to 
explain that he cant require the trader to do this if it would be an impossible or 
disproportionate way of resolving the issue. The CRA also makes it clear that, if the 
consumer requires the trader to carry out a repair, this must be done within a reasonable 
time and without significant inconvenience to him.For the reasons Ive already explained, in this conditional sale contract the trader was Kia 
Finance. Mr O says having spoken to the manufacturer and twice taken the car to one of 
their approved garages for the issue to be diagnosed and fixed, he wanted Kia Finance to 
allow him to reject the car instead of requesting another attempt to repair it. 
I appreciate Kia Finance feel Mr O hasnt followed the procedure theyd usually expect here. 
In essence, they think he shouldve allowed them an opportunity to make arrangements for 
the car to be repaired before he could exercise the right to reject it. Ive considered what 
difference that wouldve made in this case.
The CRA doesnt impose any obligations or restrictions as to who Kia Finance should 
appoint to carry out repairs. But Id expect Kia Finance to cover the cost of transporting the 
car their chosen repair centre. And I note that the supplying dealer is based around 260 
miles away from Mr Os home.
I also bear in mind that, if Kia Finance were asked to repair the car, the CRA places an 
obligation on them to do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
Mr O. Theyve shown us a copy of their internal email correspondence about the possibility 
of returning the car for repair by the supplying dealer. This confirms that, although the 
supplying dealer is happy to look at the car, they cant say whether theyd be able to mend it 
until theyve seen it. 
Kia Finance have shown us copies of the invoices Mr O had sent them. These confirm Mr O 
took the car to one of the manufacturers approved garages on 18 October 2022, 22 
November 2022, and 29 November 2022. And that hed specifically asked them to look into 
the problem with the gears on the first two of these visits. 
The invoices show that although they Reset basic settings on gearbox, Carried out checks 
and test inline with technical and road tested the car twice, they were unable to diagnose or 
fix the fault. I remind myself that these checks and tests were carried out by one of the 
manufacturers networks of approved garages, who had access to technical help from the 
manufacturer. 
Having thought about all of this, Im not persuaded that the supplying dealer is any more 
likely to be able to successfully diagnose and fix the fault. And I think returning the car there 
would incur additional transportation costs for Kia Finance, as well as increasing the length 
of time Mr O has been waiting for this matter to be put right. 
Ive considered whether theres any other reason why it would be unfair for me to direct Kia 
Finance to allow Mr O to now reject the car, following the failed attempts to diagnose and 
repair the fault at the manufacturers garage in his area. 
In their final response to Mr Os complaint, Kia Finance said they were unable to determine 
the origin or liability of the faults due to unauthorised repairs completed by a third party 
garage. Im not persuaded of this. Ive seen no evidence to suggest the manufacturers 
garage did anything to the car that might make it more difficult for Kia Finance to find out 
what was causing the issue with the gears, or whod be liable to put it right. 
For these reasons, I think the best way to resolve this complaint would be to allow Mr O to 
reject the car. This means Kia Finance should arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr O 
and return the advance payment he made. To be clear, this should be the advance payment 
amount shown on the agreement, less any contribution made by the supplying dealer or 
finance company. Based on what Mr O has told us, I think the car performed as he expected for a little while. 
The first invoice from the manufacturers garage confirms he was experiencing a problem 
with gear selection by 18 October 2022. Im satisfied this wouldve meant it was using more 
fuel than Mr O expected. So, I think its fair that he should receive a 10% refund of the 
monthly payments he made from 18 October 2022 onwards.
Mr O has provided a recent photo of the dashboard display, showing the car has only 
covered 5,744 miles in total. Hes told us he stopped using it altogether on 15 January 2023. 
He says he felt he had no choice after the independent engineer confirmed there was a fault 
with the gearbox. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the independent engineer gave any advice to Mr O about 
whether he should stop driving the car. But, on balance, I dont think that was an 
unreasonable decision. So, I think it would be fair for Mr O to receive a full refund of the 
payments hes made for the period after 15 January 2023. 
Mr O says he wanted a reliable vehicle due to his age and the very rural area he lives in. 
Hes told us he had to buy a much older car after he stopped using this one. He says the 
issue with this very expensive car - and the difficulty hes had trying to get it put right - has 
caused him a great deal of worry and distress. He feels our investigators suggested award 
of £150 doesnt adequately cover this. 
Mr O has recently shared some personal information with us about the very severe impact 
this ongoing situation has had on him. Im very sorry to hear hes been having such a tough 
time. Ive thought very carefully about what hes told us. 
I do understand his reasons for taking the car to a manufacturers garage in his area, instead 
of asking the supplying dealer or Kia Finance to arrange for it to be repaired. But I think that 
meant Kia Finance had relatively little information about the problems with the car. I think 
they may reasonably have believed it simply wasnt performing as well as expected. I dont 
think they couldve foreseen or known the full impact this issue was in fact having on Mr O.
For that reason, I think it would be fair for Kia Finance to pay Mr O £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Kia Finance to:
Collect the car and end the agreement, at no further cost to Mr O. 
Refund the advance payment Mr O made. This should be the amount shown on the 
agreement, less any contribution made by the supplying dealer or finance company.
Refund 10% of the payments Mr O made for the period since 18 October 2022.
Refund 100% of the payments Mr O made for the period since 15 January 2023.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded amounts, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Os credit file about this 
agreement. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. Mr O said he accepted my provisional decision and had no further points to raise. 
Kia Finance didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I received no additional information or comments in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change my mind. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Hyundai Capital UK Ltd to:
Collect the car and end the agreement, at no further cost to Mr O. 
Refund the advance payment Mr O made. This should be the amount shown on the 
agreement, less any contribution made by the supplying dealer or finance company.
Refund 10% of the payments Mr O made for the period since 18 October 2022.
Refund 100% of the payments Mr O made for the period since 15 January 2023.
Add interest to each of the refunded amounts, calculated from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Os credit file about this 
agreement. 
If Kia Finance consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr O how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if hes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman