DRN-1975881
 
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was never told that the rewards for buying certain investments 
from Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited expired after a year. She only discovered 
that after the rewards she had expired.
What happened
Miss M had a number of Scottish Friendly policies. In 2018 she bought some policies with 
certain incentives attached  and Scottish Friendly issued two reward cards for the value of 
£130 and £50. These incentives needed to be redeemed within a 12 month period from 
when they were issued  that is by May and July 2019. 
Miss M said she was never told this was the case when she received the rewards and so 
didnt redeem them in time. She complained to Scottish Friendly and asked it to reinstate the 
rewards. Scottish Friendly looked into her complaint but didnt consider it had done anything 
wrong. In short, it said that the expiry date of the reward cards was featured on the back of 
the cards alongside the reward code. So it didnt agree that it should reinstate the reward 
cards, or honour them after their expiry. 
Miss M didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint, but didnt consider it should be upheld. In short, he said that the 
terms and conditions were clear that the reward code would be valid for 12 months from the 
date of issue. This, combined with the fact that the expiry date was printed on the back of 
the card next to the code, meant that Scottish Friendly had done enough to alert Miss M to 
the expiry date of these rewards. As a result, the investigator didnt think it would be fair to 
ask Scottish Friendly to honour these rewards or pay any compensation. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said that from a customer service perspective Scottish Friendly 
ought to honour the expired reward cards because it didnt make a difference to it whether 
they were reinstated or not. She gave an example of a different company who agreed to 
reissue a gift card when it had expired. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im afraid I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. I understand 
why Miss M considers Scottish Friendly ought to simply reinstate these reward cards  after 
all, she qualified for them initially, so this was money which Scottish Friendly was always 
willing to gift her. 
But whilst I understand what Miss M is saying, my role is to decide whether Scottish Friendly 
has acted fairly and reasonably  and only if it hasnt, to direct it to pay compensation. 
In this case, Im not persuaded Scottish Friendly has done anything wrong. Like the 
investigator, Im satisfied that it was Miss Ms responsibility to be aware of the terms and 
conditions of the incentives Scottish Friendly was offering and which she wanted to benefit 
from. And it was for her to satisfy herself that she understood the key terms and any 
timescales she needed to comply with. 
In that regard, having looked at the terms, I agree with the investigator these are clear. In the 
section your reward code, the terms specifically say that it is valid for 12 months from the 
date of issue. So Miss M ought to have known that this was the timeframe she had to 
redeem any rewards. I think this was made even clearer by the fact that the cards 
themselves had the expiry date printed on them. 
Given all of the above, I dont consider it would be fair to ask Scottish Friendly to honour 
these rewards or reinstate them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman