DRN-3446060
The complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt treat her fairly when defaulting her loan 
account and is unhappy with how it handled her request for help with her accounts. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs H contacted HSBC to say that she was concerned that her current 
account had begun to incur overdraft interest. This was because she was no longer an 
employee of the bank and so the staff marker on her account  which gave her preferential 
terms for her overdraft  had been removed. From her initial conversation with HSBC Mrs H 
understood that she had agreed to a repayment plan for her overdraft whereby she would 
pay £10 per month to her overdraft and interest and charges would be paused on all three of 
her accounts  her current account, her credit card, and her loan  in order to help her.
When HSBC wrote to Mrs H to confirm what had been agreed she was concerned to see 
that it appeared a payment plan had been put in place for her loan account and credit card 
as well as for the overdraft. It also appeared that her credit card had been suspended and 
her most recent payment to her loan had been returned even though funds were available to 
pay it. This wasnt what Mrs H was expecting so she got back in touch with HSBC.
During Mrs Hs conversations with this second staff member HSBC again discussed details 
of her income and expenditure and determined that she had no current affordability to pay 
her overdraft, loan or credit card. As a result, HSBC said it would only be able to offer a plan 
whereby Mrs H wasnt required to make payments to any of these accounts for six months, 
but that this would mean interest and charges could be suspended on all three accounts. 
HSBC did though explain that this would affect Mrs Hs credit file and could impact her ability 
to get credit in future. Ultimately, in this conversation with HSBC, Mrs H confirmed that she 
was happy to agree to this new plan as it would give her some breathing space. During this 
conversation HSBC also offered Mrs H £50 to recognise that the service she received when 
she had first called could have been better.
HSBC then wrote to Mrs H to confirm the plans that had been agreed, a separate letter was 
sent for each account. These letters confirmed that although HSBC would not be expecting 
payment from Mrs H to her accounts, its collections process would continue as normal and 
this would include accounts defaulting if an account went too far into arrears.
On 29 May 2020 HSBC issued a default notice to Mrs H regarding her loan account, this 
notice said that unless the arrears were cleared by 19 June 2020 then it would send a formal 
demand stating that the account would be closed and a default recorded with the credit 
reference agencies if the full balance of the loan was not repaid.
At this point, Mrs H contacted HSBC to complain, she said she had not been told that the 
plan shed agreed to could lead to a default. HSBC responded to say that it was satisfied the 
default notice had been correctly issued.
On 29 June 2020 HSBC issued the formal demand and, as the outstanding balance of the 
loan wasnt repaid, in July 2020 Mrs Hs loan account was closed, transferred to HSBCs 
recoveries department, and a default was recorded with the credit reference agencies.
Mrs H remained unhappy that her account had been defaulted and referred her complaint to 
us. Mrs H wants the default removed from her credit file.
Since then Mrs H has repaid her credit card and loan, in June and July 2021 respectively. 
No interest or charges were applied to these accounts from March 2020 until they were 
closed. Mrs Hs current account remains open with an overdraft facility which Mrs H uses 
regularly, it appears that no overdraft interest or charges have been applied to this account 
since March 2020.
HSBC has also since made an offer to pay Mrs H an additional £150 compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns, she felt that HSBC hadnt acted 
unfairly in how it defaulted Mrs Hs account. Mrs H disagreed, she maintains that HSBC 
didnt clearly explain to her that she was at risk of a default if she agreed to the repayment 
plan. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that HSBC has acted unfairly here. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
Mrs H feels HSBC didnt clearly explain to her that the plan she had agreed for her accounts 
could lead to a default being recorded on her credit file, but with all that Ive seen Im 
satisfied that ultimately it was made clear to her what the implications of the plan were. I 
agree that her initial conversation with HSBC was unclear, and also think that the potential 
for a default could have been more clearly explained on the second occasion that she 
contacted HSBC. 
But even so, the letters that were then sent to Mrs H to confirm the plan she had agreed to 
made it very clear that there was the potential for a default to be recorded about any of her 
accounts if the arrears reached a certain level. Mrs H has suggested that she never needed 
a repayment plan for the loan and was pushed into this by HSBC, but even with the nil-
payment plan she was on she could have continued to make payments to her loan if she 
could afford to. It appears though that Mrs H didnt make any payments to her loan, even 
after receiving the default notice which made it clear what would happen if the arrears 
werent repaid. I also must bear in mind that the information HSBC had been given about 
Mrs Hs circumstances indicated that she wasnt able to afford to maintain payments to any 
of her accounts, and that the loan wasnt repaid until a year after the default notice was 
issued. 
All this suggests to me that Mrs H could not afford to maintain her loan, or her other 
accounts, and so the default would appear to be an accurate record of Mrs Hs financial 
position at that time. If she could have afforded to meet the loan payments then its not clear 
why she didnt when the repayment plan letter had made it clear that arrears could lead to a 
default.With all this in mind, I think HSBC has acted fairly here in defaulting Mrs Hs loan account 
how and when it did. So I wont be asking it to remove the default from Mrs Hs credit file.
I also think that HSBC has treated Mrs H fairly overall in how it has responded to her 
financial difficulties. When told about her circumstances HSBC refunded some charges and 
interest, took steps to stop charges and interest on all of her accounts  I note that she still 
has an interest free overdraft facility now  and made sure it had details of her income and 
expenditure so that any repayment plans agreed were affordable. I appreciate that Mrs H 
thinks a different type of plan should have been offered to her, but in all the circumstances I 
think that what HSBC suggested in March 2020 was reasonable in light of the information it 
had at that time.
As Ive said, I do think some of the information she was given on the phone could have been 
clearer, but HSBC has already paid Mrs H £50 to recognise that, and along with the 
additional £150 HSBC has offered since the complaint was referred to us, I think that is a fair 
way to settle this complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs H, but this means I wont be asking 
HSBC to do anything more as Im satisfied that what HSBC has already offered to do is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint as I am satisfied that what 
HSBC has offered to do to put things right is fair. HSBC UK Bank Plc should now pay Mrs H 
the £150 it has offered to her if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman