DRN-3284706
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) didn't fairly deal with a claim 
he made under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Cct 1974 (the "CCA") in relation to 
a purchase.
What happened
In 2019 Mr A bought a new phone from a retailer, R, using his NatWest credit card. The 
phone, including charger, cost £913. After 13 months Mr A said the phone started to 
overheat, with the back cover bowing and separating from the main body of the phone. The 
phone would frequently not respond. Mr A contacted R who provided him with a refurbished 
replacement phone. 10 months later, Mr A reported the same issue again with the 
refurbished phone, so he made the decision to reject it. He asked for a full refund of £913.
R offered to pay Mr A a partial refund of £570.63 in accordance with the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015. The retailer is permitted to take price reduction for use of the product after the first 
six months of ownership. R calculated its offer based on a six-year lifespan of the phone. Mr 
A declined this offer. He said that figure only represented 62.5% of the price he paid, which 
he was not willing to accept for a product that had a widely reported manufacturing fault with 
a safety hazard at the time of the purchase.
Mr A contacted NatWest to make a claim under S75. He asked for a full refund as well as 
£90 for consequential losses he had incurred. NatWest determined that the amount of refund 
due was £517.37. It said the upper estimate for the lifespan of a mobile phone is around 2.5 
years and Mr A had had use of the handset before it developed a fault for approximately 13 
months. NatWest included its calculation in the final response letter. It went on to say, as the 
offer made by R exceeded what the bank deemed to be fair, it did not feel Mr A had 
sufficiently proven his claim as per the requirements of S75.
Mr A disagreed with the basis of NatWest's calculation. He said he has an independent 
report which says the correct lifespan of a phone should be 4.7 years, and the 2.5 years is 
rather an elective choice when consumers may want the latest phone as opposed to any 
fault with the phone. He said the amount offered was inadequate under the circumstances. 
He brought his complaint to this service. He said he disputed the metric NatWest used to 
calculate what is fair and reasonable for the 13 months use he had from his phone. He said 
NatWest had used service life of a smart phone as the metric not technical life.  Service 
life being the products total life from the point of sale to the point of elective discard by its 
user. Mr A said this was different to the technical life which is the maximum period during 
which it can still physically function. 
Our investigator concluded that there was a valid claim for breach of contract and that the 
offer from R suggested there was no dispute that the phone was faulty. He said the dispute 
was about what a fair deduction for usage should be. Having considered both NatWests and 
Rs calculation and taking account of the research material Mr A provided the investigator 
considered a five-year life span was a more realistic figure on which to base the usage 
calculation. Estimating that Mr A had use of the phone for a total of 23 months, 10 months 
more than NatWest, he calculated the refund to be £562.94. As R had the most generous 
offer out of the three he didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in the way it handled 
Mr As claim. 
Mr A didnt agree that using 5 years as a baseline for the calculation was fair, given R had 
used 6 years. He said he found no rational explanation to set aside the key metric of a 6-
year span which R has used and considered the conclusion to be an act of discrimination. 
The investigator confirmed that our service is an independent third party that mediates 
disputes and that we dont take sides. He said Mr A had successfully been able to 
demonstrate with his research that the phone lifespan is around five years which is the 
measure the investigator used. He said R had based its calculation on the time limit for Mr A 
to claim for breach of contract under the Consumer Rights Act not the lifespan of the 
product. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr A but having done so I find that I agree with 
the investigator and Ive outlined my reasons below.
I trust Mr A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
the right outcome.
Mr A paid S using his NatWest credit card and because of this he might have the 
protection provided by S75. Before I go any further, I think its important to set out my 
role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not 
determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under S75. Rather, in 
deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr As complaint, I must take relevant law into 
account. S75 is relevant law. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A pursued a claim in court. Our 
service is an alternative to the courts.
The general effect of S75 is that if Mr A has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against R, he can also bring that claim against NatWest provided certain 
conditions are met.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory.
Its not disputed by any party that there is a fault with Mr As phone, both the original 
handset and the refurbished replacement. And it appears all parties acknowledge 
that Mr A had exercised his right to repair and replacement and was now entitled to 
exercise his right to reject the phone. Ive looked at the photo evidence of the phone 
and the comments provided by both R and NatWest and Im satisfied this is the case. Section 20 of the CRA, the Right to Reject says that the trader has a duty to give the 
consumer a refund. Section 24 of the CRA determines that any refund to the 
consumer may be reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the 
consumer has had of the goods in the period since they were delivered. Section 24 
(10) says no deduction can be made if the consumer exercises the right to reject in 
the first six months. Mr A used the phone for 13 months, seven months past the first 
six months, before reporting it faulty. So, Im satisfied a reduction can be made for 
fair use.
Mr A said after he discovered the heating issue with the phone which made it 
vulnerable to water ingress and, in his opinion, the phone was unsafe, he was 
reluctant to use it at all. NatWest has said Mr A had use of the phone for 13 months. I 
tend to disagree. I can understand Mr As hesitation, but he still had use of the phone 
even if he didnt or was reluctant to use it after it had been in for repairs. So, Im 
satisfied Mr A had the use of the phone (and replacement phone) for a total of 23 
months; 13 months to April 2020 and 10 months from 13 August, after it had been in 
for repairs, to June 2021.  
NatWest, R, and our investigator all made a calculation for fair usage reduction 
based on an estimation of the lifespan for the phone.
oRs offer was £570.63. It used six years. It said this price is calculated from 
the original purchase price which is then divided by the number of months in 
the six years Mr A was covered under the act, and then multiplied by the 
number of remaining months from the point Mr A first made the claim. 
oNatWests offer was £517.37 and based on the upper estimate for the 
lifespan of a mobile phone, of around 2.5 years. And it concluded Mr A had 
use of the handset prior to developing a fault for 13 months. 
oOur investigator based his calculation on five years. Mr A had provided 
several academic research reports and between them reported that the 
estimated lifespan of a phone was around five years. The calculation was 
£913  60 months = £15.22, 23 months of fair use = £350. This would lead to 
a refund of £562.94. 
Mr A has argued that six years should be the estimated life span and was 
disappointed that the investigator had departed from Rs figure. But in his comments 
to us Mr A has said the reports indicate the lifespan to be between 4.5 to 5.2 years. 
Ive examined these reports and I agree that lifespan is more likely within this range. I 
also note that Rs estimate of six years isnt based on the lifespan of the phone. 
NatWest used 2.5 years as its lifespan benchmark. Its not clear to me why 2.5 years 
is used but it could be related to phone turnover when renegotiating network 
contracts. But I consider it underestimated how much usage Mr A had in theory even 
if he was reluctant to use the phone. But NatWests final offer wasnt too dissimilar to 
Rs or the calculation made by the investigator. So, Im satisfied it acted reasonably 
with how it dealt with Mr As claim and with its offer. 
Section 20 (19) of the CRA says It may be open to a consumer to claim damages 
where there is no entitlement to receive a refund, or because of the limits of the 
entitlement, or instead of a refund. So, I am unable to award Mr A the £90 he has 
requested as consequential damages. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with my conclusions. If he doesnt accept them, which is his right, nothing in this decision prevents him from pursuing the complaint through the 
courts. Although of course this would come with other costs and risks. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman