DRN-1892272
The complaint
Mrs H complains a payment she made to a retailer from her Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) current account wasnt taken in time which meant she went into an unauthorised 
overdraft.
What happened
On 3 March 2020 Mrs H made a purchase on her Halifax debit card. The following day she 
withdrew cash from the same account. Because the retailer hadnt yet processed her 
payment, Halifax allowed the cash withdrawal to be made. The retailer requested the funds 
from Halifax soon after which took Mrs H into an unarranged overdraft. 
Mrs H complained about this. She said it was Halifax fault for not processing the payment 
sooner and it shouldnt have allowed her to go into an unauthorised overdraft. Halifax didnt 
agree it had done anything wrong, but it did offer to refund the transaction to the retailer and 
pay £30 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs H didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us. 
She also complained that she was unhappy with the way in which some Halifax staff had 
spoken with her when she made her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into things. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs H didnt agree so the complaint has come to be for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and 
for the same reasons.
Halifax cant control when a retailer requests money following a customer making a 
payment. At the time Mrs H withdrew cash the payment hadnt been requested so there was 
no reason for Halifax to not allow Mrs H to make the withdrawal. Furthermore, Mrs H was 
aware that shed made this transaction and couldve checked her balanced to ensure she 
had enough funds as she knew that payment was due to be made and shouldve been 
aware of her balance. I dont think she should simply rely upon Halifax managing her 
account to let her know whether she has enough money or not in it. So I dont think Halifax 
has done anything wrong here.
Ive listened to the call I understand Mrs H is unhappy about. Whilst the discussion does get 
quite animated at times from both sides, I dont think this was poor customer service from 
Halifax. Its member of staff was trying to explain what had occurred and at times felt they 
needed to interrupt Mrs H to get their point across. Though I can understand why Mrs H isnt 
happy about this.
Halifax has refunded the transaction Mrs H complained about and paid her £30. This is more 
than I wouldve recommended in this situation. So Im not going to ask it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman