DRN-2010707
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) settled his 
complaint concerning the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  RBS off-
set the amount it offered Mr S against the outstanding arrears it said he had on the overdraft 
account to which the mis-sold PPI policy was attached.
Mr S says he doesnt think he still had an outstanding balance on this overdraft account and 
so RBSs offer should have been paid directly to him.
What happened
In 2019, Mr S complained to RBS about a PPI policy it had sold him attached to an overdraft 
account. 
RBS responded to Mr Ss complaint in a letter dated 29th October 2019, accepting that the 
policy had been mis-sold and offering him £293.77 (net of tax) in compensation for this. In 
that letter RBS said that: 
To accept our offer you will need to sign and return the declaration at the end of this letter. 
On receipt we will arrange for payment to be made, subject to clearance of any arrears you 
may have with The Royal Bank of Scotland. 
On 1st November 2019, Mr Ss signed the declaration form to accept the settlement offer. 
This form included the following wording:
I/we understand the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my/our account. The
remaining balance, if any, will then be credited to my/our current account held with you or by
cheque. I am/we are aware that it is possible for the account to remain in arrears if the offer 
is not sufficient to clear the full amount owing on my/our account.
Following Mr S giving his acceptance of the offer, RBSs Debt Management Operations 
(DMO) confirmed that there was an outstanding arrears owed by Mr S to the bank on the 
overdraft account of £746.10. So, having updated the compensation offer to include the 
additional statutory interest which had accrued since its original offer was made, the revised 
offer figure of £294.51 was off-set against that outstanding balance.
But Mr S wasnt happy with the fact that RBS had used all the compensation hed been 
offered in this way and complained to RBS about this. He said he didnt think there were any 
outstanding arrears on the overdraft account and so the compensation offer should have 
been paid directly to him. RBS responded to Mr S confirming that there was an outstanding 
debt of £746.10 and that it had used the banks right of set-off to reduce this outstanding 
amount by the offer settlement. 
Mr S still thought that RBS should have paid the full amount of its PPI offer to him directly. 
So he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator was satisfied that there were outstanding arrears on Mr Ss overdraft 
account of £746.10 and he didnt think that RBS had done anything wrong in using its PPI 
compensation offer to reduce the arrears on this account. So he didnt think Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld. But he told Mr S that RBS had offered £25 for the distress and 
inconvenience it may have caused him by the way it had handled his complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators view. He said he didnt think that RBS had provided 
sufficient evidence to this service to show there remained £746.10 arrears on his overdraft 
account prior to set-off. As Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has accepted it mis-sold the PPI policy to Mr S and agreed to compensate him for this. 
So, in this decision, I shall not be addressing the issue of how the PPI policy came to be sold 
to Mr S. It also doesnt appear as if Mr S is complaining about how the total compensation 
figure (net of tax) was calculated by RBS. So I havent looked at these calculations in detail 
either. In this decision I will only be considering whether RBS should have paid the 
compensation it offered Mr S to settle his complaint directly to him.
In this case, I consider the most relevant law to take account of is the equitable right to set 
off. This allows, in certain circumstances, an individual (or organisation) to set-off closely 
connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe another 
person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them.
 
For this right of set-off to apply in this case, I must be satisfied that there is a close 
connection between the PPI compensation and any outstanding debt. I must also consider 
whether it would be unjust not to allow RBS to set-off in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that RBS has an equitable right to set-off some of the PPI 
compensation offered to Mr S against the outstanding debt RBS says he had on his 
overdraft account.
RBS has provided a screenshot from its computer systems that shows a debit balance of 
£746.10 on Mr Ss overdraft account as at 27th May 2008. This balance can also be seen to 
have been written off on that date. And although Mr S has questioned the reliability of this 
screenshot, Im satisfied that it does provide sufficient evidence to show that, at the time 
RBS made its compensation offer, there was an outstanding balance on Mr Ss overdraft 
account which had never been repaid. And the fact that RBS may not now be able to pursue 
Mr S for repayment of this outstanding amount doesnt mean that it doesnt exist.
Im also satisfied from what Ive seen that the PPI policy which is the subject of this 
complaint was directly connected to Mr Ss overdraft account. So, in considering the right of 
set-off I have outlined above, I have concluded that the PPI compensation and the overdraft 
debt are closely connected. They are both for the same account of Mr S with RBS.
Having decided there is a close connection, I need to think about whether it would be unjust 
not to allow RBS to set off in this way. And, as I have already identified, the offer acceptance 
form which Mr S signed stated that the offer might be used to off-set outstanding arrears. So 
I think RBS made it clear to Mr S that, if he still had arrears on his overdraft account which 
hed never paid back to it, this would be taken into account in determining the amount of 
compensation, if any, paid directly to him for the PPI mis-sale. Im aware that Mr S isnt 
happy with the way that he was treated by RBS in the past. But I dont think this is a matter that I can consider further in this decision. Mr S will need to make a separate complaint if he 
still thinks hes been treated unfairly by the bank in relation to his overdraft account or any 
other matters which are not directly related to this complaint, which only concerns the way in 
which RBS has settled the mis-sale to him of a PPI policy.
So, in summary and from the information and evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable 
for RBS to apply set off. The PPI policy and the overdraft debt were closely associated and I 
consider that it would be unjust not to allow RBS to set-off in this way. Mr S owed money to 
RBS on his overdraft account that hed never repaid including, no doubt, some of the PPI 
which he was charged for. In these circumstances, it would seem evidently unfair if RBS 
were required to refund all the money he was charged for PPI, some of which was never 
actually paid to RBS in the first place.
Ive also thought about the way RBS has handled Mr Ss complaint. And I think that RBS 
could have handled it better than it did. RBS has already offered Mr S £25 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience which he may have been caused as a result of this and I 
understand that this offer remains open to Mr S to accept. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances, I dont think RBS needs to offer Mr S any more. 
So I dont think RBS has done anything wrong in the way it has settled Mr Ss mis-sale 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman