DRN-4197332
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. A representative (the CMC) was assisting Mr V 
with his complaint but he is now dealing with his own complaint. 
What happened
Mr V bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2017. The purchase was 
funded with a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations made by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr V 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr V into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Vs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as there wasnt sufficient evidence to satisfy him that the system was 
sold on the basis that it would be self- funding. 
Mr V didnt agree but made no additional comments. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
by our adjudicator, I was asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr V paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr V could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr V and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that neither Ikano nor Mr V have been able to provide much 
paperwork from the time of sale. Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a 
decision based on the available evidence  that includes Mr Vs testimony and any other 
documentation either party have been able to submit as well as the wider circumstances. 
Mr V said, in his letter of claim, that he was led to believe that the system would pay for itself 
via the financial benefits received from the system (which was a combination of the income 
from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) scheme and savings made on energy bills).  
Subsequently, Mr V provided additional testimony that he was led to believe that hed 
receive around £80 a month in payments from the FIT scheme and his electricity would be 
free. Mr Vs monthly loan payment is around £80. Mr V added the supplier refused to provide 
him with a quote or any further breakdowns in writing because it said it was unable to give 
exact figures of how much sun he would get from day to day. 
So according to Mr V, this supplier sold the system on the basis that it was self-funding but 
also at the same time explicitly told Mr V that it couldnt give him exact figures of what he 
would get. If the supplier couldnt ascertain what benefits he would receive because it didnt 
know how much sun Mr V would get, I have to question how the supplier could have told him 
with any credibility that Mr V would, in any event, have receive enough benefit to cover the 
cost. 
Neither Ikano nor Mr V have provided the usual documentation we see from this supplier like 
the estimated returns document. But Ikano says, that it has seen a number of documents 
from the time of sale in other cases and this supplier usually made the estimated returns and 
the costs clear during the sale. 
This service has also seen a number of cases from this supplier from around the time of 
sale, and it does give us an indication as to the suppliers usual sales practices and it does 
look like, generally it did make the cost and benefit clear. 
Ive then gone on to think about the wider circumstances of this case. Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr V raised any concerns about not receiving sufficient benefit to cover the costs with 
either the supplier or Ikano until 2021. I think if Mr V was genuinely disappointed with the 
benefits he was receiving and expected the benefits to cover the cost of the system, when 
this didnt materialise, I would have expected him to have raised this and Ive seen no 
evidence that he did. 
I also have to bear in mind that, outside of Mr Vs testimony, there is no other evidence from 
the time of sale that the supplier was promoting the systems as being self-funding when 
Mr V bought his system. This is against the fact that in many other cases, sales documents 
were actually provided and generally showed it made the estimated returns and costs clear. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Vs testimony, bearing in mind this is the main evidence 
Mr V has submitted. But having done so, Im not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence 
here that the system was mis-represented to Mr V on the basis it would be self-funding or 
that Mr V relied on a statement like this, and this was the main reason he purchased the 
system. Each case is decided on the individual merits of that case, and on balance, I think 
the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me 
to uphold this complaint.
Mr Vs former representative also indicated that Ikano may not have carried out sufficient 
credit checks and didnt leave any documents for Mr V to look through in his own time. But 
Mr V appears to have signed the credit agreement fully aware of costs and doesnt appear to 
have raised any concerns either at the time or for many years after the sale. He also had a 
cooling off period which I would have expected him to utilise if he had any concerns. I 
havent seen any evidence the loan was unaffordable. So, these points dont change my 
view of the complaint. Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr V 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Ikanos decision to not accept the claim was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman