DRN-4220101
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial Services
(VWFS).
What happened
In January 2018 Mr E acquired a new car funded in part with a hire purchase agreement with
VWFS. The car cost £168,232 and Mr E paid a deposit of £57,008.57. Mr E was due to
make 47 monthly repayments of £1,521.78, followed by a final balloon payment of
£58,163.75 if he wanted to keep the car.
Mr E says shortly after acquiring the car he noticed issues with it making noises. These have
been described somewhat differently at times, but Mr E has said the car was making creaks,
squeaking and rattling sounds. These have been described as coming from the interior of
the car, the sunroof and the rear.
Mr E says he reported these issues to the dealer and the car was seen at various times for
various repairs. I believe more than one dealer is involved here, but for ease Ill refer to all
dealers as D. Mr E says the noises always came back following attempted repairs and
these were never put right.
Unfortunately, around September 2019 the car was involved in a collision where it was hit
from the rear. An initial repair was carried out on the car to rectify the accident damage. But
Mr E said the noises continued past this point. He says the car continued to be returned to D
for repairs and these continued to be unsuccessful.
Around October 2021 the car was looked at again by D. At this point it removed the rear
bumper and advised the accident damage had not been fully repaired. D said the best
course of action would be to fully repair this damage before continuing to listen for the noises
Mr E complained about. Mr E acquired a quote for the additional work that needed to be
done as a result of the collision.
Around February 2022 Mr E complained to VWFS as the agreement was coming to an end.
He said the car had been making noises since he acquired it and that the issue had never
been put right.
At the end of March 2022 VWFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, that D had
looked at the car on two occasions and were happy to investigate the issues once the car
had been fully repaired. It didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Shortly after this it appears the remaining repairs from the collision were carried out. Mr E
told D this didnt resolve the noise issues.
Mr E then referred the complaint to our service. In summary, he said the car had been
making noises since he acquired it that had never been put right. And he said it had been
seen by D far more times than the two instances VWFS mentioned in its response to his
complaint. He provided our service with numerous evidence of contact between himself and
D, job sheets from when D saw the car and an extensive history of what happened. He also
provided videos which he said showed the noises.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she didnt think the complaint should be
upheld. She said, in summary, that she hadnt seen enough evidence to persuade her there
was a fault with the car. And she said any noises following the accident couldve been
caused by the collision.
Mr E disagreed. He said, in summary, that the repairs carried out wouldnt have affected the
noises from the car. And he said he was going to get an independent inspection carried out.
We then received a copy of an independent inspection from December 2022. This identified
a knocking noise and a resonating noise when the car was test driven. Our service sent
VWFS this report for its comments.
VWFS responded and said the report didnt change its view on the case. It said the report
didnt identify the source of the noises and it didnt say they were present at the point the car
was supplied to Mr E.
Our investigator then explained to Mr E that the report didnt change her opinion, as it didnt
identify the source of the noises and it wasnt possible to say whether they were present or
developing at the point Mr E got the car.
I sent Mr E and VWFS a provisional decision on 15 June 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr E complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into
regulated consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mr Es complaint against VWFS.
I should begin by explaining to both parties that I might not comment on all of the evidence
and points raised in this case. Ill instead focus on what I think are the key facts and the crux
of Mr Es complaint. I want to reassure VWFS, and Mr E, that where I havent commented on
or addressed something, both here and in the summary of what happened above, this
doesnt mean that I consider it unimportant. Ive reviewed all of the information and
evidence, even when it isnt mentioned in my decision. My approach here reflects the
informal nature of our service.
I should also explain to Mr E from the beginning that I cant consider several of the issues
hes raised. Hes raised various concerns about customer service, communication and the
work done to the car by D. And its clear hes unhappy with the investigation and initial repair
following the collision, and the length of time it took to identify the continuing issues. But,
VWFS arent responsible for this. Hes also raised concerns about a subject access request
and how D responded to this. But, again, VWFS arent responsible here. These issues will
need to be raised directly with D or the relevant party.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  VWFS here  has a responsibility
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price,
mileage and description. So, Ill consider here that the car Mr E acquired was a high endmodel from a premium manufacturer, that cost over £168,000. So, I think a reasonable
person would have extremely high standards for its quality, would expect it to be in mint
condition when it was acquired and to have trouble free motoring for a significant period.
As VWFS were responsible for supplying Mr E with a car that was of satisfactory quality, Ill
consider if this was the case or not.
I should start here by saying Im satisfied VWFS have given an incomplete account of the
history of what happened with the car in relation to the issues Mr E complained about. In its
final response, it said D had seen Mr Es car on two occasions. And in response to seeing
the independent inspection, it said the first time D saw the car about a rattle was in October
2018. It then explained it thought D had then seen the car in June 2019, July 2019, January
2020 and November 2021.
But, from the communication between Mr E and D, Im satisfied he raised the issue of the
noises much earlier than this, and I think its likely D investigated and attempted repairs
more frequently than VWFS believe. Ill explain why.
After Mr E entered into the finance agreement, Ive seen an email from D to Mr E that
confirmed the car was ready to collect on 7 February 2018. After collection, D emailed Mr E
to check how he was getting on with the car. Mr E replied on 22 February 2018 saying:
Ive got a couple of rattles at the moment which have been there from the start
So, Im satisfied Mr E raised that the car was making abnormal noises around two weeks
after he acquired it.
In March 2018 Mr E emailed D and said:
the car is great apart from the squeaks have returned
D replied and said:
As this is reoccurring, I have forwarded this to the service department for them to contact
you to have it booked in (emphasis added by myself).
So, D knew about the noises the car was making and knew this was a recurring issue
shortly after Mr E acquired it.
VWFS said in October 2018 some rear boot trim was rattling and the issue was rectified. But
it appears more substantial work was carried out than this at this point. Looking at the job
sheets, these mention Mr E reported a squeaking from the sunroof. Work was completed to
both the front and rear suspension in relation to a scrubbing noise and the job sheets
noted:
attended to interior rattles from rear, removed interior trims and reworked rear lateral trim
panels, tested all ok
I appreciate this job sheet notes the issue was rectified. But Mr E has shown he contacted D
less than two months later and explained there was still a rattling noise, a noise from the
sunroof, the car made noise when going over bumps and a noise was coming from the rear
of the car when driven.
The car was then again seen by D in February 2019. The job sheets from this time dont
explain work was done in relation to noise, but emails from D explained it was investigatingthe noises Mr E complained about.
The car was again seen by D in March 2019, where the job sheets noted:
refitted passenger side trim  tested all ok Cleared sun roof seals and geased (sic) tested
all ok
attended to rattle from rear side trims, find lateral trim on left side rattling, removed trim and
reworked/touch up contact points, tested, all ok
The day after this, Mr E emailed D and explained there was no difference in the noise from
the panels. He asked if this was normal and explained, if so, he couldnt bear to be in the
car.
Mr E again complained about the noises to D in May 2019. And in June 2019 D again had
the car and confirmed Mr E had noted rattling issues from the passenger side trim, rattling
from outside of the car and squeaking from the sunroof. Later in June 2019, after D had the
car, Mr E confirmed to it the noises hadnt been resolved.
In July 2019 D saw the car again, where work was completed on the exhaust and a coolant
pipe. D also noted Mr E complained about a rattle from the passenger side.
Following the collision in September 2019, which Ill comment on further below, Mr E
continued to complain about the noises in December 2019 and January 2020.
In February 2020, a rear speaker was replaced due to Mr E again complaining about rattling.
The day after this, Mr E got in touch with D and explained the issues were still there, saying:
it is at the side and in the ceiling and sounds b****y dreadful
Mr E also said around this time:
Im not travelling to (country) and back with it making that noise  I really dont have that
sort of tolerance
Around this time Mr E also reported that D saw the car again and tried to fix the issue by
applying Velcro to the trim. I havent seen job sheets for this, but an email does seem to
verify D did see the car at this point.
In June 2020 Mr E complained again about the noise to D. And in September 2020 he said
hed been busy with work and so hadnt been in touch, but the rattles were still present and
had been occurring since he got the car.
In December 2020 D saw the car again and explained to Mr E:
It has proved to be a little challenging in finding the noise. We are currently looking at the
NS rear suspension set up
It appears Mr E got the car back in January 2021. And in March 2021 he complained again
to D saying the rattles had returned. Mr E said they were coming from the rear and:
It has been constant throughout the whole time that Ive had this car
Mr D again complained to D in September 2021 saying the rattles were still present. D saw
the car in October 2021 and said it:can confirm it is a metallic noise from the exhaust area
In response, Mr E said he believed the exhaust system was rattling as well as the car
making noises from the interior. Later in October 2021 D said:
(Name) our technician whom went with you to listen to the noises felt the ones heard were
obvious rear external noises and would be easy to find Hence the removal of the rear
bumper cover (PU) to discover the extent of the damaged area. (D) will be committed to
listen to the rear Interior noises but feel the best cause of action is to do this once the rear
external components have been replaced / repaired back to a pre impact position
Mr E continued to explain to D that he believed the car had a rattle inside it. He also
explained to his insurance company, when discussing the further work required for the
collision damage, that the car had ongoing issues with a rattle that were present since
purchase.
It appears the further work to the car was completed around the time VWFS issued its final
response in March 2022. In April 2022, Mr E again contacted D and explained the issues
with squeaking and rattling were still present.
I appreciate Ive gone into quite some detail about the history here. But I think its worth
doing so in order to point out how consistently Mr E has complained to D about noises
coming from the car. This consistency also continues to what he told VWFS, his insurance
company, and our service.
So, Mr E consistently complained to D about noises from the car over a period of around
four years. D saw the car on multiple occasions over this period and either investigated or
attempted repairs to fix the apparent issue. At numerous stages it appears D has
acknowledged the car was making noises.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied on balance that the car was making the noises Mr E
reports. And Im satisfied these noises began occurring when, or very shortly after, he got
the car.
I accept that the evidence from D is mostly silent on the severity of the noise. But, Mr E has
gone into some detail about this  some of which is set out above. He also explained during
a longer trip that he had to try to mask the noises by using bedding and other items to
deaden the sound. Thinking about this, Im persuaded by what Mr E says here and I think its
likely these noises were abnormal, and at least reasonably loud.
Ive also thought about the independent report from December 2022. This explains:
we can confirm an intermittent light knocking noise was audible from the rear of the vehicle
We also noted a resonating noise emanating from the dashboard at the nearside
Thinking about these comments, it would appear this suggests that following the second
repair to the collision damage that the noises were still present.
Ive carefully thought about the collision damage. I accept it could be possible, or maybe
even likely, that the collision caused some ongoing noise from the car. I say this because, as
above, D seemed to believe noise was coming from the exhaust system which was later
repaired. But, Im also satisfied that abnormal noise was present both before, and because
of what the independent report said, after the damage was fully repaired. Ive alsoconsidered that around this time Mr E reported both a noise from the exhaust and the interior
of the car. So Im satisfied, if the collision did cause a noise from the exhaust, this was likely
a separate issue to the other noises Mr E was complaining about.
In summary, Im satisfied Mr Es car was making abnormal noises from around the time he
acquired it. Im satisfied these were severe enough to be, at best, irritating while driving the
car. Im satisfied the multiple investigations and repair attempts by D didnt resolve the
issues. Im satisfied that, while I accept the collision may have resulted in additional noise
from the car, this was a separate issue to the other noises. And Im satisfied that the noises
complained about continued to be an issue following the collision damage being fully
repaired.
Its worth commenting briefly here on the videos Mr E supplied. Im in agreement with Mr E
that you can hear some creaking, knocking and cracking noises at times. But, its very
difficult, given the nature of the noises and the driving environment, to be able to separate
what is normal, potentially abnormal, or external. So, I havent put much weight on these.
But, ultimately, this doesnt change my opinion on the case.
It follows all of this that, thinking about the car Mr E acquired and the fact it cost over
£168,000, that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, I now need to think
about what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
My starting point here are the remedies available to Mr E under the CRA. I dont think its
appropriate to instruct a further repair. I say this as, given the amount of attempts so far, I
have no confidence that this would be successful. I also need to consider that the term of
Mr Es finance agreement was nearly ended when he complained. I also dont think, given
this, it would be appropriate to consider a price reduction or replacement.
This means the other available option is to allow Mr E to reject the car. I appreciate VWFS
said the finance agreement had ended, but this wasnt the case when Mr E complained, and
I believe he still hasnt made the balloon payment. So, Im satisfied Mr E still has this right.
Ive also considered Mr Es use of the car. While as set out above, the car has had an
ongoing issue, I need to consider that Mr E has had use of it throughout the term of the
agreement. But, I also think its fair to say that due to the issues Mr E has experienced, the
car wasnt performing as it should and so this usage was impaired. Im satisfied VWFS can
retain the majority of Mr Es monthly repayments, but I think it should give a proportion of
these back to reflect this impaired usage. Thinking about whats fair and reasonable here, I
think an amount of 15% should be reimbursed.
Ive also considered that Mr E has retained the car beyond the original term of the finance
agreement. From what I understand, I believe he hasnt paid the balloon payment, and I
believe he has not been making the monthly repayments that were previously due under the
agreement either.
Here, I would generally say that its reasonable for Mr E to pay for the use of the car that
hes had following the end of the original term of the finance agreement. And a starting point
would be to consider the monthly repayments that were due under the agreement in place.
But, I do need to consider the use of the car Mr E has had during this specific period. While it
hasnt been sat completely unused, its fair to say his use of the car has very significantly
dropped since the end of the agreement. Roughly speaking, during the original term of the
finance agreement Mr E covered around 7,500 miles a year.
Looking at the independent report from December 2022 and a photo from March 2023 Mr Eprovided, which are the last two confirmations of the mileage I have, Mr E has covered the
equivalent of around 720 miles a year, or less than 10% of his previous use.
Thinking about the above, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable, under the very
specific circumstances of this case, to charge Mr E the amounts previously due as Im
satisfied Mr E paying around £24,000 for what is very minimal usage of the car is not fair and
reasonable.
When thinking about this, Ive also had in mind that Mr E has suffered a significant amount of
distress and inconvenience because of whats happened here. Hes had to spend a large
amount of time and effort taking the car to D to be repaired or looked at. While it appears at
times hes had a courtesy car, I dont believe this was every time his car was seen by D, and
I havent seen that he was given a comparable car to drive. I also need to consider that this
issue, and the stress this caused, continued over a period of several years.
Thinking about whats reasonable here, I think the fairest thing to do is not to make Mr E any
separate award for the significant distress and inconvenience caused and instead not charge
him for the usage of the car post the original term of the agreement ending.
I gave both parties two weeks to respond with any further information or evidence.
VWFS responded and said, in summary, that Mr E wasnt entitled to keep the car after the 
term of the agreement ended and he didnt pay the balloon payment. It said Mr Es actions 
by keeping the car contradicted the fact he said it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
VWFS said Mr E wasnt entitled to get the deposit back as he had the benefit of this by using 
the car throughout the agreement. It said by not complaining to VWFS and asking to reject 
the car sooner, he had accepted the repairs carried out by D. And it said it was 
unreasonable for Mr E to keep the car following the end of the term of the agreement without 
penalty.
Mr E got in touch and said he mostly agreed with the decision, but he thought the 
percentage of payments due back should be higher. He also explained some details about a 
personal situation that he said had been caused due to the stress of the situation with the 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything VWFS said in response to my provisional decision. 
Ive thought about what VWFS said about the deposit. I explained in my provisional decision 
why I still think Mr E has a right to reject the car and I wont repeat myself here, other than to 
say Ive reconsidered this and Im satisfied this is still the case. I say this as when Mr E 
complained, and had a right to reject, the finance agreement was still in its original term, and 
as he didnt pay the balloon payment the agreement wasnt paid off.
I understand VWFSs frustration that Mr E raised the complaint with it late in the agreements 
term. But I need to consider that, as above, hed been complaining to D about the situation 
consistently for years. I also understand that the deposit involved here is larger than 
average, due to the cost of the car and the figures involved. But, the CRA is quite clear about Mr Es rights here. Given Im satisfied Mr E has a right to 
reject the car, the CRA explains when exercising the right to reject:
To the extent that the consumer paid money under the contract, the consumer is entitled to 
receive back the same amount of money
If the contract is a hire-purchase agreement or a conditional sales contract and the contract 
is treated as at an end before the whole of the price has been paid, the entitlement to a 
refund extends only to the part of the price paid
To summarise, Mr E is entitled to a refund to the part of the price paid  or in other words, 
the deposit he paid and the monthly payments.
However the CRA also explains:
If the consumer exercises the final right to reject, any refund to the consumer may be 
reduced by a deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer has had of the 
goods in the period since they were delivered
This is why I think its reasonable that, in line with what I recommended in my provisional 
decision, VWFS are retaining 85% of the monthly payments Mr E made towards the 
agreement. And Ive also considered, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable, that 
VWFS are getting back what is still likely a valuable asset.
Ive also thought about what VWFS said about Mr E accepting the repairs that D had carried 
out. But, I think from the communication with D that this clearly wasnt the case.
I also take on board VWFSs comments that Mr E wasnt entitled to keep the car after the 
end of the term. And I appreciate this may be the case  but Im also satisfied, as above, that 
his usage of the car dropped significantly at this point. And, if VWFS had allowed him to 
reject it at the time he complained, this wouldnt have been an issue. Id also point out to 
VWFS that if he didnt keep the car, I wouldve awarded Mr E a payment for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Given the issues went on for years, this wouldve been significant. But I still think its fair 
VWFS dont make an award here given Mr Es use of the car following the end of the term. 
Although in terms of the overall redress this is relatively minor, and I appreciate I didnt 
mention this in my provisional decision, thinking about things in the round I also dont think 
VWFS need to reimburse Mr E the cost of the independent report for the same reason under 
the very specific circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered what Mr E said in response to my provisional decision. 
I was very sorry to hear about the personal situation Mr E told us about. I have very limited 
information here about what, I assume, are quite complex circumstances. But I think, based 
on the little detail I have, that it is unlikely VWFS are directly responsible here.
Ive also thought about what Mr E said about a higher percentage of payments being due 
back. But, having reconsidered everything, I still think what I recommended in my provisional 
decision is fair and reasonable.
Ive also reconsidered Mr Es use of the car. It appears this has gone up recently. But, Mr E 
has explained this is due to having to use the car due to the personal situation he told us 
about. Thinking about things in the round here, I still think what I said in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. But, I would politely ask Mr E to avoid using the car if at all 
possible until it is now collected.
I want to reassure VWFS and Mr E that Ive carefully considered everything else they said in 
response to my provisional decision. And Ive thought about all of the other information on 
the case again. Having done so, I still think the complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay*
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Mr E, at no cost
Reimburse Mr E the deposit paid of £57,008.57 **
Reimburse Mr E 15% of all repayments made towards the agreement **
Remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file in relation to the agreement
*To be clear, Mr E should not be responsible for any arrears since the original term of the 
agreement ended, nor the balloon payment
** These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If VWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman