DRN-2952217
The complaint
Mr H complains about the customer service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited in 
relation to a query he raised in relation to his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr H called Aviva to ask it about the unoccupancy clause in his home 
insurance policy. Specifically Mr H wanted to know what the minimum number of days his 
home needed to be occupied for in between three periods of unoccupancy in order for his 
insurance to be valid. When matters became confusing Aviva said it might be more helpful if 
Mr H put his request in writing. Mr H emailed Aviva, saying he was planning to spend up to 
90 days overseas, followed by 1-2 weeks at home, followed by a week overseas and then 
another trip of between 1-2 weeks. 
On receipt of the email, Aviva invited Mr H to discuss the matter on the telephone as it 
thought it would be easier. Mr H declined; he said he wanted Avivas answer in writing so he 
could rely on it. Aviva replied to say that its underwriters had said that if he was only home 
for a couple of days between two trips that totalled longer than 90 days it would consider the 
property unoccupied. But it also said that if Mr H intended to go away as hed set out in his 
email  with a gap of a couple of between 1-2 weeks between trips  then the 90-day 
unoccupancy clock would reset.
Mr H emailed Aviva again and again to ask if the 90-day period reset after one- or two-
weeks reoccupation. Aviva replied asking him to call; Mr H replied to say he wanted Avivas 
answer in writing because he wouldnt have a written record of what was discussed if he 
called. Mr H said he understood 2 days was insufficient but 2 weeks was acceptable; he said 
he wanted to know specifically if 1 week between trips was enough to reset the clock.
Aviva said it understood Mr H felt his query was straightforward but it still needed to have a 
conversation with him before confirming anything in writing. It said all its calls were recorded 
so there would be a record of what was said. Aviva said that until Mr H called it, it would no 
longer discuss the matter in email.
Mr H complained to Aviva. He said his enquiry had been dealt with in an unhelpful, 
inappropriate and provocative manner. Aviva looked into Mr Hs complaint issued its final 
response on 9 December 2020. It said that his branded policy had a telephone-based 
customer service centre which was why itd invited him to call it to discuss his query. Aviva 
also said itd now spoken to its underwriters who wouldnt confirm a specific minimum 
number of days in writing as there was no defined minimum occupancy period in the policy 
booklet. Aviva said this information superseded any information Mr H had previously 
received about the issue. 
Mr H replied to say that Aviva had corresponded with him by email  not just by phone  so 
its assertion that its customer service was telephone based was clearly not correct. And he 
said that, as a result of Avivas letter, he now had two more complaints. Firstly that Aviva 
was withdrawing its previous advice about what constituted minimum occupancy between 
trips. Mr H said hed relied on what he had been told so to say the advice was now 
superseded was improper. Secondly, that Aviva continued to refuse to answer his query 
about whether 1 week between trips was enough to reset the clock. 
Aviva said that when a customer has a specific enquiry it was always willing to follow up a 
conversation with written confirmation of what was agreed. And it said that it was the 
underwriters that had asked the customer service team to speak to Mr H to get more 
information about his trips. Aviva apologised if it hadnt made this clear and for any 
inconvenience caused. And it said its senior underwriter had now said, in response to Mr Hs 
complaint, that a specific number of days wouldnt be provided in writing. Aviva said there 
was nothing more it was able to add. 
Mr H said he remained unhappy with Avivas response. Aviva issued another letter on 17 
December 2020 to clarify its final response. It referred to the initial telephone call Mr H had 
made in November 2020 and said that its agent hadnt logged the contents of the call on its 
system notes so that when Mr Hs query and complaint were subsequently being reviewed, 
the fact it had provided him with an email address had been overlooked. Aviva apologised 
for any inconvenience caused. It said itd asked its underwriter again about the minimum 
occupancy question but itd been confirmed that any previous assurances Mr H had been 
given by its customer service team were withdrawn.
Mr H thanked Aviva for its apology but said his complaint remained unresolved. He also said 
that it was inappropriate that the Aviva employee about whom hed made the complaint had 
been allowed to subsequently deal with the complaint itself. Aviva replied on 30 December to 
say his complaint had been escalated to another handler at the earliest opportunity and that 
it was satisfied a detailed investigation into his complaint had been conducted. It said it still 
wouldnt provide a minimum occupancy period in writing because no such defined period 
appeared in the policy terms. Aviva said it was happy to discuss the matter with Mr H to 
establish his precise plans for unoccupancy after which it may have been in a position to 
address his request in writing. Mr H said he still considered his complaint unresolved. Aviva 
said that it was unable to continue corresponding about the Mr Hs complaint indefinitely. 
Mr H complained to this service. He said he wanted Avivas complaints addressed, 
transcripts of Avivas calls with its underwriter, an apology, the information hed asked for 
provided and financial compensation. Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt 
recommend that it was upheld. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs contract with Aviva are set out in the policy booklet, the 
statement of fact, policy schedule and at renewal under Important information.  I can see 
that the policy booklet states that Aviva needs to know if the property its insuring will be 
unoccupied for a continuous period exceeding the number of days shown on the schedule. 
On Mr Hs schedule of insurance it states that the number of days is 90. So Mr H has 
contracted with Aviva that he will let it know immediately if his property is going to be 
unoccupied for more than 90 continuous days. 
I can appreciate, given the travel plans he was trying to make, why Mr H wanted to know if 
he was going to breach that period if he came home and went away again quite soon after 
(and his aggregate time away was going to be in excess of 90 days). Unfortunately for him, 
Aviva has offered, and he has accepted, the terms of his contract as set out in the documents Ive cited above. And there is no defined minimum occupancy period within the 
policy terms, nor is Aviva obliged to vary the terms of the contract to provide one. Aviva is 
under no contractual obligation to qualify or explain how long is needed between trips to 
reset the clock. I think the terms of the contract make it clear what information Aviva wants 
to know. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Aviva tried to help establish Mr Hs requirements by inviting 
him to discuss the matter on the phone and, on occasion, as a courtesy, answering by 
emails. Whilst Mr H wanted to receive a definitive answer in writing about whether one week 
alone was sufficient to reset the clock, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong by saying it 
wanted to discuss the matter over the phone. As it has said, its calls are recorded. Audio 
copies of calls are easily provided and would act as a record of what was discussed and 
agreed. How Aviva arranges its customer service is a matter for it alone and isnt something 
this service would interfere with. We arent here to punish a business but to resolve disputes 
in a fair and reasonable way having taken the evidence into account. 
And, Aviva has explained that it reviews unoccupancy notifications on a case by case basis. 
Its said its underwriters will base their decisions on the case specific circumstances (how 
long a trip is, frequency of unoccupancy etc.) and that this is why it wanted to talk directly to 
Mr H; to ascertain his precise travel dates and, if the content of the conversation permitted, 
follow up what was discussed, and agreed, in writing. I can see that Aviva asked Mr H to 
confirm his precise plans so underwriters could make a decision based on his individual 
case. It has said it was more than happy to do this. I cant see that Mr H ever provided that 
information to Aviva. I can see he wanted a yes/no answer to whether one week was enough 
but Aviva couldnt (because the terms of the contract didnt contain a minimum occupancy 
period), nor was it obliged to, provide the answer Mr H sought. 
Ive seen no evidence that Aviva has been unreasonably obstructive in its dealings with 
Mr H. I appreciate that the withdrawal of the assurance it initially gave him, in an attempt to 
address his enquiry, about 2 days being insufficient but 2 weeks being enough (to reset the 
clock), was disappointing given underwriters actual stated position (namely that there was 
no contractual minimum occupancy clause). I cant agree with Mr H that Aviva hasnt 
withdrawn its earlier statement about 2 days/2weeks  it has made it clear that it was 
superseded by the underwriters position as set out in the final response letter and 
subsequent correspondence. 
I know that Mr H sent Aviva many emails in his attempt to clarify the policy requirements 
around un-occupancy and that he received the wrong information initially but Aviva 
subsequently corrected its errors and clarified the true position. But Aviva has provided more 
than one apology for its poor service along with any confusion and inconvenience caused. I 
know that Mr H is of the view that Avivas errors warrant some form of financial 
compensation but Im unable to agree. In reaching this decision Ive had regard to this 
services approach to compensation awards and I think that, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Avivas apologies are sufficient and that I cant reasonably require it to pay 
compensation to Mr H. Whilst I appreciate that Mr H is unlikely to agree with me, Im not 
going to ask Aviva to do anything more. 
Mr H has also complained about the way his complaint was handled by Aviva; that the 
employee he was complaining about was (initially at least) handling his complaint. We dont 
have a free hand to consider every complaint we receive. Our rules (known as the DISP 
Rules) and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) set out what complaints we 
can consider. Unfortunately, complaints about how a financial business has handled a 
complaint arent within this services remit as complaints handling isnt a regulated activity. 
So Im unable to look at this aspect of Mr Hs complaint any further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman