DRN-1162931
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank PLC have refused to write the balance of his credit card 
off. He also complains that he was given conflicting information by its advisors. 
What happened
Mr J holds a credit card with Barclays. In 2017, he asked the bank to write off the balance, 
due to getting in financial difficulties. He says another bank had written off money he owed, 
so Barclays should do the same. Mr J has also complained that Barclays had agreed to write 
the balance off - but  later changed its mind. Lastly, Mr J also complains that he was told his 
debt wouldn't be sold on to a third party.
Barclays looked into the complaint but it wasn't upheld. It said it's not its policy to write 
balances off - but it has agreed to not ask Mr J for any of the money he owes. It also says, 
that at the present time, it has no intention to sell the debt on to a third party. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. She found that Mr J had been treated 
fairly when Barclays agreed not to chase the debt. 
As Mr J didn't agree, the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority says that a business must treat 
customers in default or in arrear difficulties with forbearance and due consideration - in other 
words, fairly. And I find this is what Barclays have done here. I'll explain why.
On the call Mr J had with the Barclays advisor at the beginning of May 2019, the advisor 
explained that its not its usual policy to write debt off - although some third party 
organisations advise that they do. The advisor goes on to say she will raise Mr J's request 
for the money to be written off with a separate department - but she can't guarantee what the 
outcome will be. 
On the call Mr J had later in May, Mr J was again told it's not Barclays policy to write money 
off, but it will stop asking for future payments, as Mr J couldn't afford to pay towards the 
debt. He was also told that the accounts hadn't been sold on and will stay with a specialist 
team within Barclays. The advisor lastly advised Mr J that as a default had been recorded 
previously, no further information would be recorded with the credit reference agencies. I'm 
satisfied that Barclays have treated Mr J fairly by taking this action. It's also important to note, that I can't consider a complaint about something that's not 
happened yet. I can understand why Mr J would be worried his account may be sold to a 
third party in the future, but for now Barclays have reassured him that this won't happen.  
Barclays have also provided comprehensive notes from each time Mr J spoke to one of its 
advisors and there is no record of any discussion regarding writing the debt off. I can see 
that he was told on one call he had with an advisor that it can't guarantee the debt won't be 
sold on in the future, but this has now been clarified. 
Based on the information I've seen from both parties, I'm satisfied Barclays have been fair in 
the handling of Mr J's credit card account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman