DRN-2864778
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited switched her investment bond 
holding into a cash fund instead of holding it in cash as she requested. And when she 
surrendered the bond several days later the value had fallen.
What happened
Mrs L called Aviva on 12 March 2020 and requested the funds in her bond be switched into 
a cash. Mrs L confirmed shed received advice in this regard and that she was moving the 
funds because she didnt like the current market. Aviva confirmed the fund value was 
£76,006 and confirmed the switch would be made into the cash fund.
On 16 March, Mrs L called Aviva as shed not received confirmation the fund was in cash. 
Aviva told Mrs L the fund was being switched into the cash fund that day and confirmed the 
amount being switched as £72,714. Mrs L was unhappy that the fund wasnt switched to 
cash and surrendered the bond. She received £72,714 from Aviva.
Mrs L complained to Aviva that she wasnt told the funds were to be switched to a cash fund 
and not disinvested into cash. And that this led to a financial loss when she surrendered the 
bond several days later. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint as they said Mrs L requested the 
funds be transferred into the cash fund and that Mrs L had received advice from a financial 
adviser in respect of the changes.
Mrs L brought her complaint to our service and one of our Investigators looked into things. 
The Investigator thought that if Aviva had explained the switch was to a cash fund rather 
than cash, it was likely Mrs L wouldve surrendered the bond on 12 March. And thought 
Aviva should calculate the amount Mrs L wouldve received had she surrendered her bond 
on 12 March 2020 and, if theres a difference between this and the amount she actually 
received on surrender, the difference should be paid to her.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator and have asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Aviva will be disappointed, but for very similar reasons to the Investigator 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I will now explain why.
In the telephone call on 12 March, Mrs L initially asked Aviva to transfer the fund to cash. 
And the case handler responded to confirm so you just want to switch it into cash, yes?. 
There was then a lengthy break in the call while the call handler reviewed the current status 
of the investment.
When the call handler returned he confirmed to Mrs L that the funds would be switched into 
the cash fund, and confirmed Mrs L had sought advice in this regard. Mrs L also explained 
the reason she wanted to do this was because she was unhappy with the market at this 
time. Mrs L explained she still wanted to receive her regular monthly income. The call 
handler said the switch would be submitted that day.
Ive considered Avivas comment that the call handler confirmed the switch was into the cash 
fund. However, the call handler acknowledged Mrs L had called to switch the fund into cash. 
I understand that Aviva cant give advice on which funds Mrs L could switch into, but I would 
have expected Aviva to clarify at this stage of the call that switching to cash wasnt an option 
within the bond. Instead, after a lengthy break, the call handler asked Mrs L to confirm she 
wanted to switch into the cash fund. And Im satisfied that she confirmed this was the case. 
But, this wasnt the instruction she initially gave.
There is clearly a misunderstanding here. And Im persuaded that Aviva didnt do enough to 
clarify the instruction Mrs L had given earlier in the call. The call handler didnt explain funds 
in the bond couldnt be switched into cash, but instead switched the holdings into the cash 
fund, which is not the same. I dont consider such an explanation could reasonably be 
considered as giving financial advice about the switch. Its simply making it clear to Mrs L 
that Aviva couldnt carry out the initial instruction shed given them. And, without any 
explanation at all, I consider it was reasonable for Mrs L to conclude the funds would be held 
in cash. 
I consider that if Aviva had told Mrs L this wasnt the case its likely she would have made a 
different decision. It seems more likely to me that Mrs Ls intention was to protect her 
investments against market movements. She didnt ask for a less risky fund, she asked for 
the funds to be switched to cash. 
Aviva says Mrs L confirmed shed sought advice in this matter, but the crux here is what 
happened in the telephone call I refer to above. Aviva have relied on the fact that Mrs L 
received advice and that the onus was on Mrs L to make it clear what she was requesting. 
But, having listened to the call I consider her initial instruction was clear. Therefore, Ive 
decided Aviva didnt do enough to explain to Mrs L why they were switching to the cash fund 
instead of cash. 
Aviva have told me Mrs L would only be able to take her regular income if the funds 
remained invested in the bond. I understand this, but I didnt hear Aviva explain this to Mrs L 
at the time either. I consider Aviva missed an opportunity to explain the difference between 
cash and the cash fund at this point. And, because this particular issue wasnt explained, I 
consider it was reasonable for Mrs L to form a view that she could hold cash and receive her 
income.
So, taking everything into account, Im persuaded Aviva should have done more to explain 
why they couldnt hold the funds in cash, and that the alternative was to either surrender the 
bond or switch to the cash funds. I consider that if Aviva had done so, Mrs L would more 
likely have surrendered the bond on the initial telephone call. This is given more weight 
because when it became clear Aviva didnt transfer the funds to cash, and the cash fund was 
explained to her on 16 March, Mrs L immediately surrendered the bond.
I considered that Mrs L had not had the use of any difference in the surrender values, if there 
is any, and that Aviva should pay interest to reflect this. The Investigator hadnt considered 
this, so I asked both parties for any further comments, but neither Mrs L nor Aviva 
responded.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should 
calculate the surrender value of the bond on 12 March 2020, and if theres a difference 
between this and the amount she actually received on surrender, they should pay the 
difference to Mrs L. Additionally, they should pay 8% simple interest* on any difference from 
12 March 2020 until the settlement date.
*If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman