DRN-2932590
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mr H was given 4 loans by ELL. The details of these are as follows:
Number Date taken Amount Term Repayment Repaid
1 May 2015 £1500 24 months £158.24 February 2016
2 February 2016 £3200 36 months £256.32 February 2017
3 February 2017 £5000 36 months £414.42 February 2018
4 February 2018 £10,000 42 months £462.23 outstanding
When Mr H took out loan 2, he used part of the capital amount to repay his existing loan. He 
did this when he took out loans 3 and 4 also. 
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought ELL didnt 
make fair lending decisions when it agreed to loan 1 and loan 2. He then went on to 
conclude that loans 3-4 were not affordable either and that Mr H had become reliant on the 
credit ELL was providing. He upheld Mr Hs complaint about all 4 loans.
ELL disagreed with the investigator and said it had carried out proportionate checks when it 
agreed to lend to Mr H loans 1 and 2. It said from its calculations, Mr H had enough 
disposable income to afford these 2 loans. It agreed with the investigators findings for loans 
3 and 4. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. As ELL agrees with our investigator that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt 
have been given to Mr H, I will not look into these. I will though, say how ELL can put things 
right here. I will look into what happened with loans 1 and 2 and whether these were fairly 
given to Mr H or not.
This is the last stage of our process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both 
parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Hs complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When ELL agreed to the loans the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
ELL was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Hs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
ELL had to consider both the risk to it that Mr H wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr H of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, ELL had to consider Mr Hs ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 4 loans in a sustainable 
way? If it did, did ELL then make fair lending decisions?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Was there a point at which the pattern or history of lending itself showed further 
borrowing would be unsustainable for Mr H?
Loan 1
ELL gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed to loan 1 in May 2015. It asked 
him for details of his income and his expenditure. It verified Mr Hs income by checking bank 
statements. It then looked through Mr Hs credit file to determine how much he was paying to 
other lenders. And it went through the bank statements it gathered.
Mr H was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He was agreeing to
make monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that ELL wanted to
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Hs financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim.
I think its checks for loan 1 were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
ELL gathered from Mr H to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be giventhis loan.
ELL noted down Mr Hs income as around £2319 and it says it verified this by checking on 
the bank statements that he provided. It also recorded down Mr Hs credit commitments and 
worked out his living expenses. It then calculated Mr H had enough disposable income to 
afford the loan repayments. But I agree with the investigator, the amount of disposable 
income Mr H wouldve had left after all of ELLs calculations, was small and when I consider 
that it wouldve seen within the bank statements that it had gathered, that Mr H had very little 
money left each month, I dont think it could have concluded that the loan repayments would 
also be met, in a sustainable way over the lifetime of the loan. I think with the information it 
had in front of it, it ought to have become apparent to ELL that the loan was not affordable 
for Mr H. 
Loan 2
Mr H looked to refinance loan 1 around 8 months later in February 2016, when he applied for 
loan 2. He would use part of the loan to repay loan 1 and then receive the rest. ELL again 
says it conducted the same checks for both of these loans. It recorded down his income, 
checked Mr Hs credit commitments and says it looked through his bank statements.  
Again, Mr H was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. Mr H was refinancing and 
was asking for more than he had asked for previously. I would have expected ELL to 
conduct a complete review of Mr Hs finances to ascertain whether he would be able to 
sustainably make the repayments. So, I think, as well as verifying his income, ELL should 
have also looked to verify Mr Hs expenditure within the bank statements that it had gathered 
rather than using an estimated figure for his living expenses on each occasion. This is so it 
could assure itself of Mr Hs true financial position and that he could make the repayments in 
a sustainable way.
But I dont need to make any further conclusions about the checks ELL made as I dont think 
it made a fair lending decision with the information it did gather. It would have seen on the 
credit search it had in front of it, that Mr H had 3 defaults recorded against his name and 
these had all occurred in between him taking loan 1 and asking for loan 2. I think this would 
have been a clear indication that Mr H was having problems managing his finances. Two of 
his accounts defaulted 4 months before he applied for this loan and the third occurred 3 
months before he approached ELL again. 
In conclusion, I think on balance ELL did not make fair lending decisions when it agreed to 
loans 1 and 2. ELL has agreed that it shouldnt have agreed to give Mr H loans 3 and 4. So 
it now needs to put things right for all 4 loans.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
loans 1-4, because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has been indebted with 
interest and charges on these loans, that shouldnt have been provided to him.
ELL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-4 and treat all the payments Mr H 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.Remove any negative information relating to loans 1-2 on Mr Hs credit report. 
Remove all entries on Mr Hs credit report relating to loans 3-4. Any information 
about loans 3-4 were likely to be adverse for Mr H.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr 
H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman