DRN-2494220
The complaint
Mrs J says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial Building Society) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business as 
Santander in this decision to keep things simple.
What happened
Mrs J took out a mortgage with Santander in 1993. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy to protect her monthly mortgage payments if she couldnt work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mrs J paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs J disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs J says she cant remember any mention of PPI when she applied for the mortgage. 
Santander no longer has copies of the paperwork that Mrs J signed when she took out 
the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given the time 
thats passed. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconsistent, I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely, based on the information I have.
Santander has provided samples of the documents it was using around the time that 
Mrs J took out the mortgage and PPI. The mortgage application form includes a section 
about PPI. There are boxes to tick if the applicant wished to take PPI, with a choice of 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, or for accident and sickness only. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that it would have been clear to 
Mrs J that the PPI was optional. And I think its most likely that she decided to take it, 
knowing that she had a choice  but I can understand how she may no longer remember 
this, so long after the event.
Mrs Js told us she cant remember where she applied for the mortgage and PPI. And 
Santander hasnt been able to confirm this either. But it says it would have 
recommended the PPI to Mrs J  and for the purposes of this decision, Ive assumed that 
a recommendation was made. This is to Mrs Js advantage when it comes to my 
consideration of the complaint, as it means that Santander had a responsibility to check 
that the PPI was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen of Mrs Js circumstances at the time.
Mrs Js told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. Shes not sure how much 
redundancy pay shed have been entitled to. But the policy would potentially have paid 
out for longer than Mrs J would have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay Mrs J received from 
her employer. So she could have used those to meet other expenses. And she wouldnt 
have had to use her savings to make her monthly mortgage payments. 
I acknowledge that Mrs J says her family would have helped her financially if need be. 
But circumstances can change. And I cant be sure Mrs Js family would have been in a 
position to help if the need had arisen. And although she says she could have sold her 
car and van if necessary, I dont think there could have been any guarantee that she 
could have done this quickly or easily. And having the PPI would have meant that she 
didnt have to do so.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that she chose to 
take out the PPI, even if shes understandably forgotten this so many years later. Based 
on what shes told us about her personal circumstances at the time, its unlikely that 
Mrs J would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for 
example, provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical 
conditions). Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs J couldnt afford the policy. And as she 
was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if 
her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Ive taken account of all Mrs Js comments, including what shes said about her husband 
having been self-employed when she took out the PPI. But Santanders records show that 
both the mortgage and the PPI were in Mrs Js sole name. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman