DRN-1572092
The complaint
Mr C complains that he has been mis-sold four life cover policies by Aviva Life and Pensions 
UK Limited (previously Friends Provident). He says he was told he would get a payout which 
didn't happen, and he wasn't told of the implications of the policies. 
He is being assisted in his complaint by Ms G. 
What happened
Mr C took out four whole of life policies in 1985,1987, 1990 and 1995. He complained to 
Friends Provident about the sale of the policies in 2004 and again in 2005. On both 
occasions he was told the policies had been sold by independent financial advisers. 
He complained again to Aviva in 2019. It isn't clear if it responded. But as Mr C hadn't 
received a response he asked us to look into the matter. When sending its file Aviva 
provided a copy of its records showing all four policies had been sold by independent 
financial advisers. So our investigator concluded Aviva hadn't done anything wrong and    
 Mr C needed to pursue his complaint against the parties responsible.
Ms G asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr C nor Ms G has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider; 
they haven't provide any evidence the information provided by Aviva is wrong, or anything to 
show that Aviva is responsible for these sales. In the circumstances, there is very little I can 
add to the investigator's findings. 
Aviva's records show that each of Mr C's policies was sold by an independent adviser. And I 
can see from the records that Mr C has been told this before. He if wants to pursue his 
complaint about the sale of the policies further, he'll need to do so with the parties that sold 
them to him. The details of each adviser were set out in the investigator's view. 
As Aviva didn't sell the policies, it isn't the right party to respond to Mr C's concerns. I 
therefore don't require Aviva to do anything in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman