DRN-3514472
The complaint
Mr K complains about American Express Services Europe Limited trading as American 
Express (American Express) regarding it misinforming him about the value of his reward 
points. He wants American Express to honour the wrong information it gave to him during a 
phone call. 
What happened
Mr K held two credit cards with American Express. He had a rewards points balance of 
around 68,000 points
He fell into financial difficulties and contacted American Express about this. He queried 
whether he could use his reward points as credit towards his debt. This would not usually be 
allowed if the consumer had late payments or arrears.  
In December 2021, following a live chat, an agent of American Express called Mr K. They 
told him that he could use his reward points towards his debt, and they told him a calculation 
of the value of the points. The agent wrongly calculated the points redemption value and 
told Mr K they were worth around £30,000. Mr K wanted to proceed with the redemption. 
The following day, Mr K contacted American Express to check if the redemption had been 
done. During his conversation, the agent he spoke to told him the correct value of the points. 
Mr K queried this as it was substantially less than he had been told the previous day (1/100 
of the value he had been told the previous day) and the agent told him he had been 
misinformed about the value. The correct value was 0.45 pence per point, or £4.50 per 1000 
points. 
Mr K complained. He was upset as his initial conversation with American Express was based 
on an understanding that points were worth £0.45 or 45 pence per point. 
American Express responded to his complaint partially upholding it. American Express 
acknowledged that he had been given wrong information and it offered him £100 credit to his 
account. 
Mr K was not happy with this and contacted us. He wanted American Express to honour its 
initial quote. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. She did not 
think that American Express needed to do anything further. 
Mr K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have in particular considered the screen grab provided by Mr K and the points information 
provided by American Express. 
Confusion has arisen about the value of points because this is expressed differently in 
different places either in pence or pounds. In the screen grab provided by Mr K this is 
expressed as 0.45p. Elsewhere it is described as £4.50 per 1000 points. These are the 
same values, but it appears that the former (0.45p) has been read as meaning £0.45 (which 
would be 45 pence per point, rather than .45 pence per point). 
I have not seen any evidence that at any time American Express offered 45 pence per point, 
and this would be very unusual if it happened. 
Instead, the first conversation between Mr K and the agent involved the agent misreading 
the value as in pounds rather than pence. This misunderstanding generated the quoted 
redemption figure of around £30,000.00, when the correct value was around £300.00. 
This was a straight-forward human error which mismanaged Mr Ks expectations for a short 
period. He was, however, quickly corrected by American Express the next day, and he had 
already made the decision to redeem the points before this error took place. I therefore do 
not think it affected his decision making, but Im sure would have caused significant 
disappointment when he was given the impression his entire debt would be cleared, only to 
then have this expectation corrected.
I appreciate that Mr K thinks that American Express ought to honour its mistaken 
information, but that would not be fair. The higher value for the points was never available to 
him and we would not oblige any party to pay 100 times more than required based on a 
misreading of a figure. 
Mr K was caused some distress and inconvenience, however, and American Express ought 
to pay him compensation to reflect this. I agree with American Expresss assessment that 
£100 compensation is appropriate for the impact upon Mr K and the duration, but this ought 
to be paid directly to Mr K, rather than offset against his debt. 
Mr K has mentioned during the course of this complaint that he was suffering financial 
difficulties. As he has not complained to the business about these difficulties, I have not 
considered this specifically within this complaint, but Mr K may wish to discuss his situation 
with American Express to look at what options may be open to him. As with any financial 
difficulties situation we would expect American Express to deal positively and 
sympathetically with him, and if he considers that it has not done so he is free to make a 
complaint to the business about this. 
I appreciate that this decision will be disappointing to Mr K, but I hope it explains clearly the 
reasons I have reached it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think that American Express Services Europe Limited trading 
as American Express has made a reasonable offer of compensation to Mr K. I do, however, 
consider that this compensation ought to be paid directly to Mr K rather than offset against 
Mr Ks debt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-SmithOmbudsman