DRN-3196926
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt credit his account with the full amount of an 
account transfer.
What happened
Mr M says he transferred his Individual Savings Account (ISA) in May 2021 to HSBC. He 
says just over £10,239 ought to have been transferred but only about £1,267 reached his 
account. Mr M says this mistake caused stress and health issues and he would like an 
explanation for what took place as well as an in-depth look into HSBCs systems. Mr M also 
says the compensation paid of £50 is not enough.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It says it made an internal error which 
was corrected when Mr M told it about the problem. HSBC says it will offer a further £100 
compensation for what took place.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC had corrected the mistake on the same day and has offered an 
appropriate compensation amount of £150 in total.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he struggles to see how the mistake took place and 
would like further answers. He says the damage to his health justifies further compensation 
and maintains he hasnt received an apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made an appropriate 
compensation offer.
There is no issue here that HSBC made a mistake in not crediting the full ISA transfer to Mr 
Ms account. I have no doubt Mr M would have been concerned about the whereabouts of 
his money and concerned about what took place. I dont think there can be any doubt he 
was caused distress and inconvenience and would have spent some time bringing the 
mistake to HSBCs attention. But I am satisfied that HSBC fairly apologised for its mistake 
and has explained it was responsible for the mistake. I am sure Mr M appreciates that 
mistakes can take place.
The key issue here is the level of compensation. I dont think Mr M suffered any financial 
loss and can see the mistake was corrected in a day. Im satisfied that HSBC has made a 
fair and reasonable total compensation offer of £150 which I think fairly reflects the level of 
mistake here and the impact on Mr M. I make clear its not our role to punish a business or, 
as Mr M would like, conduct an investigation into the exact causes of the mistake. It is also 
not our role to conduct an investigation into HSBCs systems as Mr M would like.
I appreciate Mr M would like to have received a more in-depth analysis of the mistake and 
what took place. I dont think HSBC is obliged to provide such an explanation and am 
satisfied overall its apologised and offered appropriate compensation. I will leave it to Mr M 
to decide if he wishes to accept the further compensation offer of £100 and his acceptance 
of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman