DRN-3804360
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, closed his local branch without 
giving him notice. 
Mr S brought his complaint through a representative, but for ease of reading I will refer solely 
to Mr S throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr S says he discovered his local branch had permanently closed after noticing this online 
and then visiting to check. He had not been sent any communication warning him about the 
closure. This caused him distress which was exacerbated by his medical conditions. Mr S 
would like a written apology, an explanation as to why he was not pre-warned and 
compensation.
Halifax explained that it is not obliged to write to all customers prior to a branch closure, but 
it would usually contact customers with a sort code associated to a closing branch in 
advance. In this case Mr S did not have a sort code that was associated with the relevant 
branch. It acknowledged that the unexpected closure, without notice, must have frustrated 
Mr S.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said Halifax had not made an error or 
treated Mr S unfairly. It had followed its usual process for communications about branch 
closures. And we could not review either its process, or its decision to close the branch.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr S asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he did not 
agree, he had never been told his sort code was not associated with the branch that closed 
and Halifax had not told him about the Financial Conduct Authority, only about contacting 
this service. And we had not been clear whether or not we had contacted Halifax as part of 
our investigation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I do want to first reassure him though 
that we have asked questions of Halifax and received a submission from it, we have not just 
relied on the final response letter it sent him. 
Mr S also mentioned that Halifax did not tell him about the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, only about this service. But that is line with its regulatory obligations and is what it 
has to do in its final response letter  it must tell account holders that they can contact us if 
they are not satisfied with the banks response to their complaint.  
I understand Mr S was distressed to unexpectedly discover the branch had closed. Halifax 
has explained it would only tell account holders in advance if their account(s) had a sort 
code associated with the branch. Mr S says that he had never been told his sort code was 
not associated with that branch. Halifax has evidenced his sort code is an online sort code, 
as reflected by the IB (internet banking) narrative on his statement where it says Branch 
Name. 
I do understand Mr S might very reasonably not have been aware of what this meant, but I 
cant find that is a failing on the banks part. It is most likely just something that never came 
up for discussion between the parties. Halifaxs customer communications about this branch 
closure was in line with its standard process, and I cant find it has acted in error. It follows I 
cannot fairly instruct it to apologise or to compensate Mr S.
And as the investigator explained, a banks branch closure strategy is a commercial decision 
and not something we could interfere in.  
So whilst I am sorry that the closure, and the lack of notice, was distressing for Mr S and 
more so because of his personal circumstances, I cannot fairly conclude Halifax did anything 
wrong that it needs to put right.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman