DRN-3538885
The complaint
Miss D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by allowing her to 
go into unarranged overdraft which was unmanageable. She would like a refund of the 
charges and interest applied when she was in unarranged overdraft.  
What happened
Over a short period of time a number of transactions were authorised from Miss Ds account. 
These transactions put her over her arranged overdraft limit. Miss D complained to HSBC 
that it shouldnt have allowed her to go so far above her arranged overdraft limit. HSBC says 
that the debit payment was a guaranteed payment method and that as Miss D had 
previously provided the retailer with authority to take payments it continued to use that 
authority when further purchases were made. HSBC declined to refund the charges incurred 
as it says there was no bank error.
Miss D was dis-satisfied with this and bought her complaint to this service. Following this 
HSBC agreed to refund Miss Ds charges and interest for the time she was in unarranged 
overdraft. As this is what Miss D had requested to settle the matter our adjudicator agreed 
this was a fair way to settle the complaint.
Miss D didnt wish to accept this offer  as she doesnt think this addresses the distress 
caused at being allowed to go so far into arrears and has asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only addresses Miss Ds complaint point about being allowed 
to go into unarranged overdraft  my understanding is that the other complaint regarding 
disputed payments is being raised and dealt with separately.  
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what HSBC has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have and we may award modest compensation.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unmanageable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unmanageable. 
And in this case HSBC has already agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges for the 
entire period Miss D was in unarranged overdraft. This in both in-line with what Id expect if 
Id found it had done something wrong, and with what Miss D has requested as a means to 
put things right. 
So bearing all this in mind Im satisfied that what HSBC has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss D to decide whether she 
wishes to accept HSBCs offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman