DRN-2519302
The complaint
Mr K1 and Mr K2 are complaining that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires (BM) provided poor service and has unfairly refused to let them cancel a mortgage 
product. They want BM to cancel it and repay any additional repayments they might have 
made over and above the cost of a mortgage from another provider.
What happened
Mr K1 and Mr K2 are brothers and they have a joint mortgage for a property they own and 
rent out. They arranged a new mortgage product through a financial intermediary (often 
called a broker), which included a fixed rate of interest for a period of time.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 wanted to withdraw from the new product  but their broker said they 
couldnt, as there was no cancellation period. So they approached BM, which said they had 
5 days in which to withdraw and they should contact their broker about cancellation. The 
broker again said there was no cancellation period.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 got in touch with BM again  and this time it said theyd actually had a 14 
day cancellation period  but they were now too late to withdraw from the product.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 complained, saying that BMs poor service  both the time it took to get in 
touch and the incorrect information  had left them locked into a product that was costing 
more than they needed to pay.
BM acknowledged that the service it provided wasnt very good and that it had given 
incorrect information. It apologised for this and paid Mr K1 and Mr K2 £150 to make up for 
this. It said it wasnt responsible for the broker saying there was no cancellation period and 
wouldnt refund any additional costs Mr K1 and Mr K2 might incur.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 asked us to review the complaint. Our investigator thought BM had done 
enough, as the information about cancellation periods was available to the broker. He 
thought the compensation paid made up for the poor service and the incorrect information 
being given.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 dont agree. They say BM has only compensated them for the time they 
spent trying to get through to BM  which they say took many hours and involved phone 
lines cutting out. And they say that, as BM said they could contact it direct if they wanted to 
withdraw from the product, BM is responsible for their losses.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only look, in this complaint, at what BM did. So I cant comment on anything Mr K1 and 
Mr K2s broker did or said.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 say they were given incorrect information by BM about the cancellation 
period, and that they couldnt get through on the phone to cancel the product.
BM has acknowledged it made mistakes and has paid some compensation for this.
Mr K1 and Mr K2 think they should get substantially more compensation. So Ive thought 
carefully about how BMs mistakes might have affected them.
The mortgage transfer took place on 6 March. And at that point BM wrote and told Mr K1 
and Mr K2 that they had 5 days in which to cancel the transfer. It should have said 14 days.
BMs first record of telephone contact with Mr K1 and Mr K2 is on 25 March. So even if BM 
had got the information right when it wrote to them on 6 March, Mr K1 and Mr K2 were by 
now outside the 14 day period, which ended on 20 March.
I understand there were problems getting through to BM, but I cant say Ive seen evidence 
to show Mr K1 and Mr K2 were completely prevented from contacting BM, even it was taking 
a long time.
I also dont know if Mr K1 and Mr K2 would have been successful getting a mortgage at a 
cheaper rate than they now have. They might not have met all the criteria, which can differ 
for different mortgage products. But even if they could have, I dont think BM is responsible 
for any additional costs Mr K1 and Mr K2 think they may have to pay.
BM has paid Mr K1 and Mr K2 £150 to make up for the mistake in the correspondence and 
the problems Mr K1 and Mr K2 say they had with their phone lines. I think, taking everything 
into account, that this is reasonable, and BM need do no more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K1 and Mr K2 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman