DRN-4154379
The complaint
D, a limited company, applied for a Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage with Shawbrook Bank 
Limited. Mr D complains on behalf of D, that Shawbrook accepted mistaken conclusions 
from its surveyor about Ds property. Mr D wanted Shawbrook to pay the valuation fee back
What happened
Mr D told us he wanted to remortgage the property D owns. He applied on behalf of D to 
Shawbrook. D paid £1,950 for a valuation. But the surveyor said Ds property was a House 
in Multiple Occupation (HMO). This conclusion meant D would need a licence to continue 
letting properties within the building, and it significantly affected the valuation of the property. 
Mr D said this was wrong. He sent us the previous survey on the property, from a few years 
ago, and a more recent survey hed obtained after deciding not to go ahead with the 
mortgage with Shawbrook. Neither of these surveys suggested the property was an HMO. 
Mr D said that because Shawbrooks decision about the property was wrong, it should pay 
back the valuation fee to D. 
Shawbrook sent our service the valuation report it received, which sets out clearly the 
surveyors opinion that this is an HMO, and a licence is required. Shawbrook said it had 
discussed this conclusion with its surveyor, who remained of this view. It also said it had 
contacted the relevant council itself, and hadnt been able to confirm that an HMO licence 
would not currently be required for the property. 
Shawbrook said if Mr D could obtain confirmation from the local authority that an HMO 
licence is not required, it would review its position. But for the moment, it said it had to rely 
on the decision of its qualified chartered surveyors. Shawbrook said that firm has the 
appropriate experience, qualifications and expertise in valuing properties. 
So Shawbrook wouldnt change its mind. And Shawbrook wouldnt pay back the valuation 
fee that D had paid. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Shawbrook had relied 
on the professional opinion of an appropriately qualified surveyor. And it acted fairly, 
agreeing to reassess the application if D could provide evidence from the council to say that 
the property didnt need an HMO license after all. 
Our investigator said the valuation fee D paid was applied fairly for a service that was 
correctly executed. Shawbrook didnt make a mistake, in charging this, or in assessing Ds 
application. Just because a different bank then reached a different conclusion, didnt mean 
Shawbrook had done something wrong. So our investigator didnt think Shawbrook had to 
refund the fee it had charged. 
Mr D replied on behalf of D, to disagree. He said our service had ignored the evidence hed 
sent us, to show the property wasnt an HMO. He wanted to know why Shawbrook thought 
this was an HMO. He said no one suggested that a couple of years ago, when the same 
surveyors valued the property. And he repeated how seriously this classification affected the 
property. So he wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, and said that if 
things werent resolved through our service, he would take legal action against Shawbrook. 
Our investigator explained again that our service simply doesnt have the power to say that a 
valuation report was incorrect. He said Shawbrook had obtained a valuation from a surveyor 
who was both appropriately qualified and acting independently from the bank. Our 
investigator said we couldnt ask Shawbrook to do more than that. 
As no agreement was reached, this case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Shawbrook commissioned a valuation of Ds property. I can see the surveyor that 
Shawbrook used does hold the appropriate professional qualifications, and, as our 
investigator said, works for a firm which is separate to Shawbrook. I think this was a 
reasonable action for Shawbrook to take.
Shawbrook then received a valuation which said that Ds property was an HMO, and would 
require a licence. 
Mr D objected to this conclusion. He appears to have done so both because it would require 
D to get a licence to continue to let out parts of the property, and also because it significantly 
affected the valuation of the property. 
I can see that Shawbrook then pressed the surveyor on this, querying his conclusions. The 
surveyor remained confident this property would need an HMO licence. 
Our investigator has explained that our service cant comment on the surveyors opinion on 
this matter. Surveyors dont fall under the jurisdiction of our service. I can only look here at 
what Shawbrook did.
Mr D said a survey carried out by the same firm only a few years ago hadnt suggested the 
property required a licence. But Shawbrooks surveyor said the legislation had changed in 
early 2022. That means previous conclusions on this point wouldnt assist in deciding if a 
property requires an HMO licence now. 
I have also listened to a call that Shawbrook had with the local council. Shawbrook rang the 
council, to see if the conclusion the surveyors had reached was, as Mr D said, clearly wrong. 
Shawbrook wasnt able to get that reassurance from the council. The matter doesnt appear 
to have been beyond any doubt  apparently the council was actively considering this issue, 
and hadnt yet reached any decision either way on whether the limited amount of shared 
amenities or facilities which Mr D acknowledges exist in his property, do make this property 
subject to HMO licensing. 
Mr D has sent a considerable amount of documentation to our service, to show the property 
ought not to be classed as an HMO by Shawbrook. It appears that what Mr D would like, is 
for our service to overturn the decision of Shawbrooks surveyor. But, as our investigator explained, our service isnt able to do that for him. All I am able to do here is consider what 
Shawbrook did. 
I have to think about whether, with the information we know of in front of it, Shawbrook acted 
reasonably. 
As part of that, I note that Shawbrook itself doesnt claim to have expertise in property 
valuations or the status of buildings which provide homes for more than one household. It 
relies on the expertise of others, for a conclusion on those issues. 
As Ive said, the council wasnt able to provide a firm answer either way as to whether this 
property ought to be treated as an HMO or not. But what I need to consider here is whether 
Shawbrook has acted reasonably. And, with a firm indication from its surveyor that Ds 
property was an HMO, and unfortunately no support from the council for Mr Ds counter 
argument, I think its reasonable for Shawbrook to have treated this property as an HMO. 
Shawbrook has said that it would review this conclusion if Mr D could obtain confirmation 
from the local council that an HMO licence wasnt required for the property. But Mr D doesnt 
appear to have sent that to Shawbrook, or to our service.
Mr D wanted Shawbrook to pay back the substantial valuation fee D had paid. Mr D hasnt 
suggested that he was misled by Shawbrook into believing that the valuation fee he paid 
was refundable. Shawbrook has said that D applied through a broker, and its broker ought to 
have explained to Mr D that the valuation fee wasnt refundable. 
In the circumstances of this case, I dont think Shawbrook has to make the refund that Mr D 
would like. I know that Mr D, on behalf of D, will be disappointed, but I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman