DRN-3213422
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled a claim he made on 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
In September 2019, Mr D booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call A. He planned to travel 
between 11 February and 24 March 2020. His return flight was via a country Ill call S.
However, on 23 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign, 
Commonwealth & Development Office advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. 
And S government banned non-nationals from transiting at its airport.
This meant that when Mr D arrived at the airport on 24 March 2020, his airline didnt allow 
him to board his return flight. So Mr D arranged to stay with relatives until he was able to 
arrange a new return flight. He flew back to the UK on 5 April 2020 and made a claim for the 
costs associated with the extension of his trip. 
Ultimately, UKI settled Mr Ds claim in line with the travel delay section of the policy, up to 
the limit of £1000 per person. It also paid Mr D £200 compensation for failings in the way it 
handled the claim.
Mr D was unhappy with the settlement and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told us 
he still had broadly £525 of remaining costs outstanding, comprised of his new return flight 
and expenses hed incurred whilst staying with relatives in A.
Our investigator thought UKI had settled Mr Ds claim fairly and in line with the travel delay 
provision in the policy. She didnt think that the abandonment provision applied to Mr Ds 
circumstances. Thats because she felt this cover only applied to outbound flights from the 
UK and because Mr D had told her that the flight had run as scheduled  it hadnt been 
cancelled.
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he felt the investigator had misinterpreted the abandonment 
cover set out in the policy. The policy didnt require him to return to his home address 
immediately  hed used best endeavours to return home as soon as he could. And hed 
taken reasonable steps by staying with his family.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think UKI has settled his claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, whilst Ive summarised the background to this complaint and Mr Ds detailed 
submissions to us, Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully considered all hes said and 
sent us. Within my decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor 
do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ds policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether UKI treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with UKI. Whilst during the claims process, there was some dispute as to which 
version of the policy terms applied to Mr Ds claim, all parties now agree that the pre-
November 2019 contract wording applies. So thats what Ive considered in deciding this 
complaint.
It's clear that Mr D feels strongly that at the point he was denied boarding to his original 
return flight, his travel plans were effectively curtailed or abandoned. The policy does provide 
cover for a policyholders holiday curtailment. However, UKI has set out what it means by 
curtailment in the policy terms. Its defined as: Cutting short your journey after its 
commencement to return to your home address or business address. In this case, Mr Ds 
trip wasnt cut short and he didnt return to the UK early. Instead, his trip abroad was 
necessarily extended. So I dont think UKI acted unfairly when it ultimately concluded that 
the claim didnt fall under the policy curtailment cover.
UKI settled the claim under the Travel delay and abandonment section of the policy. This 
says:
What you are covered for
1. Delay
We will pay you up to £1,000 per insured person after the first four hours delay of the 
prebooked flight, sailing, train or coach journey for additional expenses such as 
accommodation, travel, meals and refreshments which arise because the transport 
you have checked-in for is delayed  it doesnt cover the cost of telephone calls.
2. Abandonment 
i. We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person, if you decide to abandon 
the journey and return to your home address, where we will pay for journey 
deposits and costs, or
ii. travel to your pre-booked destination by alternative means, where we will pay 
additional expenses such as accommodation, travel (to a similar standard as 
you had already booked and paid for), meals and refreshments because your 
prebooked flight, sailing, train or coach journey from the UK is delayed for at 
least:
- six hours, on journeys of four nights or less, or
- twelve hours, on journeys of five nights or more
or you are prevented from starting your journey or returning to the UK because airspace has
been closed on the orders of an official Government or regulatory body for more than 24
hours following your scheduled departure. (Emphasis added.)UKI eventually settled Mr Ds claim up to the travel delay limit of £1000 per person, even 
though strictly, it doesnt appear that the flight itself had been delayed or cancelled. He 
simply wasnt able to board it and had to remain abroad for a further nine days. This means I 
think that UKI acted outside of the contract terms when dealing with Mr Ds claim, which I 
find was a very fair response in light of the unprecedented circumstances presented by 
Covid-19. 
While I acknowledge Mr D feel strongly that his claim is covered under the abandonment 
provisions Ive set out above, Im afraid I disagree. I say that first because I think the policy 
terms make sufficiently clear the circumstances in which abandonment cover will apply. The 
first is where a trip has been abandoned or additional expenses have been incurred in 
travelling to a policyholders destination because their flight, boat, train or coach journey from 
the UK has been delayed for a set period. As such then, this first provision applies only to a 
policyholders outbound journey. Mr Ds trip wasnt abandoned on the outbound flight and he 
didnt incur any additional expenses in travelling to A because of delays on his outward flight. 
UKI also says it will pay claims under the abandonment section of the policy if a policyholder 
is prevented from returning to the UK if airspace has been closed on the orders of an official 
body. But in this case, airspace wasnt closed. Whilst there may have been restrictions on 
international travel which impacted Mr Ds pre-booked flight, hes told us the flight took off as 
planned. Flights were able to travel internationally  and indeed, Mr D was able to secure 
flights at a later date. So I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that the claim 
didnt fall within the scope of abandonment cover. 
Ive looked closely at the remaining sections of the policy. But I dont think there are any 
other sections of the contract which would cover the circumstances of Mr Ds claim. On the 
facts of this case, I find UKI acted fairly and reasonably when it ultimately settled Mr Ds 
claim in line with the applicable travel delay policy limit.
It's clear though that there were some delays in assessing this claim and it was initially 
assessed under a newer version of the policy terms, which led to Mr D being paid a lower 
settlement. I dont doubt that this caused Mr D additional frustration and upset. So Im 
pleased to see that when UKI recalculated the delay settlement due to Mr D, it also paid him 
£200 compensation to reflect any failures in its customer service. Im satisfied this was a fair 
response from UKI in the circumstances.
Overall, while I do sympathise with Mr Ds position because I appreciate he was stranded 
abroad through no fault of his own and hes been left out of pocket, Im not telling UKI to do 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman