DRN-3746239
The complaint
This complaint is about how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) handled 
Mr Ws mortgage account when he fell into arrears during the coronavirus Covid-19 
pandemic (the pandemic).
What happened
Mr W says he fell behind on his contractual monthly payments (CMPs) as his income 
suffered during the pandemic. He says he was abroad at the time and not receiving any 
post, so he didnt know Halifax was starting legal proceedings against him until he heard 
from Halifaxs solicitor. 
Mr W says he had tried to arrange a repayment plan with Halifax prior to this, but when calls 
cut off, he was not called back. Mr W thinks Halifax should have made more effort to get in 
touch with him before taking legal action. He says the situation has caused him a lot of 
stress and he would like the associated legal fees refunded. 
Halifax reviewed Mr Ws concerns but said it followed the relevant regulations and its own 
processes correctly. Under the circumstances, it saw no reason to refund the fees it applied 
to Mr Ws mortgage account.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws concerns but didnt find that Halifax had done anything 
wrong. As Mr W remained unhappy, the complaint was referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Mr W appears to have made his CMPs on time up to, and including, March 2020. After this, 
Mr W says he started to feel the effects of the pandemic on his income and Halifax granted 
payment deferrals. Mr W says the payment deferrals happened in March 2021, but looking 
at his statements, I think they started in April 2020. Mr W resumed his CMPs in 
November 2020 and only had a small sum in arrears. But in February 2021, Mr Ws direct 
debit was returned unpaid and he didnt start making his CMPs again until July 2021.
Mr W says he contacted Halifax to make it aware of his circumstances and assured it he 
intended to bring the arrears up to date. I can see he did call on 24 May 2021, around three 
months after he began missing CMPs. He asked if there was any chance of getting another 
payment deferral, or if there were any other options. The call handler confirmed Mr W could 
not have another payment deferral but asked him a number of questions to try and 
understand his circumstances. The call handler advised Mr W he would need to complete an 
income and expenditure form. The line was poor, so Mr W agreed to complete the form 
online, which he said he would do within 24 hours. The call handler asked Mr W to call back 
in two days once it was done and Mr W confirmed he would do this  this was repeated and 
confirmed a few times.
I note that during the same call, Mr W said he doesnt answer calls unless he knows who it 
is. He mentioned that he had received a voicemail from Halifax but asked if he could know 
the number Halifax would call from, so he could identify any calls. The call handler gave 
Mr W one of the numbers Halifax might use, but asked Mr W if he would like her to add his 
overseas address to his account so he would receive correspondence. Mr W said to leave 
the address as it was. Mr W has since said this was because he could not guarantee he 
would safely receive post at the address he was residing in at the time. 
Following this, I cant see that Mr W phoned Halifax back two days later. And Mr W has 
since confirmed he didnt phone back because he didnt see the need given hed submitted 
the form online. But Halifax hadnt given Mr W any reason to think he shouldnt call back  
Mr W was specifically asked to phone back a number of times. This was so the income and 
expenditure form could be reviewed and a repayment plan could be discussed. As Mr W 
chose not to phone back when hed agreed to, a repayment plan was not arranged, and the 
arrears remained on his account.
Halifax has provided its call logs as well as some call recordings that show it had a phone 
call with Mr W on 26 July 2021, but it disconnected, and the call handler was unsuccessful in 
their attempt to call Mr W back. Again, on 4 August 2021, there is a record Mr W had tried to 
call and sort out an arrangement, but the call cut off when he was placed on hold. Both of 
these calls took place before Halifax actioned any legal proceedings, but as the issue was 
still not resolved, it began legal proceedings in August 2021. 
Halifax had sent letters to Mr W about the arrears on 1, 15 and 31 July 2021. Then, on 
26 August 2021, Halifax sent another letter to confirm it had started legal action. The letters 
were sent to Mr Ws residential address and I appreciate Mr W had notified Halifax he was 
overseas and would not receive his post. But Mr W didnt give Halifax a forwarding address 
when he was asked about this. And Halifax made it clear it would only communicate by post 
or phone.
Mr W now says he thinks Halifax should have been able to correspond by email or text 
message, but its not up to me to tell Halifax which methods it should use. Ultimately, Mr W 
was aware Halifax would only contact him by post or phone, so if he hadnt heard anything, 
given the serious consequences of not keeping up with CMPs  like having your home 
repossessed  I think Mr W ought to have phoned Halifax back particularly as this is what 
hed agreed to do previously. 
Mr W says he only found out about the legal proceedings when Halifaxs solicitor phoned 
him and left a message to inform him a court hearing date had been set for a possession 
order. Mr W says if the solicitor was able to get in touch, then surely Halifax could have done 
this sooner. Ive looked into this further, and on 20 August 2021, I can see Halifax reviewed Mr Ws 
account and decided to hold legal proceedings until 25 August 2021 in order to try and 
contact him again to resolve the issue. The call records and recordings provided show 
Halifax left voicemails for Mr W twice on 24 August 2021 and once on 
25 and 26 August 2021. So, as the account hold had expired and there was still no 
agreement in place, Halifax proceeded with legal action on 26 August 2021.
Halifax tried to call Mr W again on 15 September 2021, but the call did not transfer to 
voicemail. Having listened to the call it sounds as though the phone was answered and then 
ended. Halifax tried again and left a voicemail on 28 September 2021. 
Mr W spoke to Halifaxs solicitor on 4 October 2021. I understand Mr W says this is the first 
time he heard about the legal proceedings and he still disputes that Halifax ever tried to 
phone him. But the evidence Ive seen shows that Halifax attempted to speak with him 
several times and left voicemails stressing the urgency of Mr W calling back  I wouldnt 
have expected Halifax to provide any more detail than that. And I havent been made aware 
of any reasonable explanation as to why Mr W wouldnt have received the missed calls and 
voicemails Ive seen and listened to. 
I think its more likely than not, based on Mr Ws comments in the call on 24 May 2021, that 
he avoided the calls as he didnt know it was Halifax calling. Mr W wanted to know what 
numbers the calls would have come from in order to see if he avoided answering or not, but I 
dont think this is relevant. I have seen enough evidence to satisfy me that Halifax did make 
the calls and I cant hold Halifax responsible for Mr Ws personal decision not to answer 
unknown numbers. 
Mr W says he doesnt feel it was fair for Halifax to proceed with legal action as he had 
started making his CMPs again from July 2021. That Halifax should have seen that he was 
co-operating and preventing his arrears from increasing. But ultimately, he hadnt cleared the 
arrears and he hadnt gotten so far as to make an arrangement to repay the arrears. Mr Ws 
phone calls to Halifax were fairly infrequent in the circumstances, so I dont think Halifax had 
any specific reassurance Mr W was going to clear the arrears and I note a repayment plan 
wasnt put in place until 16 December 2021. So, I think the action Halifax took was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Halifax eventually managed to speak to Mr W on 6 October 2021, at which point Mr W 
provided his address overseas. Then, on 15 October 2021, Halifaxs records show it 
received an email from Mr W attaching his financial information. This was a step towards 
resolving the issuing, but a repayment plan still hadnt been agreed and Mr W had been in 
arrears for several months. So, Halifax proceeded with the court date set, the case was 
reviewed, and a judge granted a suspended possession order in November 2021. I think 
Halifax made reasonable efforts to resolve the situation prior to this.
In summary, Ive thought carefully about everything and Im satisfied Halifax tried to work 
with Mr W to set up a repayment plan for the arrears before it took legal action. Mr W was 
aware that Halifax would correspond by letter but refused its offer to send letters to him 
overseas. This meant the only way Halifax could get in touch with Mr W was by phone and 
there are a number of records and recordings that show Halifax attempted to phone Mr W 
and left voicemails for him. After multiple attempts to speak to Mr W, and more importantly, 
to arrange repayment of the arrears on his account, Halifax eventually proceeded with legal 
action. Considering everything, I think Halifax has treated Mr W fairly and I dont make any 
award to him.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman