DRN-1896567
The complaint
Mrs W complains Card Protection Plan Ltd (CCP) has not refunded premiums she paid for 
card protection and identity theft protection insurance under the redress scheme.
What happened
In 2019, Mrs W contacted CPP about a refund due to her under the redress scheme. She 
says she was prompted to do this because of the Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
deadline.
CPP looked into Mrs Ws policies. It said claim forms had been sent to Mrs W in 2014 but no 
claim had ever been received from Mrs W. So now Mrs Ws claims for compensation were 
time barred and she wasnt entitled to any redress under the scheme.
 
Mrs W wasnt happy with this so she referred her complaint to our service. Initially CPP said 
they thought this complaint had been brought to our service too late, but our investigator 
explained why that wasnt the case. Our Investigator then considered Mrs Ws complaint, but 
said she thought Mrs Ws claims for compensation were time barred under the redress 
scheme and so CPP hadnt treated Mrs W unfairly because, in her view, CPP had acted in 
line with the rules of the redress scheme.
Mrs W didnt agree. She thought CPP shouldve sent the paperwork about the claims to her 
recorded delivery and as they didnt, they should still pay her any refund she wouldve been 
due under the scheme. 
As Mrs W didnt accept the Investigators findings, the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Mrs W had three policies with CPP.
 
CPP said it wasnt responsible under the redress scheme for one of those policies, so it 
directed Mrs Ws complaint about that one to the business responsible. CPP responded to 
Mrs Ws complaint about a second policy but said it also wasnt responsible for this one 
under the redress scheme.
 
So Im only considering here the one remaining policy Mrs W had with CPP, which its 
responsible for. 
As our Investigator explained, in 2013, the FCA agreed a redress scheme to compensate 
consumers with card protection policies. The scheme was authorised by the High Court. In 
summary, the redress scheme required businesses like CPP to return premiums paid on or 
after 14 January 2005 to people who made a claim under the scheme. 
The FCA also decided that the ombudsman service should, when considering complaints 
such as Mrs Ws, follow the rules of the scheme where the policy wouldve been covered by 
the scheme and that our fair and reasonable remit was removed. Im satisfied Mrs Ws policy 
wouldve been covered by the scheme. This means that Im only considering whether CPP 
have followed the redress scheme.
CPP have sent us screen shots showing that claim forms were sent to Mrs W on 
10 February 2014, and a reminder was sent on 27 June 2014. The redress scheme was 
administered by a third party, so CPP dont have a copy of the claim forms. 
CPPs records show that Mrs W received, completed and returned her voting form which 
was sent out to the same address on 26 November 2013. So its not clear why the voting 
form wouldve been received but the claim forms wouldnt have been. 
The records show all correspondence was sent to Mrs Ws address  which is the same 
address we hold for her. Mrs W says she never received the claim form and CPP were 
responsible for making sure they were received by her. She says they should have been 
sent recorded delivery.
Mrs W has previously asked to see copies of the claim forms and other correspondence 
which was sent to her. But CPP dont have a copy of this. So we cant provide it. I dont think 
this makes a difference to Mrs Ws overall complaint though. Ill explain why.
 
Under the scheme rules there was no requirement for CPP to ensure the documents were 
received by Mrs W. So there was no obligation for the documents to be sent by recorded 
delivery. Indeed, the scheme rules specifically say The Bar Date will apply to all Scheme 
Creditors irrespective of whether or not they receive actual written notice of the Scheme. 
So, despite Mrs Ws arguments, there was no obligation on CPP to ensure she received the 
claim form. 
The redress scheme rules also say, in order to make a claim, claim forms must be received 
before the bar date. If the claim forms are received after this date, the claim will be rejected 
and the customer will have no right to redress. Under the scheme, claims had to be made by 
the bar date, which was 30 August 2014. Theres no dispute that Mrs W never made a claim. 
As a claim wasnt submitted by the bar date, Im satisfied that Mrs Ws claim would now be 
time barred. 
I dont know why Mrs W didnt receive the letters but there was no obligation for CPP to 
ensure they were sent recorded delivery, and Im satisfied that they were sent - and to the 
correct address. So it follows that I find CPP have acted in line with redress scheme. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman