DRN-3622445
Complaint
Mr M has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) irresponsibly lent to him. 
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr M with a loan for £4,500.00 in June 2015. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £171. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms 
complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr M with his loan. Avant 
Credit disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Preliminary matters
Avant Credit has suggested that this complaint was made too late as it was made more than 
six years after the loan was provided. But even though this may be the case, it has already 
received an explanation about why the complaint was made within three years of when Mr M 
ought to have been aware of his cause to complain. 
Ive seen what Avant Credit has said about other cases. But Ive not seen anything to 
demonstrate that Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware of his complaint more than 
three years before he complained. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr M complained in time. 
What I think about Avant Credits decision to lend to Mr M
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check. The 
results of which appear to show that Mr M was already significantly indebted and had more 
than one revolving credit account which was close to its limit. And while Avant Credit says 
this loan was for debt consolidation, the amount didnt correspond to what Mr M owed. So 
its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was 
going to improve Mr Ms financial position. 
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr Ms expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr M was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also seen why this 
was the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have shown Avant Credit that Mr Ms existing precarious financial position was due 
to a fluctuating income, which hadnt improved in a while. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding 
out about Mr Ms income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. As Avant Credit 
provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. Mr M ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman