DRN-3832312
The complaint
Mr W complains about difficulties obtaining statements for his mortgage account with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr W repaid his Barclays mortgage in October 2021. Barclays sent a closing statement 
which showed transactions from 1 to 13 October 2021. However, Mr W hadnt received an 
annual statement since October 2020. He asked Barclays for statements for October 2020 to 
October 2021. There were delays in Barclays providing this.
Mr W also complains that Barclays sent a certificate of interest to his previous address. He 
said Barclays didnt confirm it had reported the data breach to ICO.
Barclays accepted it sent the certificate of interest to Mr Ws old address due to a system 
error and paid £50 compensation. It also accepted there were delays in it providing 
statements to Mr W, and he had to make repeated requests. It sent statements to Mr W at 
his new address in July 2022. Unfortunately, Mr W didnt receive them.
Barclays said it didnt issue an annual statement in October 2021 as Mr Ws mortgage was 
repaid before the annual statement was generated, and it cant now provide this. It provided 
a list of transactions on Mr Ws account between October 2020 and October 2021 which our 
investigator forwarded to Mr W. Barclays said it had now raised the wrongly addressed 
certificate as a data breach.
Our investigator said there were avoidable delays and Barclays should pay compensation of 
£100. This was in addition to the £50 already paid. Our investigator said she couldnt fairly 
require Barclays to provide statements in a format that it had said wasnt possible. And she 
had no reason to doubt that Barclays had sent statements in July 2022.
Mr W said the list of transactions wasnt in the right format, it didnt have a running balance, 
it wasnt complete and he didnt understand why it showed a negative balance after the 
mortgage was repaid. He disputed that Barclays had sent statements in July 2022. And he 
wanted to know how the data breach had been dealt with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays made some errors here. So I have to consider if its done enough to put matters 
right. 
Mr Ws mortgage was repaid before Barclays systems generated his annual statement for 
October 2020 to October 2021. But the closing statement for Mr Ws account only included 
the first half of October 2021. 
Mr W asked for statements for October 2020 to October 2021 showing incomings, outgoings 
and interest. Barclays has now provided this information. Mr W wants Barclays to provide 
statements which show a running balance, which Barclays says it cant provide. Mr W hasnt 
explained why he needs statements that include a running balance. I dont think in the 
circumstances its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to provide this.
Barclays says the remaining balance shown on the list of transactions reflects a previous 
balance. It confirmed the mortgage balance is zero, and sent a screen shot of its records to 
confirm this. This was also clear from the mortgage closing statement sent to Mr W in 
October 2021.
Mr W didnt receive the statements Barclays says it sent to him in July 2022. Given the 
errors Barclays made, I can appreciate why Mr W says he doesnt think Barclays sent the 
statements to him. Barclays cant provide evidence that it did  and equally I dont have 
evidence that it didnt. A list of transactions on the mortgage account between October 2020 
and October 2021 has now been provided to Mr W. 
Mr W asked Barclays in July 2022 to report its data breach in sending a certificate of interest 
to his previous address. Barclays has now raised the data breach internally, so that the 
correct process will be followed, and accepts it should have done this when it was first aware 
of the data breach. Mr W hasnt provided evidence that this error resulted in his personal 
data falling into the wrong hands or that the data breach has caused him any loss. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to take further action. 
If Mr W remains concerned whether Barclays followed the correct process in relation to the 
data breach he can consider contacting ICO.
Putting things right
Barclays has now provided the information about Mr Ws closed mortgage account that he 
asked for. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to provide the information or 
statements in a different format. But I think its right that Barclays pays compensation. It took 
too long to provide the information and Mr W had to chase for it. It had to confirm the 
balance of Mr Ws account was zero as the list of transactions showed a negative balance. 
And it made an error when sending the certificate of interest to Mr Ws previous address. I 
think for the inconvenience all this caused to Mr W, compensation of £100 (in addition to the 
£50 already paid) is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £100 to 
Mr W (in addition of the £50 already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman