DRN-3431134
The complaint
Mr A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim under his property 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has a property owners insurance policy with AXA which covers a commercial property 
he owns. 
He made a claim in June 2021 after his tenant reported a leak in the roof. 
AXA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. They reported that the damage was gradual 
and not caused by an insured event.
Mr A thought the damage had been caused by a storm and made a complaint to AXA about 
their decision to decline the claim. 
AXA didnt uphold the main part of Mr As complaint, although they gave Mr A £50 
compensation for the way theyd handled one of his calls. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think AXA had done anything wrong. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants AXA to pay for 
the repairs to his roof, repairs to internal damage resulting from the leak and loss of rent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy terms are reasonably clear. They say AXA will cover damage or loss caused by 
certain events  sometimes called insured events or perils. These include storm, flood, 
escape of water and other events. 
They also say AXA will not cover damage resulting from wear and tear or gradually 
operating causes (including frost, dampness, or dryness).
These terms are reasonably standard for buildings insurance policies. And they arent 
inherently unfair. 
To put it as straightforwardly as I can, insurers will usually cover damage or loss caused by 
unfortunate, one-off accidents or events. Insurers will very rarely pay to replace or repair 
parts of buildings that are worn out, past their shelf-life or poorly maintained.
AXAs surveyors judgement was that the leak in Mr As roof was caused by gradual 
deterioration and/or poor maintenance. 
The report said there was plant growth in the gutters and there were internal valleys in the 
roof which simply discharged water onto the roof below.
The report included photographs which showed growing vegetation in the gutters and 
patches of green algae on the roof tiles directly underneath the internal valleys.
Mr A said the damage had been caused by a storm. But weather reports show that there 
was no storm in the days and weeks preceding the claim being made. 
Its Mr As responsibility when making a claim to point out the damage or loss hes suffered 
and to indicate the insured event which likely led to that damage. Mr A hasnt done that. He 
cant point to a storm which caused the damage  because there was no storm.
In that context, its not unreasonable or unfair for AXA to decline Mr As claim.
Mr A provided AXA with a report from a roofer which listed the issues with Mr As roof and 
said these were likely down to storms or poor weather. 
The roofer is not a surveyor and his report was provided at least in part to quote for the 
necessary work. 
Its also unclear from the report whether the roofer believes all of the damage was caused by 
a particular storm event or by storms and poor weather more generally (over time). 
He also notes damage which would be unlikely to be caused by an individual storm  such 
as concrete fillings missing entirely from the roof.
On balance, its not unreasonable for AXA to take their surveyors report as a more reliable 
and qualified opinion on the likely cause of the damage. And, as Ive already said, there was 
no storm at the relevant time.
If Mr A wished to provide an independent expert report on the state of his roof  and/or any 
other evidence to show that the damage was in fact caused by an insured event  Im sure 
AXA will take that into account and look again at the claim. 
But I cant reasonably conclude that AXA have done anything wrong in the way they handled 
Mr As claim to date.
I understand Mr A made a further claim to AXA relating to what he believes is damage 
caused by subsidence. 
I also understand hes made a complaint about AXAs handling of that claim too. To be clear, 
were dealing with that as a separate complaint and I cant comment on it in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman