DRN-2073303
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Investor Compensation (UK) Ltd (IC) are charging him a fee for a 
successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2014, Mr H instructed IC to make mis-selling claims against a number of financial 
organisations, including Lender N. The claim against Lender N was successful in October 
2014 and IC invoiced Mr H for their fees.
Mr H has complained that IC didnt have the jurisdiction to deal with the claim against Lender 
N  the claim was being made against their Isle of Man subsidiary and Manx Law meant he 
had to deal with this claim himself. Hes also complained that IC didnt cancel the claim in 
September 2014 when he told them about the jurisdiction issue and when he asked them to 
stop acting for him.
Our investigator said that that Mr H had instructed IC to make the claim against Lender N, 
and they did so. Because IC made the claim as instructed, and the claim was successful, 
she thought they were entitled to charge their fees. The investigator also said there was no 
record of Mr H cancelling this claim before it was successful. So she didnt think IC needed 
to do anything.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He says he dealt with the claim himself because IC 
didnt have the jurisdiction to do so, and he thinks IC have deleted phone calls off their 
system. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen that Mr H instructed IC to make mis-sold PPI claims on his behalf on 24 July 2014. 
And the evidence shows that IC prepared and submitted the claim. 
Lender Ns letter of 19 September 2014 was sent to both Mr H and IC. This explains that, 
even though Mr Hs accounts were held in the Isle of Man, the claim was dealt with by 
Lender Ns Jersey subsidiary as this is where their offshore (non-UK) accounts were 
administered from. So, while Mr H is saying that Manx Law doesnt allow anyone to make a 
mis-selling claim on his behalf; because his accounts were based in, and administered from, 
Jersey, then any restrictions to accounts administered in the Isle of Man wouldnt apply.
Lender Ns letter of 14 October 2014 was also sent to both Mr H and IC. This said the claim 
had been successful and Mr H was given 14 days to accept this offer. He was also asked to 
complete and return an acceptance form before any money was paid. Lender N also advised 
Mr H that it was his responsibility to pay any fees that may be due to any third-party 
company who made the claim on his behalf  in this case IC.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr H instructed IC to make the claim and, by corresponding with 
IC throughout, Lender N acknowledged that IC were representing Mr H in his claim. Its not 
disputed that Mr H dealt with Lender N directly, for example when completing the forms 
necessary to receive his payment, but this doesnt alter the fact that IC were acting for him. 
IC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. But, 
where a claim was successful, ICs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. So, just because ICs fee is 
higher than the value of the work they did for Mr H, this doesnt make their fee unjustified.
Mr H is unhappy that IC cant provide copies of the calls he says he made to them. When IC 
acted for Mr H there wasnt a requirement for them to record calls. And any calls they did 
record only had to be kept for a reasonable time after the claim was completed. As the 
claim was successful in October 2014, I wouldnt expect the calls to still be available six 
years later. This lack of call recordings doesnt mean IC are trying to hide something, and I 
cant uphold a complaint on the lack of call recordings alone.
IC have provided copies of their call logs and call notes. These dont show that Mr H called 
to cancel the claim at any point before October 2014, and its only after the claim was 
successful, and hed been invoiced for their fees, does the issue of jurisdiction get raised. Im 
aware that Mr H disputes this and Ive taken these concerns into account. But Ive seen 
nothing to show me that the call notes arent correct or werent made at the time. For that 
reason I consider them reasonable to rely on.
Because of this I agree that IC are entitled to charge their fees.
Mr H has disputed ICs fees since he was originally invoiced in 2014, and hes refused to pay 
them. IC have now started legal action to recover their fees, which Mr H says is intimidating, 
threating and stressful. As he disputes the fees, I accept he would feel that way about this. 
But IC are entitled to charge their fees, and theyre entitled to attempt to collect them. Given 
the time thats passed since the invoice was issued, I dont think IC have acted unreasonably 
by starting legal action. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Investor 
Compensation (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman