DRN-3426032
The complaint
Miss M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) has refused to refund 
fraudulent transactions on her account.
What happened
Miss M says APS has refused to refund a number of fraudulent transactions paid out of her 
account to a business I will call A between May and August 2021. She says she doesnt 
have an account with A and hasnt since 2020. Miss M says she would like the money 
refunded and says she wasnt responsible for the transactions.
APS says Miss M told it at the time of the transactions she was expecting a refund from A 
and says it clear she had a relationship with it. It says it offered to raise a dispute with A 
about the transactions but says Miss M refused. APS says there is no evidence of fraud.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss M hadnt answered a series of questions he asked her about the account card 
use and why she didnt report the transactions earlier as she would have been aware the 
money left her account. The investigator thought it more likely on balance that Miss M made 
the transactions either herself or via a friend.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and maintains she doesnt have an account with A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at APSs records and can see that Miss M was in regular contact with 
it and told it in July 2021 that she was expecting a refund from A. I can also see that Miss A 
later told APS that the transactions to A which started in May 2021 and continued to August 
2021 were fraudulent as she didnt have an account with A. In those circumstances Im 
satisfied that on balance APS was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss A did have a 
relationship with A and that there wasnt enough evidence to conclude the transactions were 
fraudulent. It follows that I dont think APS acted unfairly here or made a mistake.
Im also satisfied that APS fairly told Miss M that it would raise a dispute with A about the 
payments. That would have meant that A could have investigated the transactions in more 
detail and provided more information about them such as where the items were delivered to 
and where the order originated. I appreciate Miss M didnt want APS to do so and that of 
course was her choice, but I think APSs offer was fair and reasonable.
Overall, Im satisfied APS tried to help Miss M and was reasonably entitled in the 
circumstances of this complaint to conclude there wasnt any evidence of fraud. It follows 
that I cant fairly order APS to refund Miss M the payments to A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman