DRN-1708803
The complaint
On behalf of B (a limited company) Mrs B, its director, says Henderson Insurance Brokers 
Limited provided poor service when arranging a commercial motor insurance policy for B 
that caused it financial loss.
What happened
Henderson became Bs broker a few days before the renewal of its policy was due. It said 
insurer A (not well known in the UK) offered the best available premium. But there was also 
an offer of cover for B from a major UK insurer that was £1,500 lower, from a previous 
broker. Henderson offered to pick it up, but Mrs B accepted the policy for B with insurer A. It 
started in August 2017 and B paid the full annual premium. In May 2018, insurer A declared 
bankruptcy, leaving B without cover for the last three months of the policy term.  
Henderson quickly found a policy for B with a major UK insurer and one with a lesser-known 
insurer. Mrs B accepted cover from the major insurer. Later, she complained that B had to 
pay a higher premium than previously to cover the last three months of the policy year, when 
it had already paid insurer A for that. She was also concerned about B not getting a refund 
from insurer A. She said she wouldnt have accepted insurer A as Bs insurer had 
Henderson pointed out that it was unrated, so in her view it was at fault in not doing so.
Henderson said Mrs B didnt say a financial rating was a demand or need for B. It pointed 
out that ratings agencies offer no assurance about the security of rated insurers, just an 
opinion on their financial stability. And it referred to Mrs B having chosen insurer A when an 
offer of cover from a major UK-based insurer was available. 
Henderson agreed that the replacement insurance for B was more expensive (partly 
because B had made two claims on the policy with insurer A that still had to be paid by the 
new insurer). Henderson also said it had reduced its commission charge and had also 
absorbed the charge for B paying the premium to the new insurer in instalments. It said that 
lowered the sum due from B by almost £3,000. In addition, Henderson said it assisted Mrs B 
in dealing with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in the hope that it 
might refund the premium B lost due to insurer As bankruptcy. 
Henderson accepted that it should have informed Mrs B that insurer A was unrated. But it 
said an insurers solvency cant be guaranteed by a broker - as set out in its terms and 
conditions. So it didnt think it was responsible for the three-month premium refund she 
wanted for B. Henderson also accepted that it hadnt provided a final response to Bs 
complaint, due to an administrative error. It offered £250 compensation for inconvenience.
One of our investigators considered Bs complaint. He noted that although the renewal for B 
was done at the last minute, that was because Henderson had only just taken B on as a 
client. He said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) doesnt require brokers to say 
whether an insurer is rated. He said Hendersons due diligence checks (done months before 
the bankruptcy) wouldnt have found any concerns about insurer A. He thought it acted 
reasonably in sourcing new insurance for B after insurer A ceased trading. He said B had the 
option of complaining to the new insurer about its pricing, but that the offer of compensation 
Henderson made for poor service was fair.
  
Mrs B said the offer was insulting. She said if Henderson had pointed out that insurer A had 
no rating, she wouldnt have accepted cover from it for B. So she thought it would be fair for 
B to recover its losses from Henderson.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A rating provided by a rating agency reflects the financial strength of an insurer. But theres 
no legal requirement for an insurer to be rated, and brokers arent obliged to deal only with 
rated insurers. Rated insurers can also become bankrupt, although the risk of that is higher 
with an unrated insurer. And theres no requirement on a broker to highlight that an insurer 
isnt rated - although some brokers choose to do that as a matter of best practice.
When Henderson carried out its usual checks before putting insurer A forward, it was more 
than nine months before it went into liquidation. At that point, no concerns about its liquidity 
would have been apparent and other brokers would also have been placing business with it. 
Henderson says insurer A returned the best quote for B from its marketing exercise. There 
was another option, as the previous broker had got a quote for B from a major UK insurer. 
Henderson offered to pick up that quote, which it says it could have done with Mrs Bs 
authorisation. She decided to buy the policy for B from insurer A, although I think the major 
UK insurer was bound to have greater financial strength.  
I can understand why Mrs B was alarmed to find that insurer A had ceased trading  and 
that a further large sum would have to be paid in order to cover Bs insurance needs for the 
next three months. Henderson appears to have acted quickly to find alternative cover and it 
also negotiated a good discount on the new policy. I think Hendersons actions were 
reasonable, but B still had to pay again for a period insurer A had been paid to cover. 
Henderson assisted Mrs B to contact the FSCS about Bs situation. The scheme covers 
many businesses in similar situations to the one faced by B, by providing refunds of 90% of 
the losses caused by an insurers liquidation. Unfortunately, it seems B isnt eligible for the 
scheme, due to the size of its annual turnover, so B is left with a shortfall.   
Henderson offered B £250 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. The sum falls far short of 
the one paid for Bs three months of extra insurance, and I can see why Mrs B is so unhappy 
about that loss. But as Henderson wasnt required to advise that insurer A wasnt rated (and 
it couldnt reasonably have predicted the bankruptcy) I dont think Mrs B has shown on Bs 
behalf that it did anything substantially wrong. That means I cant uphold Bs complaint.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or reject my decision before 
22 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman