DRN-4009539
The complaint
Mr G complains his pet insurance policy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited was useless, unclear and that he was provided with poor customer service.
What happened
Mr G had pet insurance with Red Sands from 2017 onwards for his cat, whom Ill call M. In 
2022 M sadly passed away. He was about 18 years old. Mr G made Red Sands aware and 
is disappointed his policy didnt respond in a meaningful way. He complains he paid for a 
useless, unclear policy and that he was provided with poor customer service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G hasnt made any specific arguments about what parts of the policy should have 
responded to Ms passing. Red Sands considered whether Ms passing could lead to a 
payment towards his cost. It found that it couldnt because of Ms age and cause of death. 
Red Sands considered cremation and burial costs, and concluded they werent covered. 
Red Sands reviewed the policy excess, which was £99 per claim, and the policy cap for 
euthanasia, which was £100. Having reviewed the policy documentation alongside the 
circumstances of Ms passing Im not persuaded Red Sands handled matters improperly.
Mr G considers he paid for a policy which was useless. While it may not have benefitted 
him following Ms passing, an insurance contract doesnt guarantee a benefit. Instead, it 
indemnifies the policy holder should certain things happen. Here, the policy provided wide 
ranging cover. Im not persuaded, based on the evidence and arguments presented to me, 
the policy was useless as Mr G claims. Mr G also says the benefits were unclear as he 
thought hed get £500 if M passed. I find the policy clear in this regard as it says, prominently 
in the schedule and the policy booklet, the factors which impact this type of benefit. 
Mr G is dissatisfied with the customer service he received. I find Red Sands dealt with 
his query following Ms passing satisfactorily. I find Red Sands agreed to refund a monthly 
premium, and then didnt do so. Red Sands let Mr G down here, but it did quite quickly 
apologise and provide the refund, which I consider a fair and reasonable resolution. 
Red Sands called Mr G to discuss his complaint, when he thinks he should have been 
emailed. I dont consider Red Sands calling Mr G unreasonable. In any case, complaint 
handling isnt an activity I have the power to make an award for.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman