DRN-3637482
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in September 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mr B says the installer misled him into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £369.75. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the total balance due is 
£6,895. This was to be payable over ten years. This document was signed by Mr B 
immediately below those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to 
bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr B could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £689.50 each year. That is nearly twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear.
The CMC has argued that this paperwork was not shown to Mr B until after the salesman 
had made his pitch verbally, and that by that time the contract was of minimal relevance to 
Mr B, who relied on what the salesman had told him. But I dont think its likely or plausible 
that Mr B simply took the salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy 
thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it 
costing him a penny, without at any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its 
more likely that Mr B has simply forgotten seeing the contract over the four and a half years 
between the sale and the bringing of his claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am 
satisfied that the contract did form a central part of the sales process when Mr B agreed to 
buy the panels.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr B about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was made perfectly clear that the panels would not be self-funding 
during the term of the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman