DRN-4340350
The complaint
Mr E is a sole trader. He complains that he lost access to his Barclays Bank UK Plc business 
bank account, and then had to spend hours on the phone sorting the problem out.
What happened
Mr E told us:
In July 2022, he was a longstanding customer of Barclays. Something then 
happened  he is still not sure what  which caused him to lose access to his 
business account for several days.
He was afraid his account had been hacked and that he had lost the £50,000 it 
contained. He suffered significant stress as a result.
He spent over six hours on the phone to Barclays trying to restore access to his 
account.
Barclays was unable to tell him what had happened, and could not reassure him that 
the problem would not recur. It also asked him to provide his personal details, despite 
the fact he had provide those details many times before and they had not changed.
Barclays told us:
There were two issues impacting Mr Es access to his business account. It needed to 
him to update the mandate on his account, and it also needed information from him 
to allow it to comply with its Know Your Customer (KYC) obligations.
It accepted that it did not explain itself properly to Mr E at first, and that he had to 
spend a lot of time on the phone trying to resolve matters. It offered to pay him £100 
to apologise for its poor customer service, but it said it would only continue to provide 
banking services to Mr E if he provided the information it requested. 
Since making this complaint, Mr E decided to switch his business account away from 
Barclays. His Barclays account is now closed.
One of investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He thought the £100 
Barclays had already offered represented fair and reasonable compensation for Barclays 
mistakes.
Mr E did not accept our investigators findings. He said Barclays has still not explained what 
happened to his account. He provided his details to Barclays many times, and was assured 
over the phone that KYC had been completed. He also said £100 in compensation was 
insufficient, particularly given his belief that he had lost £50,000 and that £500 would be a 
better starting point for negotiations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. I am 
sorry to further disappoint Mr E, but having listened to his call with Barclays complaint 
handler I am satisfied that the bank did eventually explain what had happened to his 
account.  
I do accept that Barclays could have provided that explanation more quickly. I think the bank 
was right to apologise for its poor service, and that it is fair for Mr E to receive compensation 
for the inconvenience the bank caused him. However, I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong in requiring Mr E to update the mandate for his account, or in requiring him to provide 
additional information for KYC purposes. 
Mr E had been a Barclays customer for a very long time, but Barclays was still required to 
ensure that the information it had about him and his account was up-to-date. Along with all 
other UK banks, Barclays is legally required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. 
I acknowledge that Barclays asked Mr E for some information that he had already provided, 
and I appreciate that he was inconvenienced by Barclays questions. But I think Barclays 
was entitled to ask the questions it did in the way that it did, and I dont think it would be fair 
for me to criticise the bank for the way it handled the mandate or KYC processes for Mr Es 
account.
Putting things right
We publish information about our approach to awards for distress and inconvenience on our 
website at https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-
distress-or-inconvenience .
We usually consider that an award of between £100 and £300 might be fair where there 
have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to 
sort out. These typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause 
either some distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
Having considered all the available evidence and applied my own judgement, I am satisfied 
that Barclays offer of £100 is fair in this case. I know Mr E feels strongly that it is not 
enough, but my award is only intended to compensate him for the impact of Barclays poor 
customer service and initial failure to explain what had happened to his account. My award is 
not intended to compensate him for the inconvenience he suffered in attempting to resolve 
the mandate or the KYC issues, because I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in asking 
him for information. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plcs offer to pay Mr E £100 represents a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 Laura Colman
Ombudsman