DRN-2966153
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with their 
home insurance claim for flood damage. The claim was handled by loss adjusters though for 
convenience, except where otherwise stated, Ill refer to Fairmead throughout.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs Cs home was flooded. They reported a claim to Fairmead. 
The house was uninhabitable so they moved out to temporary alternative accommodation 
(AA). Fairmead appointed contractors to carried out a site visit. Mr and Mrs C installed their 
own dehumidifiers.
Some 17 days into the claim the loss adjusters carried out another site visit and asked 
Mr and Mrs C to complete a VAR (value at risk) form in respect of the contents. They 
queried why they had to do this when the contents were wet mouldy and unhealthy. They 
had problems getting through to Fairmead and in trying to upload photos to its system. They 
had to arrange their AA and asked for reimbursement which was delayed both while 
Fairmead was still considering the claim, and then in the course of the claim. It was 
confirmed, 37 days into the claim that it was accepted. Contents were then removed, and a 
surveyors report drawn up. Contractors were still stripping out the tiling when the national 
lockdown was announced, and all work was put on hold.
Mr and Mrs C made a formal complaint to Fairmead which it responded to in its letter of 
13 May 2020. It agreed that there had been delays and failures of communication, and that 
this had led to Mr and Mrs C not receiving payments for their accommodation in good time. It 
paid them £100 compensation.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C had further problems when the claim restarted, but for 
reasons I shall explain below, I cant look at them in this decision.
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs C had been provided with a poor service because of 
the poor communications and delays, up until the final response letter of May 2020. For this 
he proposed that Fairmead pay a further £150 compensation. Fairmead agreed to this.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
In this decision I am only concerned with matters up until the date of Fairmeads final 
response letter of 13 May 2020. I do understand that Mr and Mrs C have had continuing 
problems with the claim, although it has now completed, as they have sold the property and 
accepted a cash settlement in lieu of repairs. However the rules we have to abide by say 
that we can only look at complaints about a business where it has had the opportunity to 
give its final response. Hopefully it may resolve the complaint. So far as Im aware Fairmead 
hasnt been given the opportunity to provide any response to complaints raised after 13 May 
2020, so I dont have any power to consider any such complaints.
As the start of the lockdown meant there was a natural break in the claim, I am able to 
assess any compensation up until May 2020 separately.
failure of communication
Mr and Mrs C have helpfully provided a detailed timeline. From that I can see that they 
attempted to communicate with the claims handler by email, phone and live chat. From the 
timeline I can see at least 10 occasions when this happened, and they couldnt get a 
response. I agree that, during this stressful time, this was poor service.
alternative accommodation (AA)
So far as I can see, Mr and Mrs C were left to arrange their own AA. I can understand this 
while the claim was still being approved, but after that, knowing the property was 
uninhabitable and would be for some time, I think Fairmead could have been more pro-
active. Mr and Mrs C were left to find various holiday lets, meaning they had to move around 
a fair bit. They also had to pay up front for the AA. I can see that on a number of occasions 
they had to chase Fairmead for payments, and this caused them anxiety. I understand that 
Fairmead accepts some fault here  there were delays in drawing up reports for approval 
which led to delays in payments being approved and sent to Mr and Mrs C.
completion of VAR form
Mr and Mrs C were asked to complete a VAR form. This is a standard procedure where it 
has to be established if the property/contents are fully insured. But I think Mr and Mrs C 
rightly questioned why this was done some 17 days into the claim, when they could have 
been asked to do it straight away. In particular Mrs C says it caused problems for her health 
having to look through damp and mouldy contents. I cant say whether it would have been 
any better for her to do this straight away but I do understand their concern, as the claim 
hadnt yet been accepted. 
Putting things right
Bearing in mind the time period concerned, and the anxiety and inconvenience caused by 
the claim itself. I think that an award of a further £150 on top of that already paid is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the difficulties Ive highlighted in this decision.
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman