DRN-2334864
The complaint
Mr L complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) turned down his 
critical illness claim. 
What happened
Mr L unfortunately became ill with respiratory failure and had to leave his job at the end of 
September 2015. Up until the time he left his job, Mr L had been part of his employers 
Health Crisis Cover  a group scheme that provided a lump sum payment if Mr L became ill 
with one of the medical conditions listed on the scheme. 
In April 2016, Mr Ls former employer switched the group policy from Health Crisis Cover to 
a group Critical Illness policy. Mr L was no longer a member of the scheme at that stage. 
Mr L became aware in 2020 that he could have made a claim under his employers group 
scheme when he first became ill in 2015, and so he submitted a claim in 2020. Mr L was 
originally sent a claim form in relation to the Critical Illness policy by L&G, but L&G then 
realised the policy in place at the time Mr L was working was the Health Crisis Cover. So 
Mr L submitted a claim under that policy. 
L&G considered the claim but turned it down. It said that although respiratory failure is an 
insured condition under the Critical Illness policy, it was not an insured condition under the 
Health Crisis Cover, which was the policy in place when Mr L was a member of the scheme. 
Mr L was unhappy and so complained to this service. He said that L&G had not forwarded 
him the full policy details. He said he was unhappy that the policy didnt cover him for a 
serious illness or inability to work.  
L&G responded to Mr Ls complaint after it was brought to this service. It said it initially sent 
Mr L the wrong claim forms to complete because the Health Crisis Cover was a legacy 
product that hadnt been offered to customers for many years. So it said it hadnt anticipated 
receiving such a late claim. L&G said it reviewed Mr Ls claim and the policy terms and 
conditions that were in force in 2015. It said Mr Ls condition was not covered by the policy. 
L&G directed Mr L to his former employers for more information about the policy. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said, looking at the policy in place at 
the time Mr L was employed, respiratory failure was not one of the conditions covered by the 
policy. Our investigator also sent Mr L a copy of the policy booklet. 
Mr L was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I can see that some confusion initially arose for Mr L over whether his condition might be 
covered under his former employers group policy. And this was because he was first of all 
incorrectly sent a claim form in relation to the Critical illness policy put in place in 2016, 
which was after he left his job. The Critical Illness policy claim form suggested that claims 
could be made for respiratory failure, although this would have been subject to severity of 
the condition and the remaining terms of the policy. So although I dont think Mr L would 
have had any expectation at that stage that his claim would be accepted, I can understand 
that it must have been frustrating for him to be told that an administrative error had been 
made and that his condition wasnt covered under the earlier scheme. 
But I dont intend to ask L&G to assess the claim under the new policy just because of an 
administrative error, because Mr Ls claim wouldnt ever have been assessed against the 
new policy. So, I dont think that would be fair. Instead, Ive checked to see whether Mr Ls 
condition is one thats covered under the Health Crisis Cover. 
I first of all looked at the policy terms in relation to when cover under his former employers 
group scheme ended for Mr L. And there are a number of ways cover for the Health Crisis 
Cover can end, but the relevant one here is immediately in the event of the Insured Person 
ceasing to be in Service . So Im satisfied Mr L stopped being covered by his employers 
scheme when he left his job in 2015. 
Ive then looked at whether theres enough evidence to show exactly what policy was in 
place in 2015. L&G was able to provide enough information from its systems for me to be 
satisfied it was the Health Crisis Cover that was in place when Mr L became ill while still 
working. And this means Mr L can only claim under that policy. He was no longer working for 
his employer when the Critical Illness policy was put in place in April 2016, so he isnt eligible 
to claim under that policy. 
Ive then looked at the list of medical conditions covered under the Health Crisis Cover and I 
can see that respiratory failure is not a listed condition. So Im satisfied L&G acted fairly 
when it turned down Mr Ls claim. I know that Mr L was left wondering how a policy such as 
this one doesnt provide him with cover, given the seriousness of his condition. But policies 
like these wont ever provide cover for all serious illnesses. The nature of these policies is 
that they provide cover only for the conditions that are listed in the policy terms. 
When he complained to this service Mr L also queried whether there was any disability cover 
under the policy. But, unfortunately, there isnt. The policy only covers the various illnesses 
listed. 
I know that Mr L said he would have considered taking out a different policy if he had known 
that his condition might not be covered. But the policy was offered to Mr L by his employer 
and not by L&G. And so its his employer and not L&G who would likely have been 
responsible for providing him with information about the cover. So I cant look into this point 
any further as my decision is just about L&Gs actions. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Martina RyanOmbudsman