DRN-2289899
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a claim he made
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A was abroad in January 2020 and was due to fly home. Unfortunately, his airline
cancelled his flight and told him it wouldnt be able to put him on an alternative flight for
about a month. Mr A was able to get a flight with an alternative airline a few days later, but
he had to stay in a hotel while he was waiting. So he made a claim on his travel insurance
policy for the costs hed incurred.
Admiral considered Mr As claim under the delayed international departure section of the
policy and turned it down. Thats because it said Mr As flight had been cancelled, rather
than delayed. It also said the policy specifically excluded claims which were down to supplier
failure.
Mr A was unhappy with Admirals decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy clearly
excluded claims which arose due to supplier failure. He also felt it was fair for Admiral to
consider the flight had been cancelled, not delayed. He suggested Mr A seek compensation
from the airline for his costs instead.
Mr A disagreed. He provided evidence from another specialist insurer which showed his
original airline hadnt been insolvent  it had suspended operations. That insurer had
directed Mr A back to Admiral. Mr A asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I didnt think Admiral had treated Mr A fairly. I said:
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims
unreasonably. So Ive considered the individual circumstances of the complaint and the
terms of Mr As policy in deciding whether I think Admiral has treated Mr A reasonably.
First, Ive looked at the policy terms under the Delayed International Departure section. This
section says:
We will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for every complete 12
hours that your trip is delayed, provided you have checked in and your pre-booked aircraft,
ship or train is delayed by more than 12 hours beyond the time shown on your travel
itinerary, as long as you eventually go on the trip.
Admiral says that as Mr As flight was cancelled rather than delayed and he didnt check-in,
his claim isnt covered by this section of the policy. I agree that on a strict interpretation of
the policy, Mr As circumstances arent covered. But I dont think a strict application of the
policy terms produces a fair result here. Mr A wasnt able to check-in given the cancellation
of his flight. But hes sent us a screenshot of an online chat between Mr A and one of the
airlines representatives in which he expressed his concern about the flight cancellation. Im
satisfied then that he intended to take the flight and wouldve checked in if he could.
And I dont think its fair or reasonable for Admiral to distinguish between the cancellation of
a flight or delay here. Thats because the effect and impact on Mr A was the same  he was
delayed from returning home due to circumstances beyond his control. Id add that it seems
the original airline couldve offered Mr A an alternative flight. Had he taken up that option,
hed have been delayed by a month. Instead, he took mitigating and reasonable action to
arrange an alternative flight around four weeks sooner than his original airline couldve
organised. Even then, he was still delayed abroad for a few days longer than hed planned.
This means Im currently persuaded the fair outcome would be for Admiral to deal with the
claim under the delay section of the policy.
Ive then gone on to think about the general exclusion clause Admiral has relied on to turn
down Mr As claim. This says:
Supplier failure
We will not pay any claim due to the actions or failure of any company providing or
organising your transport, to provide those services (whether caused by error, insolvency,
bankruptcy, liquidation, omission, default or other reason).
Ive looked closely at the situation with Mr As original airline at the time of the claim. Its
common ground that it suspended flights during January 2020 and in early February. But it
did resume flights for a short period during February 2020. So it seems to me that the airline
was still operational when Mr As flight was cancelled. The specialist insurer told Mr A in
April 2020 that the airline wasnt insolvent at that point  it had suspended operations. This
means I dont think Admiral can reasonably conclude that Mr As airline was insolvent,
bankrupt, in default or liquidation when it cancelled his flight.
And in my view other reason is simply so broad that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for
Admiral to rely on it to turn down this claim, when it seems the circumstances dont fit the
other criteria within the general exclusion clause.
So overall, I dont currently think it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to apply this
exclusion clause to turn down Mr As claim.
Presently, I think the fair outcome to this complaint is for Admiral to deal with Mr As claim
under the delayed international departure section of the policy. This provides a benefit of £25
per each 12-hour period of delay, up to a limit of £250. If Mr A had chosen to wait for his
original airline to return him home, he couldve claimed up to the policy limit. Given he took
action to minimise his losses and incurred costs in doing so, I think it would be fair for
Admiral to pay Mr As claim up to the policy limit. So I currently plan to direct Admiral to pay
Mr A the maximum delay benefit of £250 to settle his claim.
I appreciate Mr A would like his flight and accommodation costs refunded. However, these
simply arent covered by this section of the policy. So I dont plan to tell Admiral it needs to
indemnify Mr A for the flight and accommodation costs he incurred.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr A confirmed hed received my provisional decision.
Admiral didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said the airline had been struggling for 
some time towards the end of 2019  which was before Mr A had bought his policy. So it felt 
Mr A couldve anticipated there might be issues. It also maintained it was fair to rely on the exclusion cause for supplier failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think Admiral has treated Mr A fairly and Ill explain why.
Admiral now says that it was known that Mr As airline was struggling before he took out the 
policy. So it thinks Mr A couldve anticipated there might be issues. Ive thought about this. It 
seems Mr As airline had been going through a restructure in November 2019. But all flights 
were due to resume a few days before Mr A was due to fly and indeed, Mr As original 
outbound flight did depart as planned. It also isnt clear how widely the issues with the airline 
had been publicised in the media. So I dont think its more likely than not that Mr A was 
aware that the airline might face further issues or cease operations when he took out the 
policy.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think it was fair for Admiral to rely on the 
supplier failure exclusion clause. Thats because Mr As airline wasnt insolvent or bankrupt 
when it cancelled Mr As flight  it had simply suspended operations. So I dont think the 
circumstances fall into the scope of the defined events in the exclusion. And I still think any 
other reason within the exclusion is so broad that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on it when the circumstances dont fall within the other listed events in the 
exclusion clause.
Overall, Im still satisfied that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Admiral to deal with Mr 
As claim under the delayed departure section of the policy, up to the policy limit of £250.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr As complaint.
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr A £250 under the delayed
international departure section of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman