DRN-3274905
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded adverse information on his credit file 
after taking a payment holiday on his mortgage.
 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr L applied for a payment holiday on his mortgage with Barclays. The 
payment holiday wasnt correctly set up and this resulted in Mr Ls contractual monthly 
payment being claimed in June 2020. 
Mr L was advised to raise a direct debit indemnity  which he did  and the funds were 
returned to him. However, as the payment holiday hadnt been applied correctly his 
mortgage was reported as being in arrears on his credit file. 
Mr L says because of the arrears being reported, his credit score decreased. He says this 
resulted in him being declined credit for a new car and the credit limit on a personal credit 
card being reduced. Mr L says this occurred at a time where his wife was expecting and they 
were under time constraints to order a new car, so it caused significant stress. 
Barclays investigated the complaint and found that it had made errors with Mr Ls application 
for a payment holiday. It arranged for Mr Ls credit file to be amended and the adverse data 
removed. It also paid Mr L £814.99 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, which included the £14.99 Mr L had needed to pay when acquiring his full credit 
report  which it outlined in its final response letter to Mr L.
Unhappy, Mr L raised a complaint with our service. He didnt think the compensation fairly 
reflected the severity of the issues caused by Barclays. He says because Barclays recorded 
adverse information on his credit file, it has meant he was unable to secure the car finance 
deal he wanted  costing him more overall.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and felt the offer of compensation was fair. They 
agreed Barclays had made an error when applying the payment holiday and this would have 
caused distress and inconvenience. However, they didnt think the difference in the cost of 
car finance should be covered by Barclays, as the application had been declined for a 
second time after the credit file had been amended. The Investigator had initially calculated 
the compensation paid to Mr L as £1614.99 but later clarified with him that it was £814.99  
and this was the offer they felt was fair. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He says there is clear evidence 
the application for car finance was declined because of the adverse information Barclays 
recorded on his credit file. He explained at the time of the second application the credit file 
hadnt been amended, but he had tried to approach the car finance company after it had 
been. However, due to time constraints they were forced to go with an alternative more 
expensive deal.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays doesnt dispute it made errors when processing Mr Ls application for a payment 
holiday  and that it incorrectly recorded adverse information on his credit file. To resolve 
this Barclays has amended Mr Ls credit file and paid him compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused, which is something I would expect it to do. 
Mr L remains unhappy because he doesnt think the compensation Barclays has paid fairly 
represents the severity of the errors it made, or that he has been forced to take out a more 
expensive car finance deal because of the errors. Therefore, what I need to decide is 
whether Barclays offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive been provided with two quotation documents from Mr L to evidence the difference in 
price between the two car finance deals. Hes also provided emails from his broker and the 
underwriters which explain his application for car finance was declined because of 
information held at credit reference agencies and because of a poor credit rating on his 
credit file. He also provided copies of his credit file which demonstrate the impact Barclays 
error had on his credit rating.
Barclays incorrectly reporting adverse information to Mr Ls credit file is likely to have had an 
impact on any application Mr L made for car finance at that time  and the evidence Mr L 
has provided seems to support this. However, I dont think this means Barclays should be 
liable for the increase Mr L is now paying on his car finance agreement. Ill explain why.
Mr L has explained his application was initially declined and then his broker appealed the 
decision but unfortunately it was declined again. In his conversations and emails with our 
investigator, Mr L has said that the appeal was declined despite information on his credit file 
being updated by Barclays. However, in later correspondence Mr L has also said that the 
credit file hadnt been cleansed before the appeal was declined. He later clarified that he did 
go back to the initial car finance provider after the credit file had been cleansed. But due to 
the time constraints of when they needed the car  in time for the birth of his child  and the 
length of the appeals process, he decided to proceed with the second best (more expensive) 
car finance option. 
Mr Ls credit file was amended by Barclays on 22 September 2020 which is supported by the 
copy Mr L has sent us of his credit file dated 23 September 2020. Mr L has said he 
reapproached the initial car finance provider following the amendments to his credit file, and 
Ive seen copies of emails between Mr L and his broker from the time leading up to when he 
provided the broker with an updated credit file on 23 September 2020 which support this. 
The quotation for Mr Ls second more expensive car finance deal was produced on 
4 November 2020  approximately six weeks after the amendments to his credit file. Whilst, I 
understand that Mr L made the decision to proceed with the more expensive car finance 
deal, I dont think I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for this. Mr L would have made this 
decision no fewer than six weeks after Barclays had amended his credit file  and any 
delays following this with the initial car finance provider are not the responsibility of Barclays. 
I would expect Barclays to compensate Mr L for the errors its made recording the adverse 
information to his credit file  and for the distress and inconvenience this caused. However, I 
also think it should be noted that many businesses had to change the way they operate over 
night because of the Covid-19 pandemic and had to deal with an increased demand from 
their customers with regards to the impact the pandemic was having on their financial circumstances. This understandably meant that many businesses experienced delays when 
answering customer requests  something which I dont think is unreasonable in the 
circumstances.   
Mr L first raised his complaint with Barclays on 24 August 2020 and the adverse information 
was removed from his credit file on 22 September 2020. Taking into consideration the length 
of time the adverse information had been recorded, since June 2020, and what Mr L has 
said about the stress and worry this caused Mr L and his wife, I think £814.99 (which 
includes the cost for the full credit report) Barclays has paid for the distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
With regards to the reduction in Mr Ls credit limit on one of his personal credit cards. Credit 
providers will review credit limits from time to time which may result in an increase or 
decrease to the approved credit limit. There are a number of factors other than someones 
credit score which can impact a credit limit  such as a providers lending policy, the 
customers other credit commitments and other credit limits elsewhere.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the decrease in Mr L credit limit on his credit card was 
solely down to the errors Barclays made by recording adverse information on his credit file. If 
Mr L remains unhappy that his credit limit has been reduced, this is something he should 
raise with his provider.
   
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman