DRN-3746741
The complaint
Mr I complains that Pay Later Financial Services Limited have tried to recover a refund they 
overpaid to him by reopening his loan account, which he doesnt think they can do. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr I purchased flights with a travel company and took out a £1925.07 
loan with Pay Later to pay for them. There was a transaction fee of £327.26, making the total 
loan £2252.33
By May 2021, Mr I had made instalment payments totalling £1129.36. Unfortunately, the 
flights were cancelled due to Covid-19 and Mr I was due a refund. He was told he would 
receive a full refund including the transaction fee, minus £80 that had been charged by the 
travel company. 
The travel provider delayed in making the refund to Pay Now, and when they did receive it in 
August 2021, they erroneously refunded Mr I twice, once for £1845.07 on 20 August 2021 
and then for £1049.36 on 28 August 2021. The refunds were made to Mr Is bank account.  
In September 2021 Pay Later wrote to Mr I, advising him of their mistake and asking for the 
return of £1845.07. 
Mr I responded that he was unable to pay it all in one payment, and asked for instalment 
payments. He was also unhappy that Pay Later had reopened the credit agreement to 
recover the money, saying that they had no right to reopen the agreement after it had been 
paid off and closed. 
Pay Later took payments from Mr Is card in October, December, January and February.
Pay Later issued a final response in December 2021 advising that Mr I owed them £1845.07 
which had been overpaid and they were entitled to recover it. They did, however, offer a 
reduced repayment scheme. 
Mr I is unhappy that he waited a long time to receive his repayment, and that when he was 
double refunded, Pay Later tried to recover it by re opening the loan account. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Is complaint. He thought that Pay Later were entitled 
to recover the funds, and that by doing so through the credit agreement rather than using 
court processes, it was less likely to affect Mr Is credit rating. He thought they were acting 
fairly. 
Mr I didnt agree, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
The delay in the refund
I appreciate that Mr I was waiting a long time for the refund to come through, but I am 
satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that it wasnt Pay Laters fault. The delay in the refund 
was caused by the travel company not sending the refund to Pay Later until August, and I 
wouldnt expect Pay Later to refund Mr I until they had received it. 
Recovery of the overpaid refund
In relation to the overpayment, I can appreciate that if Mr I hadnt noticed the credit going 
into his account, it would have been a surprise to him to receive the letter asking for the 
overpayment to be returned. I also understand that he may have erroneously used that 
refund before Pay Later asked for it back, and so he may not have been able to pay it all in 
one payment. 
However, Pay Later do have the legal right to request the return of the overpaid funds, and 
so I cant say that Mr I shouldnt have to pay it back. 
So, Ive then thought about whether Pay Later have acted fairly and reasonably in the way 
they have attempted to recover it from Mr I.
I agree with Mr I that Pay Later have had the loan repaid in full, and that strictly speaking, I 
dont think they shouldnt be using the loan agreement to recover the overpayment. 
However, this doesnt stop them from recovering the overpayment from Mr I, and if they 
dont use the loan account to recover it, they are likely to pursue civil legal action, and there 
is also the possibility of them referring it for criminal proceedings, which would both result in 
higher costs for Mr I. 
And so on balance, I agree with the investigator. Im satisfied that Pay Later acted 
reasonably in the way they asked for the funds back, and whilst I understand why Mr I is 
unhappy that they have reopened the loan account, I think this is a reasonable way of them 
keeping track of any instalment arrangement that is made for the repayment when the 
alternative would be court proceedings for recovery.
Mr I tells me that Pay Later have had an income and expenditure form from him, and that he 
is willing to make payments of around £70 per month, and I think it is now Pay Laters 
responsibility to appoint someone to speak to Mr I and discuss an affordable repayment 
plan.    
  
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Is complaint about Pay Later Financial Services Ltd and I wont be 
asking them to do anything further. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman