DRN-2348327
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim for an escape of water under her 
home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mrs W noticed some water stains on her dining room ceiling. Mrs W informed QIC of this, but 
didnt make a claim at that time, as she wasnt sure of the extent of the damage. Mrs W also 
turned off the water supply and arranged for a plumber to repair a leak to the toilet cistern.
The stain spread further and the upstairs ring main stopped working, so Mrs W arranged for 
a builder and an electrician to investigate. The builder found damage to a beam and the 
upstairs floorboards and the electrical wiring was also damp.
Mrs W contacted QIC to make a claim under her policy. QIC sent a surveyor to assess the 
damage. Following a review of the surveyors findings, QIC declined the claim. 
When Mrs W complained to QIC, it reviewed the claim and accepted it. QIC offered Mrs W a 
cash settlement, based on its assessment of the costs. However, it then instructed a 
contractor to complete the works, due to the difference between QICs assessment of the 
cost and a quote that Mrs W had obtained for the works. However, QIC then said its 
contractor couldnt carry out the works because they couldnt offer a guarantee.
Mrs W submitted a further complaint about the handling of the claim, QIC reviewed the claim 
again and said that it shouldnt have accepted it and had made a mistake in overturning its 
original decision. QIC said the damage had taken place over time and that this would have 
been noticeable to Mrs W, so wasnt covered by the policy. It said that, despite it declining 
the claim, as it had already offered a cash settlement of £1419.23, it was still willing to pay 
this to Mrs W. It also offered Mrs W £200 compensation.
Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that it 
was more likely than not that the staining had only become apparent to Mrs W around the 
time that she first contacted QIC. As a result, he said that QIC should settle the claim.
As QIC did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
QIC declined the claim because it said that the photos of the damage provided by Mrs W 
showed heavy water staining and mould growth and had been a gradually operating cause 
over time. It also said that the timber joists, noggins and the underside of the floorboards to 
the above rooms were rotten.
Ive read the policy wording. The policy provides covers for damage caused by water leaks. 
But it excludes cover for damage that occurs gradually. This is not uncommon. However, 
sometimes when damage occurs gradually it happens in such a way that the policyholder 
doesnt know it is occurring, sometimes for quite some while. When this happens this service 
often finds it unfair for an insurer to rely on any exclusion for gradual damage in order to 
defeat its liability for any loss.
In this instance, it isnt in dispute that the water leak and resulting damage was likely to have 
been ongoing for some time. However, Mrs W has said that the first time she was aware of it 
was around the time she first contacted QIC. QIC, based on the photos that Mrs W provided, 
thinks that the damage to the ceiling would have been visible for some time.
Our investigator asked Mrs W when she took the photos of the ceiling. Mrs W said that this 
was immediately before the ceiling was removed by the builder. So, this was about six 
weeks after Mrs W first reported the damage. The issue is whether that level of staining and 
mould could have formed in that period of time. In my view, it could.
Mrs W contacted some mould experts, who told her that mould can form very quickly in the 
right conditions. Im aware that the experts werent providing an assessment of Mrs Ws 
circumstances in particular, so this was general advice. However, Im also aware that QIC 
has said it accepts that mould can sometimes form quickly, which I agree with.
In terms of the staining to the ceiling, Ive looked at Mrs Ws photos and can see that the 
staining is widespread. I think it is likely that staining can appear suddenly and will appear 
when a ceiling is in contact with moisture, which was the case here. Im also aware that an 
electrician who Mrs W contacted to deal with some of the issues caused by the leak said that 
when he first saw the ceiling there was only light staining and that it gradually got worse over 
the six weeks. I have no reason to doubt this. I havent seen any evidence that Mrs W was 
aware of any damage until around the time she first contacted QIC about a possible claim or 
that she could reasonably have been expected to be aware of the leak before that time.
On that basis, I dont think it was fair for QIC to decline the claim on the basis of the damage 
happening gradually as, in my view, Mrs W was unlikely to have been aware of this. 
  
Putting things right
As a result, QIC should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
QIC Europe Limited to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman