DRN-3414700
The complaint
Mr T complains that his request, to reduce the risk to his pension portfolio prior to taking a 
tax-free lump sum, was not carried out promptly by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc (St. Jamess). He complains that he received a poor service. 
Mr T also complains that the funds in his Retirement Account were incorrectly switched to a 
money market fund when he had asked for them to be switched to cash. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr T discussed withdrawing a tax- free lump sum from his Retirement 
Account in May 2020, with his adviser. 
Mr T spoke to his adviser again in January 2020. 
On 16 March 2020 Mr T contacted St. Jamess by telephone and asked for a return call. 
St. Jamess contacted him shortly after and Mr T asked for all the funds in his Retirement 
Account to be switched.  A switch took place on 18 March 2020 with his funds being 
switched to a Money Market fund.
Mr T later received a letter indicating his fund switch had taken place. 
Mr Ts adviser contacted him on 24 March 2020 to discuss his financial circumstances and 
the withdrawal of the tax-free lump sum. 
Mr T received a letter entitled Investment Review at the end of March. 
In April 2020 Mr T complained to St. Jamess. He said he gave instructions to reduce the risk 
of his pension portfolio when he spoke to his adviser in January 2020 and those instructions 
werent carried out. Mr T also said he telephoned St Jamess in March 2020 to request a 
fund switch but there was a delay in processing that switch.
On 23 April 2020 Mr T confirmed to St. Jamess that he had received the necessary 
paperwork to withdraw the tax-free cash, but he had decided not to proceed for the time 
being.   
St. Jamess didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said Mr T had spoken to its adviser in 
November 2019 about how to draw tax-free cash in May 2020 and had asked what costs 
were involved. 
It said the adviser then spoke to Mr T in January 2020 and he confirmed he still wanted to go 
ahead. The adviser agreed to contact him in March 2020 to start that process.
St. Jamess said the adviser had no recollection of a conversation about switching Mr Ts 
funds into a cash fund in November, or in January. It said as Mr Ts intention was to take tax-
free cash and leave the rest of the funds invested for the longer term, that wasnt something 
the adviser wouldve recommended. 
St. Jamess said Mr T had called on 16 March 2020 and his call had been returned within 24 
hours, which it felt was a reasonable timescale. It noted Mr T asked to switch his funds into a 
cash fund, which for a Retirement Account, would be its Money Market Fund. 
St. Jamess said the fund switch occurred on the next valuation day after instruction and the 
switch was processed on 18 March 2020. It apologized for the delay in sending the letter 
which detailed the switch to Mr T but said that didnt affect the value because the switch had 
taken place shortly after it was requested.  
St. Jamess said the adviser then contacted Mr T later in March to discuss drawing the tax-
free cash as previously discussed. It didnt agree that the adviser had agreed to make 
changes to Mr Ts portfolio following their discussions in January 2020. St. Jamess also said 
it didnt think the adviser wouldve suggested reducing the risk on Mr Ts entire portfolio, 
given his objective of taking the tax-free cash in May 2020 and leaving the remaining funds 
invested.  
Mr T disagreed and referred his complaint to our service.  
He said he had a conversation with the adviser in January 2020 and said that he required 
tax-free cash and that it would be appropriate to move to a cash fund to facilitate this. Mr T 
pointed out that St Jamess had then later said in its correspondence that it had advised him 
to move to the Money Market Fund which he said was contradictory. 
Mr T said that no annual review had taken place and so his ongoing advice fee should be 
refunded for the previous 12 months. 
Mr T said St. Jamess should carry out a comparison between the performance of his former 
pension funds and the Money Market Fund since January 2020.   
Our investigator considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.
He said Mr T wanted to take tax-free cash from his pension in May 2020 (when he reached 
55) and that he considered this had been discussed with his adviser in November 2019 and 
January 2020. He thought it was agreed that the adviser would contact Mr T in March 2020
to finalise the withdrawal. 
The investigator noted the parties had different recollections of what was said and that there 
were no phone call recordings available. However, he felt it was clear that when Mr T called 
St. Jamess in March 2020, he gave an instruction to transfer his Retirement Account 
portfolio to cash and as far as St. Jamess was concerned, that meant transferring to its 
Money Market fund. He noted that St. Jamess didnt have a cash fund. 
The investigator said it was reasonable to conclude that St. Jamess hadnt transferred the 
portfolio to that fund previously, because Mr T had accepted its advice that it would be better 
to leave the portfolio invested until March 2020.  So, he didnt think St. Jamess had failed to 
implement Mr Ts instructions or that there had been an unreasonable delay in carrying out 
the instruction given in March 2020. 
The investigator also felt that an annual review had taken place so he didnt think the fees for 
that year should be refunded. He was satisfied that Mr Ts adviser had intended to carry out 
an annual review in March 2020, but he had been on annual leave when Mr T contacted St. 
Jamess. He noted that after Mr Ts funds had been switched on 18 March 2020, the adviser 
had spoken to Mr T (on 24 March) and asked him for further information about his 
expenditure as part of an updated fact find. He noted information had been provided by Mr T 
and there had been a further discussion about the repayment of liabilities. The review letter 
had then been posted on 30 March, so the investigator felt a review had taken place. 
However, he noted it was unfortunate that the review document had been dated 18 March 
2020. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He reiterated that he had raised the issue of taking a tax-free lump sum in both December 
2019 and January 2020 and queried whether he needed to move to a cash fund to 
preserve the tax-free cash requirement. 
Mr T said he was advised that this would not be the right move to make. But subsequently, 
as confirmed in the review letter, he was then advised to move into the Money Market 
Fund. He said those two pieces of advice were at odds with one another and said it 
couldnt be the case that both pieces of advice were correct. 
Mr T said if St Jamess believed that the correct advice was not to move into the Money 
Market fund then he would expect compensation which equalled the performance of his 
original investments since the switch to that fund. But if the switch to the Money Market fund 
was the correct advice then he would expect the performance of this and his original 
investment to be compared, from the date he first asked for this specific advice, in December 
2019 and the difference to be paid in compensation.
Mr T also pointed out that St. Jamess hadnt provided any call recordings and noted it was 
a MiFiD II requirement that telephone calls of a transactional nature are recorded, if not by 
direct voice recording then by a note of the conversation. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ts complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr T was looking to take some tax-free cash from his Retirement 
Account in May 2020, and that he contacted his adviser to discuss this in November 2019.  
The issue here  is whether or not he gave clear instructions to St. Jamess for the risk level 
of the funds in his Retirement Account to be reduced, namely for all the funds in the account 
to be switched to a cash fund, in January 2020. Alternatively, I need to consider whether St 
Jamess ought to have recommended this course of action, even if it hadnt been specifically 
requested by Mr T. And then, in addition, Ill consider whether Mr Ts instruction in March 
2020 to switch his funds to the cash fund was carried out correctly, given the funds were 
switched to a Money Market Fund.  
Instructions to lower the risk of his portfolio
As Ive noted above, Mr T contacted his adviser in November 2019 to discuss taking tax-free 
cash in May 2020 and leaving the funds in drawdown. He asked about the costs that would 
be involved and there was a discussion about the annual management charges and ongoing 
advice charge. 
The next direct contact recorded on the contact record is when Mr T contacted St. Jamess 
on 16 March 2020. However, it is agreed by both parties there was some contact between 
Mr T and his adviser in January 2020. Mr T says it was then that he asked for his portfolio to 
be switched to cash. But St. Jamess says that discussion was only a confirmation that Mr T 
wanted to go ahead with withdrawing his tax-free lump sum later on in that year.The adviser who spoke to Mr T on, it appears, 16 and 17 March 2020, said that Mr T asked 
him to switch his funds to a Money Market Fund. Mr T says he had never heard of the fund 
and asked for a switch to a cash fund. 
Mr T points out that the review letter sent to him by St. Jamess which discussed the switch 
of his funds didnt arrive until the end of March, although it was dated 18 March. He 
disagrees with the contents of that document, as he says it wasnt a recommendation from 
the adviser but his own decision to request a switch to his funds, in order to lower the risk on 
his pension portfolio. 
My view on this is that Mr T did make the decision to switch his funds himself, rather than it 
being a recommendation made to him. I think the review document more likely than not 
contained a summary of what was discussed and an endorsement of Mr Ts ability to make 
his own decision regarding the funds in his Retirement Account based on his concerns at the 
time, rather than a recommendation. And I think this is supported by what is detailed in the 
document. 
Mr T was previously invested in a medium risk portfolio and the proposed switch would place 
his Retirement Account in a low risk fund.  It was recorded that there was some discussion 
about Mr Ts risk profile and his current investments, and it was noted that:
We also specifically discussed your concerns around Covid-19 and the effect this is having 
on the markets at present and your decision to take your tax-free cash lump sum when you 
turn 55 in May 2020.
And
Based on this discussion we agreed that your Attitude to Risk has not changed however, 
you feel that given your decision to take your tax-free cash in May 2020, you wish to 
preserve your funds so as you can take the maximum amount of tax-free cash available and 
potentially reduce the risk of further decline in fund value. 
And
The choice of fund is not consistent with your attitude to risk because it is risk rated low and 
this is below your current attitude to risk. You are aware of this and still wish to invest in the 
Money Market fund as whilst you have been invested in the Managed Funds Portfolio you 
have seen consistent growth and now you have seen the market fall you cannot afford to 
maintain the same risk strategy as you have planned spending in place for your sons 
wedding, holidays and a new car, you feel now is the right time to preserve your capital.
It seems, from what is recorded in respect of their discussion, that Mr T had specific plans 
for the tax-free lump sum he wished to withdraw and he was concerned to preserve the 
value of his Retirement Account, which was why he wanted to switch all of the account to a 
low risk fund or as Mr T has said, to a cash fund.
Mr T has said that his attitude to risk had changed but I think it was more of a short-term 
adjustment in reaction to particular events, rather than a complete change in his attitude to 
risk prior to the effects on financial markets due to the pandemic.   
I dont consider that taking a tax-free lump from a pension, of itself, would normally 
necessitate switching the whole fund to cash in advance, or to one low risk fund such as the 
Money Market Fund. The tax-free lump sum is only a proportion of the pension and if it is 
being taken at an early age, several years prior to retirement, as was intended in this case, then it would make sense for the rest of the account to remain invested in different funds, at 
a slightly higher risk, and with the intention of making a return until it was required. 
The risk of switching all the funds to cash, or to a low risk fund, would be low investment 
growth if interest rates were low, a lack of diversification and the risk of the real value of the 
fund being reduced as a result of the impact of inflation.  And I think those risks were broadly 
outlined in the review document. 
So, I can see why St. Jamess has said that its adviser wouldnt have recommended that   
Mr T switch all his funds to the Money Market Fund in January 2020, in advance of taking his 
tax-free lump sum in May 2020. And nor do I think they necessarily would have needed to. I 
also note that around 16 % of Mr Ts Retirement Account was invested in lower medium risk 
funds and the remaining medium risk funds wouldve had a proportion of their assets 
invested in cash. So, as the investigator has said, there was already a certain degree of 
moderation of risk in respect of the proportion that would be taken as tax-free cash.  
The additional factor here was that Mr T was concerned about the movement in the markets 
and the value of his Retirement Account being adversely impacted as a result. While I think 
that concern was clearly expressed in March 2020, Im not persuaded on balance that it 
means there was a specific instruction from Mr T to switch all his funds in January 2020. As 
Ive said above, I think that reaction was understandably related to the effects of the 
pandemic on financial markets.
Mr T may well feel that is what the adviser should have recommended to him but as his 
Retirement Account still had some time to run, until his intended retirement age of 67 years, I 
wouldnt consider the adviser had acted unreasonably by not making that recommendation. 
Particularly as investments such as pensions are generally envisaged to be long-term and 
taking into account the risk of placing all your funds in one place, where low interest rates 
are likely to result in low returns.      
I think there may well have been some discussion about the way Mr Ts investments were 
performing prior to March but St. Jamess wouldve needed a clear instruction from Mr T in 
order to switch all of his funds to one low risk fund. I note that Mr T has said that he was told 
moving everything to cash was not the right move to make, which would suggest when he 
raised the issue that he was advised against it and accepted that advice.  But in January 
2020, I dont in any case think that this would have been unsuitable advice.  
I also think if Mr T had given a clear instruction to St. Jamess in January 2020 then I would 
have expected there to have been some sort of written confirmation from St. Jamess of that 
request, and then some additional confirmation that it had been processed and completed. I 
note no switch request was logged by St. Jamess at that time.  
As no such confirmation was sent to Mr T in January 2020, if Mr T had given that instruction, 
I would also have expected Mr T to have chased this prior to 16 March.  I think the timing of 
the contact in March 2020 was significant because it was about a week before the first 
lockdown in the UK when Coronavirus was very much in the news and the markets were 
being adversely affected. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded on balance that Mr T gave a clear instruction to switch the 
funds in his Retirement Account to cash, or one low risk fund, prior to 16 March 2020. Nor 
am I persuaded, given the objectives as they were known then, that the adviser should have 
recommended in January 2020 that he do so.  
Instruction to switch to cash as opposed to the Money Market Fund
 Mr T says in March 2020 he asked for his funds to be switched to cash and not to a Money 
Market Fund. However, St. Jamess says its adviser recorded that the instruction given by 
Mr T was to switch to the Money Market Fund and, in any event, it doesnt have a pure cash 
fund, so it wouldnt have been able to fulfil such a request.
I acknowledge what Mr T has said about the lack of call recordings, but even if theres been 
a failing under regulatory requirements, this doesnt mean that a complaint would or should 
be upheld if other aspects of the case might fairly and reasonably indicate that it shouldnt be 
upheld. In this instance, given the weight of other available evidence, I dont think the 
potential omission of phone records should mean that the complaint should be upheld. 
Although, if Mr T considers that there have been regulatory failings, he may refer these to 
the financial Conduct Authority.
And in any case, I am satisfied that there is some documentary evidence containing a note 
of the calls, for example the contact record.  
I think it is more likely than not that Mr T asked for his funds to be switched to a cash fund 
because he has said he hadnt heard of the Money Market Fund. But I think the adviser took 
this to mean the Money Market Fund, as the closest thing to a pure cash fund and its lowest 
risk fund. I also think it likely on balance that the adviser explained this was the equivalent 
for the purposes of the Retirement Account to Mr T at the time. 
I have carefully considered the document entitled The guide to understanding the difference 
between balance and reward including the St. Jamess Place Portfolios and funds.   I can 
see that document was referred to in the suitability letter provided to Mr T prior to him taking 
out the Retirement Account. So, I think it is likely on balance that it was also provided to Mr T 
at the time.  
I can see from that document that the range of funds offered by St. Jamess includes a 
Money Market Fund (sterling) which is the shown as the lowest risk fund and I can also see 
that no cash fund is available. Although the different portfolios offered by St. Jamess are 
made up of different assets and do include a small proportion of cash, that is different to 
offering a pure cash fund.  
So, I dont consider therefore that a cash fund was available or that the information provided 
by St. Jamess to Mr T, in respect of its range of funds, was unclear or misleading.
I also dont think this was a case of the adviser mistakenly selecting the wrong fund because 
there simply wasnt a pure cash fund available to select. 
On the basis that St. Jamess didnt have a pure cash fund, which was set out clearly in its 
product information, and the Money Market Fund was what it classed as a cash fund for 
the purposes of the Retirement Account, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to switch    
Mr Ts funds to that fund, specifically in order to fulfil his request to lower the risk to his 
portfolio. And this also addresses Mr Ts concern about why a move to the Money Market 
Fund occurred in March 2020, yet hadnt happened in January 2020. It was implemented in 
March 2020 in response to the concerns raised by Mr T about the moves in financial markets 
 as indicated by the review document.  
And, I think it likely on balance that there would have been some reference by the adviser to 
that fund at the time, as it is referred to on the business contact record.     
Overall, I dont consider that St. Jamess carried out Mr Ts request incorrectly and I think it 
acted reasonably promptly with the initial call taking place on 16 March and the switch being 
processed on 18 March 2020. Ongoing advice and annual review 
Mr T says he should be refunded the annual ongoing advice fee for that preceding year as 
he says an annual review didnt take place. 
St. Jamess has said it was envisaged that the annual review would take place in March 
2020. However, in the interim Mr T contacted St. Jamess with an urgent switch request 
which was dealt with by another adviser, because Mr Ts adviser was on leave. 
As the investigator has set out in his view there was then a telephone call between Mr T and 
the original adviser on 24 March 2020, with further information then being provided by Mr T 
about his expenditure by way of an updated fact find and further discussion following that. 
The original adviser was then intending to put in place the arrangements for the withdrawal 
in May. 
So, I am satisfied there were reasonable attempts by the adviser to carry out the review, by 
seeking information and having a discussion with Mr T. I agree with the investigator that it 
was unfortunate that a review document was issued dated 18 March 2020, which gave the 
impression that a full review had taken place on that day. Whereas the majority of that 
document was really a summary of what had taken place when Mr T had requested the 
switch in March. 
However, although the contact between Mr T and the adviser wasnt carried out in one 
formal review, overall, I am satisfied on balance that a review took place.     
Unfortunately, it appears from what is described in the final response letter from St, Jamess 
that there was then a break down in the relationship between Mr T and his adviser. The 
adviser appears to have asked Mr T to contact him to discuss his decision not to take the 
tax-fee lump sum and his ongoing fund selection. But that discussion hadnt taken place by 
the beginning of June 2020, when St. Jamess response to Mr Ts complaint was issued. 
However, I can also see that in its response letter St. Jamess offered to transfer Mr T to 
another adviser if he so wished, so I am satisfied it made efforts to facilitate further advice 
and discussion. 
Overall, Im not persuaded on balance that it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for the annual costs for the year to be refunded, as I am satisfied a review did 
take place. 
My final decision
My decision is that Mr Ts complaint against St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc is 
not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman