DRN-3162293
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint. The CMC say that Mr and Mrs B were provided with unsuitable advice by 
Handelsbanken Wealth & Asset Management Limited (Handelsbanken) and have suffered a 
financial loss. 
The CMC say that Mr and Mrs B were not told that Coronavirus would impact the market.
What happened
On 22 November 2019, Mr and Mrs B met with Handelsbanken to discuss their financial 
arrangements as they had available cash to invest.
Handelsbanken took Mr and Mrs B through a fact find exercise to discuss their personal and 
financial arrangements. A Recommendations Report was prepared for Mr and Mrs B on 21 
January 2020.
On the 22 January 2020, Mr and Mrs B met again with Handelsbanken to discuss the report 
and a summary of this meeting was sent the next day. Mr and Mrs B went ahead with the 
recommendations and invested £110,000 into a multi asset fund and £20,000 each into an 
ISA making a total of £150,000 invested.
In early March 2020, Mr B complained to Handelsbanken about the loss of capital on the 
accounts that had just opened. Mr B felt that although no one could have foreseen the 
Pandemic, he said he could not afford to lose capital at that rate and in the current climate, 
couldnt see the losses being recouped.
Mr and Mrs B gave instructions to close their account and the proceeds were paid to the 
bank account on 30 March 2020.
The CMC complained to Handelsbanken on 4 August 2020 with six main complaint points 
relating to the sales process and the suitability of the advice provided.
Handelsbanken investigated the complaint and responded on 25 September 2020. 
Handelsbanken didnt think that they had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with Handelsbankens final decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service 
and one of our investigators reviewed the complaint.
The investigator thought that Handelsbanken had acted unfairly and thought the complaint 
should succeed. The investigator thought that the make-up of the fund that Mr and Mrs B 
had invested in carried too much risk. The investigator also thought that as Mr and Mrs B 
didnt have much investment experience, they didnt understand the level of risk that they 
were exposed to.
The investigator upheld the complaint and suggested how the portfolio should be put back 
into the position it should have been had Mr and Mrs B been provided with different advice.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Handelsbanken have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 11 October 2021.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I was not upholding the complaint. I asked both parties 
to send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 8 November 2021. 
Handelsbanken replied saying they did not have any further comments. The CMC did not 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should not 
succeed. Ill set out a summary of my conclusions below.
There are 6 main points in the complaint brought by the CMC on behalf of Mr and Mrs B and 
I will answer each of these in turn:
Handelsbanken did not sell the investment with Mr and Mrs Bs best interest at heart 
Appropriate documentation was not provided to Mr and Mrs B in a comprehensible form 
Clear information on investment strategy and costs and charges were not provided 
Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk was not classified correctly and the product sold was for 
someone with a higher risk tolerance 
Mr and Mrs B were not provided with clear information on costs of encashment
Handelsbanken pushed the sale of the fund and didnt provide any alternatives 
Handelsbanken did not sell the investment with Mr and Mrs Bs best interest at heart 
The CMC say that Handelsbanken sought to exclude or restrict the duties that it had with Mr 
and Mrs B and did this via verbal sales processes. The CMC say that Handelsbanken did 
not act honestly, fairly or professionally in accordance with the clients best interests.
My understanding of this point is that the CMC say that Handelsbanken provided advice and 
sold the product mainly though a face to face process and Mr and Mrs B were not provided 
with enough documentation so that they could make an informed decision.
I have looked at the documentation available to me which covers the fact find process and 
pre-sale information. From what I have seen within the file, I think that Mr and Mrs B were 
provided with information that allowed them to make an informed decision.
The Contact Report prepared by Handelsbanken following the meeting on 22 January 2020 
describes what was discussed during this meeting. The following is taken from the Contact 
Report:
How the recommendation met the objectives
Risk Profile, Capacity for Loss and Drawdown
All charges of advice, investment management
Fund Fact Sheet and KIID documentThe benefits of the Financial Planning Service
Investment to be phased into the market in 3 equal tranches as per 
recommendations.
Mr and Mrs B asked a number of questions with regards to the advice and 
confirmed their understanding of the recommendation.
PG confirmed that the advice provided within the recommendation report met the needs of 
the clients objectives.
Next steps & Timings
We completed all the application forms and I left the customer with a hard copy of the 
recommendation and copies of the Key Features and KIID documents.
Based on what I have seen, I think that Handelsbanken acted honestly, fairly and 
professionally. I think that Mr and Mrs B were provided with information that allowed them to 
make an informed decision. 
I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were provided with information that allowed them to make 
an informed decision as the Contact Report says that Mr and Mrs B asked questions about 
the advice and confirmed their understanding of the recommendation. The Report does not 
say that any follow up actions were required that would suggest questions were raised by Mr 
and Mrs B and were not answered at the time.
I am not persuaded that the sale was mainly verbal, and I can see that Mr and Mrs B were 
provided with hard copy documentation.
Appropriate documentation was not provided to Mr and Mrs B in a comprehensible form 
Mr and Mrs B were provided with Terms of Business and an Advice and Charges summary 
at the first meeting. This is customary when a business meets with prospective clients.
In their submission to the service, Handelsbanken have said that the documents below were 
discussed in detail with Mr and Mrs B:
Contact Report documenting the initial November meeting
Investment Recommendation Report 
Key Investor Information Factsheet 
Fund Factsheet 
When a business is providing financial advice to a client in an ongoing relationship, I would 
expect the above information to be provided and I am satisfied that Handelsbanken fulfilled 
their regulatory obligations to Mr and Mrs B and the documents were in a comprehensible 
form.
Clear information on investment strategy and costs and charges were not provided 
I have looked at the Advice and Charges Summary document that Mr and Mrs B were 
provided with and this is in line with the type of information that I would expect a business to 
send when entering a relationship.
The information is fair and clear and runs to two pages so not overly lengthy and 
complicated.I have noted Mr and Mrs Bs previous employment status. I am satisfied that this is 
information they would have understood. 
Information on the specific charges were also included in the Recommendation Report 
issued to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk was not classified correctly and the product sold was for 
someone with a higher risk tolerance 
In their view, the investigator disagreed with Handelsbanken and said that the make-up of 
the fund that was recommended would expose Mr and Mrs Bs money to more risk than they 
advised they were comfortable with.
The investigator also thought that as Mr and Mrs B had little experience with investments, 
they didnt truly understand the level of risk that they were exposing their capital.
I think that this is the key point in the complaint and where I disagree with the investigator.
When a business recommends an investment, it must consider the consumers personal and 
financial circumstances. This will involve looking at how much they can afford to invest and 
any liabilities outstanding. The business should also consider the consumers attitude to risk 
and make recommendations that match this risk tolerance.
I have looked at the Client Profile document that was completed by Mr and Mrs B and this 
captures details about their income and liabilities. It also includes information about previous 
investing history and their knowledge of investment matters. I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B 
had available funds to invest and had access to emergency cash if required.
In their submission to the service, Handelsbanken have said that Mr and Mrs Bs investment 
objective was to invest for income and growth. They said that Mr and Mrs Bs cash was in a 
deposit bank account earning 0.1% per annum and this would have not given any 
meaningful level of income which is why they wanted advice to discuss other investment 
ideas.
The Recommendation Report has the following statements:
You want the portfolio to have the opportunity of growth to keep ahead of inflation over the 
long-term but within the constraints of your overall attitude to risk 
In our discussions, you accepted the need to take risk in relation to your investment capital 
in order to achieve your long-term objectives. You would like however to avoid significant 
volatility with these monies, instead looking for a steady return from a combination of income 
and growth.
I am satisfied that Handelsbanken were aware of Mr and Mrs Bs investment objectives and 
they were looking for income and growth on their capital.
I said above that when a business provides advice to consumers in investments it has to 
consider attitude to risk. This is the amount of risk that a consumer wants to take with their 
capital. This should be aligned with the consumers investment objectives. As an example, if 
a consumer had an attitude to risk of low but wanted income and growth then it is unlikely 
that the investment objective would be met as the investment would not generate enough 
income and growth.In the Recommendations Report, it is noted that Mr and Mrs Bs overall attitude to risk was 
medium but there are some important points that have enabled this statement that I feel are 
relevant.
Mr and Mrs Bs investment questionnaire score was 2.14 which Handelsbanken say 
would normally indicate a defensive investment strategy.
Their capacity for loss was recorded as medium and this was based on discussions and 
responses to the questionnaire 
Mr and Mrs Bs overall attitude to risk was recorded as medium 
Within the conclusion section taking these factors in account, overlaid with the results of 
the risk questionnaire I recommend a cautious level of risk. This is higher than the 
defensive level of risk indicted by the risk questionnaire but is in keeping with your 
medium capacity for loss and gives access to an investment option with a natural income 
option which reduced the risk of capital erosion over the medium to long-term. This was 
also a level of risk that you felt comfortable with after discussing the December 2019 
Investment Presentation.
Having read the documentation available to me, there are some answers from Mr and Mrs B 
that are different to the overall attitude to risk assessment of medium. 
I have considered these and what Handelsbanken have said in their submission to explain 
how the overall assessment was measured.
Risk questionnaires are often used by businesses to ask how a consumer feels about certain 
risks, but it is not the only tool that an advisor will use. Handelsbanken have said that 
conversations were held with Mr and Mrs B to discuss the findings from the questionnaire 
and their overall approach to investing.
Handelsbanken have said that investment options were discussed when simulated historical 
losses and recovery times were looked at. Having looked at various models, Mr B said that 
he would consider a cautious risk income strategy. The higher risk strategy of a balanced 
income fund was also discussed but this was discounted by the advisor due to Mr Bs 
preference to avoid potentially higher levels of volatility due to greater equity content.
I think that Mr and Mrs B did discuss the various options that were available to them and 
different factors were used to make an informed decision from both sides and this is 
evidenced by the statement within the Contact Report which said that Mr and Mrs B asked a 
number of questions with regards to the advice and confirmed their understanding of the 
recommendation.
I think that Handelsbanken have considered Mr and Mrs Bs overall approach to risk. I am 
satisfied that the assessment of medium was reasonable.
Handelsbanken recommended the Income Multi Asset Fund. This was favoured over the 
segregated portfolio and the income variant of the fund was chosen ahead of the 
accumulation fund as Mr and Mrs B would be provided with additional monthly income.
I have looked at the fund fact sheet which shows how the fund was invested and the 
investment objective. I think that the fund is aligned to the investment objectives that Mr and 
Mrs B were looking for.
The asset allocation is spread between equities, bonds, property and other areas including 
commodities, hedge funds and cash. I am satisfied that there is enough diversification and 
the level of equity allocation is in line with a cautious approach and medium risk.Mr and Mrs B were not provided with clear information on costs of encashment
Having reviewed the documents available, I can see that administration charges are shown 
in the Recommendations Report that was provided to Mr and Mrs B. This shows that a 
charge of £20 will be applied to sales and purchases greater than £1,000.
Handelsbanken have said that the total charges levied to close the account were £60. I am 
satisfied that clear information on charges were supplied to Mr and Mrs B.
Handelsbanken pushed the sale of the fund and didnt provide any alternatives 
In their submission to the service, Handelsbanken have said that they offer restricted advice 
and any recommendations will be based on a limited selection of providers that they have 
chosen.
It is not the role of the service to say how a business should run its operation and I have 
seen evidence from the file that different options were discussed with Mr and Mrs B before 
the final recommendation was made and accepted.
Summary
I think that Handelsbanken have considered the personal and financial circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs B and have made recommendations that tie in with their investment objectives. I 
think that the advice was suitable.
The timing of the investment has not been kind to Mr and Mrs B and although this has not 
influenced my decision whether the advice was suitable or not, I think that it has played a 
part in Mr and Mrs B wishing to close their account due to losses incurred as global markets 
have fallen as a result of the Pandemic. 
As this was would have been unforeseen by Handelsbanken at the time the advice was 
given, I cant hold them responsible for the fall in the value of Mr and Mrs Bs investments.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman