DRN-3887801
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Kathryn Brown to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr R approached Kathryn Brown in April 2017 as he and his wife were considering buying a 
new home and were wondering if there was any way he could release money from his 
pension to do so. Mr and Mrs R lost the property they were interested in buying a short while 
after but Kathryn Brown suggested it meet with Mr R anyway to discuss his pension options.
 
Kathryn Brown completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and 
objectives. It noted the following: 
Mr R was aged 43 and married with three dependent children. 
He was employed as a manager earning £62,717 per year.  
Mr and Mrs R had joint total monthly commitments of approximately £1,600 including 
their mortgage payment of £639. Their disposable income was noted as being 
£2,700.
Mr and Mrs Rs home was valued at £320,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£185,000.
Mr and Mrs R owned two plots of land worth about £100,000 and £25,000 
respectively. They had no other savings or investments. 
Mr R was a member of his current employers DB pension scheme which had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £967,101.04. Aside from his state pension this 
was the only pension that he had at the time. 
Mr R wanted to be able to start taking his pension benefits at age 55 and to take 
more money to enjoy himself in the early years of retirement and then less as he got 
older. 
He may reduce his working week or step down to a lesser role and wanted to avoid 
impacting his pensionable salary.
Kathryn Brown also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be balanced. 
On 15 May 2017, Kathryn Brown issued Mr R with its suitability report and advised him to 
transfer the scheme benefits from DB scheme to a personal pension, with a provider Ill call 
Z, and invest the proceeds in a moderately cautious managed investment fund. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary:-
The ability for Mr R to pass on the full value of his pension to his dependents in the 
event of his death.
Protection of his transfer value should he reduce his working hours in the future. 
The potential to take benefits at age 55 and to vary his income in order to drawdown 
a larger income in the early years of retirement. 
Mr R accepted the recommendation and the transfer took effect shortly after; a total of 
£967,101.04 was received into the personal pension with Z. Kathryn Browns fee for 
arranging the transfer was £9,671.01 and it charged an ongoing annual adviser fee of 0.5% 
of the fund value. Z also made an annual product charge of 0.35% on the first £100,000 of 
the fund value, 0.3% on the next £150,000, 0.27% on the next £750,000 and 0.22% on the 
fund value over £1million. In addition Z made a further £75 charge each year and there was 
an annual fund manager charge of 0.83%. 
In January 2022 Mr R complained to Kathryn Brown about the suitability of the advice it had 
given him to transfer his DB scheme benefits. More specifically Mr R said:- 
His main objective had been to take his pension benefits at 55 but he was concerned 
that the pension age was being raised to 57. Mr R said hed not been informed about 
this at the time of the advice and that if hed known about it he would have remained 
in his DB scheme and retired at age 55 from that instead. 
That the potential risks associated with the transfer hadnt been explained to him.
That hed received no projections and that the only illustration hed received at the 
time of the advice was based on him retiring at age 65. He said he could have taken 
a full pension from his DB scheme at age 60.
That the benefits he was giving up werent explained to him and that he received no 
information about his DB scheme at the time of the advice. 
He felt the personal pension had been mis-sold and he wanted redress. 
Kathryn Brown looked into Mr Rs complaint but found no evidence to suggest the advice it 
gave him was unsuitable or that the personal pension had been mis-sold. It said it didnt 
accept that he hadnt been provided with information or that the risks hadnt been fully 
explained to him; it referred to the documents hed signed at the time to say he understood 
the advice he was being given. It said his main priority had been to pass the full value of his 
fund on to his family upon his death and it said he had wanted to protect the CETV of the 
scheme in the event he reduced his hours or took a more junior, less well paid, position. 
Kathryn Brown said it was happy that the advice it gave Mr R was suitable and allowed him 
to achieve these objectives. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Kathryn Browns investigation Mr R referred his complaint to 
our service. Our Investigator looked into his complaint and recommended that it was upheld. 
He thought that Mr R should have been advised by Kathryn Brown to remain in his DB 
scheme as there was little evidence he needed the freedoms that a personal pension 
offered. Our investigator recommended that Mr R be compensated in line with the regulators 
(the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) guidance.  
Kathryn Brown disagreed with our Investigators findings. It repeated that Mr R wanted to 
ensure upon his death that his family could inherit the full residual value of his pension fund 
rather than just his wife (and children, depending on their age at the time) receiving a 
percentage of his DB scheme pension. It also said Mr R wanted to be able to access his 
pension pot flexibly rather than have a fixed income. Kathryn Brown went on to say that 
Mr Rs retirement wasnt entirely reliant on his pension because he had other assets and at 
least 12 years of employment left during which he could make contributions to his 
employers defined contribution (DC) pension scheme (which Mr R had joined after the 
transfer) thereby giving him further assets at his desired retirement age. Finally, Kathryn 
Brown said our Investigator had not considered whether or not any unsuitable advice it had 
given was causative of any loss to Mr R. So it said it didnt understand how our Investigator 
could decide it was liable without doing so. Kathryn Brown said that, subject to receipt of any further comments from our Investigator, it 
would consider what he said and then decide if an oral hearing might be required in this 
complaint. 
Our Investigator replied to say that whilst Mr Rs intentions hadnt been without reason they 
werent sufficiently compelling, on balance, to outweigh the loss of the guaranteed benefits 
offered by the DB scheme. He said this was particularly the case given his reliance on the 
scheme for his retirement income. Our Investigator said that Kathryn Browns priority was to 
make a recommendation for Mr R based on what was best for his retirement. And he added 
that he didnt agree that the different way in which death benefits were available in a 
personal pension justified giving up his guaranteed benefits under the DB scheme. Finally 
our Investigator said thered been no analysis by Kathryn Brown of Mr Rs retirement income 
needs and he said hed seen no evidence that Mr R would have transferred his benefits 
without Kathryn Browns recommendation. So he thought Kathryn Browns advice had been 
causative. 
No further response was received from Kathryn Brown so the complaint was referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Kathryn Browns actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Kathryn Brown should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer 
was in Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr R was aged 43 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire early at age 55. Kathryn 
Brown carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much investment growth (known as the critical yield) Mr Rs pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme.
The critical yield required to match Mr Rs benefits at the schemes normal retirement date 
(NRD) of age 65 was 5.91% if he took a full pension. No analysis was included for Mr R 
taking tax free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. Nor was there any analysis or critical 
yield produced for Mr R taking early retirement at age 55. I think that Kathryn Brown 
shouldve provided Mr R with the relevant critical yields for retiring at age 55 so that he was 
able to make an informed decision given that he had expressed a desire to retire at that age. 
But I do know that when the advice was given the relevant discount rate was 4.5% per year 
for 21 years to retirement at age 65. And the discount rate for retiring at age 55 was 3.9%. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr R 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield to his NRD 
was 5.91%, I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
And the critical yield was likely to be higher at age 55 (and age 60) given the fund will have 
had less time to grow.
Ive thought too about Mr Rs capacity for loss. I can see that the suitability report said that 
Mr Rs financial position was such that any loss of capital would not impact his standard of 
living or affect his objectives. Mr Rs DB scheme was his only pension in which he had 25 
years of service. And given his only assets aside from his mortgaged home were the two 
plots of land and that he had no other anticipated sources of income (except for his state 
pension entitlement and any fund he went on to build up in his employers DC scheme that 
he later joined) I dont think he had any capacity to absorb a loss on the pension transfer. If it 
was acting in his best interests, I think Kathryn Brown should have made that clear to Mr R 
when it was advising him. 
Also Mr R had no investments or savings and his DB scheme represented the entirety of his 
retirement savings. Despite having no investment experience, Kathryn Brown advised him to 
transfer his secure guaranteed benefits into a risk-based investment scheme. I cant agree, 
from the evidence Ive seen, and to which I have referred, that Mr R had sufficient capacity 
for loss for this because, at the time of the advice, he was totally reliant on his DB scheme 
for his retirement income (aside from any state pension retirement  but not until age 67) 
and had no other savings or investments which he could fall back on. Its also worth mentioning that Kathryn Brown was obliged by the regulator to have due 
regard to Mr Rs information needs and was required to act honestly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. By not providing Mr R with complete 
information to allow him to make an informed decision about the critical yield for retiring at 
age 55, and even at age 60 (the age at which he could take benefits from his DB scheme 
without reduction), I dont think Kathryn Brown can be said to have properly discharged its 
regulatory obligations in this respect.
For financial viability reasons alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Rs best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, 
as Kathryn Brown has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the reasons that Kathryn Brown recommended Mr R transfer his DB scheme 
was for the flexibility and control it offered him. Having considered the evidence, I dont think 
Mr R needed to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in 
retirement. I can see from the CETV that Mr R was forecast to receive an estimated annual 
pension from the DB scheme of £60,632 at NRD. And I can also see from CETV that 
scheme members could choose to retire from the scheme at age 60 with non-reduced 
benefits. The scheme information states that early retirement factors were only applied to 
members taking retirement under the age of 60. So Mr R could have taken retirement at age 
60 from the DB scheme without penalty. But I cant see that Kathryn Brown carried out a full 
assessment of Mr Rs scheme benefits, or assessed what income he needed in retirement, 
to see if he could achieve his goal of early retirement by remaining in the scheme.
Mr R was only age 43 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he didnt have 
concrete retirement plans. Mr R told Kathryn Brown that his role at work was stressful and 
that one of the reasons he was looking to transfer his pension was that it would allow him to 
reduce his workload by demoting himself to an inferior role. Kathryn Brown noted that Mr R 
was aware that by doing this he would be reducing his pension benefits (presumably as a 
result of the way in which they were calculated) but felt he would be happier and less 
stressed as a result. 
It isnt clear whether this was a definite plan of Mr Rs and, if it was, what the timetable was 
for its implementation. Nor is it clear if this was something his employers would permit and, if 
they would, exactly what the financial impact on his DB scheme benefits would be. So, not 
only was it too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme to 
facilitate retirement at age 55 given that Mr R had 12 years before he could even think about 
accessing his pension, it was also too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out for this reason. 
I dont think it was suitable to advise Mr R to transfer on the basis he may seek to 
downgrade his role at work without fully exploring the timetable for doing so, ascertaining 
whether it was at all possible and also finding out precisely the effect any downgrade in role 
would have on his scheme benefits. Without this information, Kathryn Brown wasnt having 
regard to Mr Rs information needs in order that he could make an informed decision about 
whether the transfer was in his best interests. And Mr Rs objective of downgrading his role 
at work didnt displace the need for Kathryn Brown to provide suitable advice even if, in so 
doing, it challenged any pre-conceived intentions Mr R may have had  Mr R had no prior 
experience of making decisions of this nature so he couldnt know for sure whether these 
intended actions were in his best interests. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr R to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be or whether he 
would, or could, downgrade his role at work. If Mr R later had reason to transfer out of his 
DB scheme then he could have done so closer to retirement.
It's evident that Mr R could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr R had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr R had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. An advisers job isnt to simply facilitate a 
customers wants. Any objectives should be thoroughly interrogated to determine if they are 
realistic or not or achievable through other means. And ultimately the adviser had to 
determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits available through the DB 
scheme was in Mr Rs best interests. 
But Ive seen no evidence that Kathryn Brown meaningfully explored Mr Rs retirement 
objectives with him. Most people, if asked, say that they would want to retire as early as 
possible. But if Kathryn Brown had had full regard to Mr Rs information and communication 
needs I think it should have explored his actual retirement plans and what was important to 
him. 
I cant see that Kathryn Brown determined what income Mr R would require in retirement, or 
whether he could put the monthly disposable income of £2,700 identified on the fact-find 
towards building a savings pot which could provide him with flexibility in retirement. I cant 
see either when Mr Rs mortgage was due to be paid off which, when it is, would mean his 
disposable income would increase thereby allowing him to further add to a flexibly 
accessible savings pot in order to top up his retirement income. This could all have been 
achieved without transferring and giving up his scheme benefits however, none of this 
seems to have been explored by Kathryn Brown. 
Mr Rs monthly outgoings at the time of the advice were approximately £1,600 and this figure 
includes his mortgage repayment of almost £700. So it is entirely feasible that even by taking 
his DB scheme benefits at age 55, where I can see there was a forecast for an annual 
income of £30,469, that this would have been sufficient income to meet his needs. But, as 
Ive said, Ive seen no evidence that this option was explored by Kathryn Brown. So without 
any realistic insight into what Mr Rs retirement lump sum and income needs and aspirations 
were it is difficult to understand how Kathryn Brown was able to conclude that the transfer 
was in his best interests. 
Finally, Mr R says that if Kathryn Brown had informed him at the time of the advice that the 
normal minimum pension age (the age at which pensions can be accessed) was set to 
increase from age 55 to age 57 then he would have left his DB scheme benefits where they 
were so he could have accessed them at 55. Whilst I acknowledge the point that Mr R has 
made here, as I think that the transfer or Mr Rs DB scheme was unsuitable for other 
reasons, I dont propose to provide any comment on this specific point.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But I cant see that 
Kathryn Brown explained to Mr R that if he lived a long life, or drew down his benefits until 
his plan was exhausted, that there would be nothing to leave to his beneficiaries. So whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Kathryn 
Brown explored to what extent Mr R was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr R 
was married with three dependent children and so the spouses and dependents pension 
provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse and children if Mr R 
predeceased them. I dont think Kathryn Brown made the value of this benefit clear enough 
to Mr R. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Kathryn Brown noted Mr Rs main objective as being to protect the full value of his pension 
in the event of his death, and to pass on the full value of the plan to his wife and children. 
And, as Ive said above, if Mr R lived a long life then his fund may have been significantly 
depleted and there would be little left to pass on. In any event, Kathryn Brown should not 
have encouraged Mr R to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and/or children, 
which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his 
death, I think Kathryn Brown shouldve instead explored the option of life insurance. I 
appreciate that Kathryn Brown obtained some quotes for Mr R for a whole of life policy with a 
sum assured of £1,158,183 - this was discounted by Mr R because of the cost (the cheapest 
policy having a premium of £1,028 per month). But I dont think that this was a balanced way 
of presenting this option to Mr R.
Basing the quote on a sum assured that was larger than the transfer value of Mr Rs pension 
benefits essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and 
that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr R wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his 
spouse and children, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life and/or if 
investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr R how 
much he would ideally like to leave to his wife and children, and this couldve been explored 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
I note that Kathryn Brown has referred to the assets Mr R has (the two plots of land) and 
which he could use in retirement. But I think that to be able to rely on these assets to justify 
the transfer Kathryn Brown needed to analyse how they could have provided Mr R with a 
retirement income and, if they could, whether they would provide enough of an income to 
meet his retirement income needs; but Kathryn Brown didnt undertake such analysis. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr R, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr R should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investment recommendation wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. But Kathryn 
Brown wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
So, I think Kathryn Brown shouldve advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Kathryn 
Browns advice. Kathryn Brown argues that it needs to be established that any unsuitable 
advice it gave was causative of Mr Rs loss. It says this requires consideration of what would 
have happened had it advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Kathryn Browns advice. I say this because Mr R 
was an inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted 
for the vast majority of his retirement provision. So, if Kathryn Brown had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. It is also worth stating that Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr R wouldve insisted on going against such advice had it been given. Im not 
persuaded that Mr Rs objectives were such a priority for him that he would have insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise hed sought out, didnt 
think it was suitable for him or in his best interests.
And if Kathryn Brown had explained to Mr R that he was always unlikely to exceed the 
guaranteed benefits available to him by transferring, that he shouldnt be prioritising death 
benefits over retirement benefits, that the flexibility he sought could be met by other means, 
that the uncertainty over his requirements meant transferring at that time was not in his 
interests and that the other things hed expressed worry about were not things he needed to 
be as concerned about as he was, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme. It follows that I think 
that the unsuitable advice Kathryn Brown gave Mr R was causative of his loss. 
In light of the above, I think Kathryn Brown should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Finally I should state that I note Kathryn Browns comment in response to our Investigators 
view that, subject to receipt of his further comments it would consider whether an oral 
hearing may be required in this case. I note that Kathryn Brown has had over six weeks to 
consider our Investigators further comments (and that our Investigator chased it in the 
interim) but that no further comments have been forthcoming either in relation to the merits 
of this complaint or in respect of any hearing request. As no hearing request has been made 
there is nothing for me to consider in this respect and, in any event, I'm satisfied that I have 
sufficient evidence on which to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion without holding a 
hearing.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Kathryn Brown must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Kathryn Brown should:
always calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Kathryn Browns offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if Mr R ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Kathryn Brown may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Kathryn Brown to pay 
Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Kathryn Brown pays Mr R the balance. 
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Kathryn Brown.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman