DRN-3937594
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the way in which Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds) handled her claim under her home insurance policy following water damage to her 
home.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Lloyds includes its agents, claims consultants and 
contractors in this decision letter. Miss W includes submissions made by her representative 
on her behalf. 
What happened
Miss W unfortunately suffered significant damage to her property in August 2021 following 
an escape of water from a hot-water feed pipe in the first-floor bathroom of her home. Water 
leaked through the kitchen, lounge and hallway ceilings and water was left standing on the 
floor. Examples of the necessary work were removal of ceilings to allow drying and provision 
of replacement flooring and cladding and decoration throughout. Miss W contacted Lloyds 
and the claims process commenced. It took eight months for the works to be carried out and 
Miss W was unhappy with aspects of the work. She felt that certain matters still hadnt been 
resolved, particularly settlement for damage to antique doors and stair carpet.
Miss W was also unhappy about delays, a poor service, poor standards of work and further 
damage she said had been caused to her property. She was unhappy that Lloyds had 
declined to pay all the electric bills at her property during the relevant period. She was also 
unhappy with what she considered to be Lloyds last-minute arrangement of alternative 
accommodation. She also said that shed suffered from back pain as a result of having to sit 
on a sun-lounger rather than her own furniture for a number of months and had to take time 
off work as a result. She said that this had all caused a great deal of stress.
Miss W complained about these matters to Lloyds, however Lloyds considered that it had 
acted fairly and reasonably in settling her claim. It said it had also paid a total of £750 
compensation which included an amount for distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays and service issues. As a result, Miss W brought her complaint to this service. 
The investigator who looked into the matter thought that Lloyds had resolved most issues, 
however, she did think that there were outstanding points. The investigator therefore partly 
upheld Miss Ws complaint although she didnt think that Lloyds needed to pay further 
compensation. She did think that Lloyds still needed to resolve the carpet claim. She thought 
that Miss W needed to provide further evidence regarding her back condition and its cause, 
and also regarding her claim that Lloyds had caused damage to antique doors.
Miss W remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether Lloyds applied the terms of the relevant home 
insurance policy and generally handled Miss Ws claim in a fair and reasonable manner. I 
consider that it has done so in most respects, however I uphold Miss Ws complaint in 
relation to the carpet damage. I therefore uphold Miss Ws complaint in relation to this 
particular aspect. Ill explain my reasons for this decision.
Ive carefully considered the submissions and evidence of the parties and turn firstly to Miss 
Ws submissions. In summary, she said that none of Lloyds responses met her satisfaction 
and that Lloyds had known about issues for a long time but hadnt attended to them. Miss W 
was adamant that a number of antique doors in the house, which were an original feature of 
the house, had been damaged by Lloyds contractors. She said they had marks, scores and 
gouges in them. She provided photographs and said that they illustrated this point. She 
thought it was obvious that all these marks were recent. She also said that the door frames 
were warped and that the doors didnt close properly. In the circumstances, she wanted 
replacement doors and all these doors would need to be individually constructed by a skilled 
craftsman in order to match the current ones. 
In terms of the reimbursement for the gas and electricity used, Miss W thought that the 
amount reimbursed wasnt sufficient. She said that to give an idea of consumption, over 
1300 kWh of gas was used in March 2022 alone, whilst gas and electricity was used 
throughout the works project, and she didnt think she should be responsible for paying this. 
She estimated that this was several hundreds over the course of the works.
As to the stair carpet, she said  it had thick mud and spilled paint and plaster all the way 
from top to bottom, this was a brand new 100% woollen carpet fitted less than a year before 
this. Miss W said that Lloyds had expected her to return to her house when it was filthy and 
said that she and her representative were being treated like animals at this stage. She said 
that specialist cleaners did manage to make the house habitable, but even though they 
specialised in carpet cleaning they couldn't get the marks out of the carpet. She was still 
waiting to hear about a figure for the carpet having contacted the relevant company a 
number of times.
In terms of alternative accommodation, Miss W had initially thought that the works would be 
starting within a month or so and therefore opted not to be rehoused until the works started. 
She felt tricked however, as the works didn't start for over five months, Miss W said that 
she, her representative and her cats had to endure living in one room, in a damp and mouldy 
environment with a single sun recliner to sit on as the leather sofas in the living room were 
deemed unfit to use due to the water damage. As a consequence, she said she now had 
severe back problems. She also referred to having to live in a damp house without heating 
when the boiler broke down in December 2021 due to water damage.
Miss W didnt believe that it would have been difficult for Lloyds to find accommodation for 
herself and three cats and there were dozens of examples which were pet friendly in the 
local area. Miss W said she was told by Lloyds that that the absolute limit for 
accommodation costs for the duration of the works had to be under £1,500. Shed therefore 
worried about exceeding this limit. She also thought that Lloyds had organised unsuitable 
accommodation for her in terms of location. Miss W said that shed been placed in 
accommodation which she really liked at one stage, but because the works took so long, this 
caused problems and she had to vacate. She described further problems and none of these 
were due to having cats. Miss W said that on 3 occasions we were almost on the street.
Miss W said that none of the outstanding snagging works had been carried out and Lloyds 
hadnt been in touch about sorting them out as it said that it was the contractors responsibility to reimburse Miss W. She said she knew at the outset that Lloyds and its 
contractor would blame each other as to who should fix items or compensate her.
Finally, Miss W acknowledged that various sums had been received in settlement for various 
aspects of her claim. However, she felt she should receive further compensation for the 
stress, mental anguish and the physical ailments that the ordeal had caused. She 
considered that shed been treated with utmost disrespect, and she didnt consider that the 
total compensation of £750 came close to the amount which she thought should be paid. 
She considered that the whole episode had caused her significant health issues and that 
Lloyds representative has tried to ruin our lives! She referenced ineptitude, lack of 
professionalism and couldn't care less attitude.
I now turn to Lloyds submissions regarding this case. It acknowledged that the claim had 
taken a long time to resolve. It said the works werent completed sooner due to service 
issues from contractor involvement. However, it thought that each time a complaint was 
raised by Miss Ws representative, it had reacted promptly and offered suitable assistance 
within the parameters allowed by the policy. It considered the overall compensation for 
service shortfalls and delays of £750 to be reasonable.
It rejected certain complaint points. It said that it hadnt been made aware that Miss W had 
been relying on a sun lounger and it hadnt therefore had the opportunity to make provision 
for this. It said that there was no evidence to suggest the doors and frames had been 
damaged by contractors, especially when some related to rooms where they did not enter. 
It said that reimbursement for additional utility costs had been offered throughout the claim, 
but it said it was unable to pay the bills in full as some costs would have been incurred in any 
event had no loss event taken place, so wouldnt be covered as part of the claim. 
Lloyds accepted that there was evidence that the carpet had been damaged and unlikely to 
be successfully cleaned and it said that its carpet supplier had been appointed to replace the 
carpet. However, it didnt explain why this matter hadnt been progressed since then. 
It accepted that alternative accommodation had been arranged at short notice and said that 
part of the compensation figure recognised distress caused in this respect. It referred to the 
difficulties in arranging accommodation when the timescale for works wasnt known and 
where housing pets restricts the available options. Lloyds didnt agree that Miss W would 
have been made homeless and said that, if necessary, a hotel would have been provided. 
Its case-notes showed that in late-November 2022, Miss W had said that she was going to 
need accommodation whilst the works proceeded as previous plans have fell through. She 
therefore asked about the process and made it clear that she would need; to find 
accommodation that would house 3 cats and myself.
As to a rental limit of £1,500, it explained to Miss Ws representative that the £1500 referred 
to was in relation to the monthly costs and was a guide figure. It explained however there 
was no set figure as it was dependent on each customers individual needs, and also what 
was available on the market. It said If you can send me details once you have found 
somewhere you think would be suitable and I will review. It also said; Re alternative 
accommodation when I spoke with [Miss W] she confirmed that the house was habitable and 
that she was able to stay there
Lloyds considered it had made a generous offer regarding damage to the kitchen, but 
accepted there were workmanship issues, comprising of outstanding work to a ceiling, 
beading and a light. It considered that as Miss W wished to arrange for a new kitchen to be 
fitted, it had been necessary for Miss W to decide if she wished to proceed with this, so it 
knew how to approach these issues. It said that the dialogue was then opened as to whether 
a cash offer could be made and considered this resolved.As to written evidence, Lloyds produced a number of reports which has been provided by its 
contractors. It also produced two separate final response letters. In the first, it explained it 
had paid Miss W £200 to apologise for the delays shed encountered and accepted that 
there had been an unfair delay of three months. In its second final response letter about 
further areas of concern raised by Miss W, Lloyds accepted that there had been certain 
service issues and delays, however it declined Miss Ws claim regarding the doors and 
energy bills. As to the service issues and delays, Lloyds paid £550 to make up for the 
inconvenience and upset that has been caused. It appreciated that there had been times 
where the arrangement of the accommodation had been left late and said it had taken this 
into consideration when calculating the compensation offered.
Having considered the parties submissions, I now turn to the reasoning for my final decision. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Miss W, bearing in mind what she has been through. The 
original incident and the damage caused will have been extremely distressing. The damage 
was significant and, due to the amount of work needed to restore the property to its pre-
incident condition, this was likely to cause considerable inconvenience. It also meant that 
Miss W had to live away from home. The claims validation process, engagement of 
contractors, alternative accommodation and negotiation of a settlement will also have 
caused distress and anxiety. Unfortunately, some stress and inconvenience are inevitable 
consequences of such an incident due to the significant and complex nature of both the 
damage and claim. The issue to be determined however, is whether Lloyds handling of Miss 
Ws claim added to that stress and inconvenience and if so, whether it adequately 
recognised and compensated for any failings.
Lloyds has accepted that they didnt get everything right and that the work took much longer 
than it should have done. I agree that eight months to get the substantive work completed 
wasnt fair or reasonable, even bearing in mind any additional difficulties in sourcing labour 
and materials during the pandemic. I note that Lloyds stated that their compensation figure 
was intended to include an amount relating to these delays. 
Ive noted that at the end of May 2022, Lloyds had listed the remaining snagging items as 
beading, the doors, carpet, kitchen ceiling and garden edging. Miss Ws representative 
accepted this and said Yes, that seems to be all the snagging issues that we can think of at 
the moment, in fact Im pretty sure thats everything. Of these items, it now appears that the 
doors and carpet are the key remaining issues for Miss W. Ive noted from the case notes 
that Miss W and her representative had lengthy discussions with Lloyds as to whether 
Lloyds would carry out work to the kitchen or whether they preferred to receive a cash 
settlement instead. It appears that a negotiated settlement was ultimately reached on this 
element.
As to settlement of any additional gas and electricity charges, I note that Miss didnt consider 
that Lloyds adequately recompensed her for the amount of energy used when her property 
was being dried out and when workers were at her property. In the absence of persuasive 
evidence to show the amount of energy typically used by Miss W prior to the incident, Im 
unfortunately unable to say that the settlement reached by Lloyds for this aspect was unfair 
or unreasonable.
Ive also noted from the case notes that Miss W made it clear in autumn 2021 that she was 
intending to stay in her mothers house while her mother was away until December 2021, 
however this fell through. The issues in relation to alternative accommodation therefore 
arose in December. Having read the case notes, I can see that making arrangements for 
alternative accommodation hadnt been easy. I can appreciate the additional stress which 
would have been caused to Miss W, in not knowing whether and to where she would next be 
moving. I note that Lloyds was engaged in detailed discussions to try to arrange this accommodation. I also note that at one stage towards the end of the works, the possibility of 
hotel accommodation was discussed. I cant say that all of the difficulties can be attributed to 
a lack of diligence by Lloyds in this important matter. I do however agree with Miss W that 
the service wasnt entirely fair and reasonable in terms of some arrangements being made at 
very short notice.
When it was accepted that Miss W could find her own accommodation, she said that she 
was told the absolute limit for accommodation per month was £1,500 per month. I note 
however that in early December 2021 Lloyds had made it clear that this wasnt the case, and 
it further explained its approach.
As to the antique doors, I agree with the investigator that Miss W would need to supply 
further evidence such as photographic evidence of the doors before the work took place, in 
order to support the argument that damage had been caused by Lloyds contractors. Miss W 
has made the point that the doors are antique 1920s doors. However, the photographs 
appear to show relatively minor damage and I cant conclude that this is recent damage. 
Bearing in mind the age of the doors and, without such additional evidence, I consider that 
on the balance of probabilities this damage has been caused by wear and tear over very 
many years. Its also unlikely that five doors would all have been damaged during this one 
project and I dont uphold this element of Miss Ws complaint.
As to Miss Ws severe back pain, I appreciate that this will be most distressing. Miss W 
considered that this was as a result of having to use a sun-lounger for many months. Again, 
unfortunately for Miss W I cant uphold this element of Miss Ws complaint. Im satisfied that 
as Lloyds werent notified of this at the relevant time and couldnt reasonably have been 
aware of it, or being notified of any concerns, it wasnt in a position to provide any remedy. I 
cant therefore say that there was a causal link between the back pain and anything that 
Lloyds did do or didnt do in this respect. Finally, having read the very detailed case-notes 
which record Lloyds contacts with Miss W, contractors and letting agents, Ive seen no 
evidence of ineptitude, lack of professionalism and couldn't care less attitude by Lloyds 
representative or evidence that Miss W was treated with disrespect. 
Unfortunately for Miss W, I consider that the vast majority of her ordeal would have been 
experienced however efficiently the claim and work had been carried out by Lloyds. 
However, there are some elements for which I dont consider Miss W received a fair and 
reasonable service. Having said this, I note that Lloyds had recognised these service failings 
and delays. In all the circumstances, I consider that £750 compensation was a fair and 
reasonable amount to recognise the additional distress and inconvenience caused by 
Lloyds handling of the claim. This is within the range of compensation which we would 
consider to be reasonable under our guidance for the type of distress and inconvenience 
caused and the length of time for which these issues continued.
In conclusion, I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint in relation to the carpet element of her 
complaint. The carpet appears not to have been replaced or alternatively a cash settlement 
for it appears not to have been made by Lloyds. In all other respects, I dont require Lloyds 
to do anything else in response to the remainder of Miss Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint and require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to: -
- Promptly settle Miss Ws claim for damage to her carpet, such settlement to be made 
within 28 days of acceptance of this Final Decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman