DRN-1222666
The complaint
Ms K complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc don't automatically put her cash ISA onto its best 
available rate when higher ones become available.
What happened
Ms K has a cash ISA with Sainsbury's. From time to time it changes the rate it offers new 
customers, and sometimes this is a better rate than Ms K receives in her ISA. When she's 
noticed this, she's called Sainsbury's and it has changed her ISA to the better rate.
Ms K complained to Sainsbury's about having to proactively do this herself. She said the 
terms of her ISA say Sainsbury's will let her know if it changes the rate. She said it should 
automatically move her onto the best rate it offers, or at least tell her when a better rate is 
available. She said she doesn't use online banking so isn't able to see when new rates are 
offered on the Sainsbury's website.
Sainsbury's said it wasn't obliged to tell her about new rates it was offering to other 
customers, and that the rate on her own ISA hadn't changed. So it didn't think it had done 
anything wrong.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought Sansbury's had treated Ms K fairly. 
He explained that it was entitled to offer different rates, and didn't have to specifically write to 
all its existing customers to tell them about it. He was satisfied that by publishing its different 
products and rates the way it did, and allowing Ms K to switch to better rates when she 
asked, it had acted in a reasonable way.
Ms K wasn't satisfied and thought Sainsbury's still needed to do more. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms K feels strongly about her complaint, and I've considered her submissions 
carefully. But overall, I agree with our investigator that Sainsbury's has treated her fairly and 
reasonably, so I won't be asking it to do anything differently.
Ms K's right to say the terms of her ISA set out that Sainsbury's will let her know if the rate 
on her account changes. But I'm satisfied that it hasn't (except when she's asked for it to be 
changed, which it's confirmed to her on the phone). Her ISA has continued to pay the same 
rate of interest, albeit that Sainsbury's offer a different rate of interest to other accounts, 
under various criteria and at different times. This is common across the banking industry and 
is provided for in the terms of Ms K's ISA - which since late 2018 have said about the rate 
she'd receive:
"We may offer different interest rates for new accounts. The interest rate on your account 
won't automatically change to match the new rates."
So I'm satisfied that Sainsbury's has operated Ms K's ISA in line with the terms. I understand 
Ms K's frustration - she wants to ensure she is getting the best rate available. But I have to 
take into account relevant rules and regulations when deciding what's fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. While rules may change in time, as things stand there isn't 
anything in the relevant rules governing Sainsbury's operation of its ISA accounts which 
says it needs to put customers on the best available rate, or write to existing customers 
when new rates become available.
I think that's fair. While Ms K may not use online banking, I'm satisfied Sainsbury's makes 
information about its range of products and services readily available. I don't think it would 
be reasonable to expect it to inform all its customers whenever a new product becomes 
available.
So while I have sympathy for Ms K, overall I'm not persuaded she's been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given I don't uphold this complaint. 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman