DRN-3752427
The complaint
Miss W complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to complete the transfer of her 
pension savings to another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022. In that decision I explained 
why thought part of the complaint should be upheld and what Scottish Widows needed to do 
in order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, 
for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts 
from it below. In my decision I said;
Miss W held pension savings with Scottish Widows. She also appears to have held 
other pension savings in a self-invested personal pension with another provider that 
I will call H. In November 2020 Miss W asked H to request the transfer of her pension 
savings from Scottish Widows. A request for that transfer was submitted by H, to 
Scottish Widows, using the automated Origo Options system on 26 November.
I understand that Miss W had moved address earlier in 2020, but hadnt updated
Scottish Widows with that change. So, when Scottish Widows checked the transfer 
request it had received, it noted that the information provided by H didnt match its 
records. So that caused Scottish Widows to implement a checking and validation 
process to ensure that the instruction it had received was genuine.
After receiving confirmation of Miss Ws change of address Scottish Widows checks 
were completed on 16 December. So it then restarted the processing of her transfer 
request. Scottish Widows has explained that it was facing some processing backlogs 
at that time so had amended its normal 10 working day SLA to 15 days. It says that 
the transfer was sent to H on 7 January 2021 in line with that expectation.
When it first looked at Miss Ws complaint Scottish Widows told her that it didnt think 
it had completed the transfer as quickly as it should have. And it thought the 
information it had given her about the progress of the transfer had not been accurate. 
So it offered to pay her £200 for the inconvenience shed been caused. Scottish 
Widows also offered to pay £48 for the cost of the phone calls Miss W had needed to 
make. And it later offered a further interest payment of £167.31 after tax for the 
delay. Miss W didnt accept those payments and brought her complaint to us.
 
Before we had been able to assess the complaint Scottish Widows reconsidered 
what had happened. Following that review Scottish Widows said that the delays to 
the transfer had been as a direct result of Miss W not updating her address. So it 
didnt think any compensatory interest should have been offered  although it did 
agree to honour its original offer, and also pay the compensation for the 
inconvenience and phone calls.
In its original response to Miss W, Scottish Widows agreed that it had not completed 
her transfer request as quickly as it should. But, later, it reviewed what had happened 
and concluded that the delays were not its fault. It said the delays had been caused 
by a mismatch between the address the new provider, H, held and the address 
showing on Scottish Widows systems. But Scottish Widows said that it would still 
honour the compensation it had previously offered to Miss W.
Ive looked carefully at what happened with Miss Ws transfer request, and Im not 
persuaded that it was processed as quickly as it should have been. There was a 
period of more than a week before Scottish Widows noticed the difference in the 
addresses and asked for clarification from H. And there was another, although much 
shorter, delay whilst Scottish Widows updated its systems to reflect that it was now 
satisfied that Miss Ws transfer request was valid. Scottish Widows says that it was 
working to an extended SLA at that time due to resourcing constraints. But that 
wasnt the fault of Miss W  and I think a maximum of 10 working days for the 
completion of the transfer, although allowing for a pause in the middle of that 
processing time for the address checks to be completed, would have been 
reasonable.
 
But since Scottish Widows has agreed it would honour the offer it made to Miss W 
when it originally accepted responsibility for the delay I dont think I need to explore 
that any further. Instead, as Miss W has herself suggested, my focus for the 
remainder of this decision should be on whether any delay has caused her to lose 
out, and if so whether the compensation that Scottish Widows has already offered is 
sufficient.
Miss W says that her intention when requesting the transfer was for her pension 
savings to be invested into some cryptocurrency assets. She says that there was 
very strong market sentiment that the price of those investments would rise rapidly 
over the following months. And Miss W has provided us with market data that shows 
that expectation was borne out  the value of those investments did indeed rise by a 
significant amount around that time.
But in October 2020 the regulator, the FCA, had announced that it would be imposing 
a ban on the sale of crypto assets to retail investors. It said that the ban would need 
to be implemented by investment platforms by 6 January 2021 at the latest. But, the 
FCA didnt require existing investments to be sold  it said those could be held 
indefinitely.
Miss W says she was aware of the forthcoming ban, and had held crypto assets in 
the past. So she says the impending ban, along with the expected rise in the value, 
was why she was pressing Scottish Widows to complete her transfer as soon as 
possible. But, as Ive said earlier, the transfer of Miss Ws pension savings wasnt 
completed by Scottish Widows until 7 January, and there was a further delay before 
those funds became available to invest on Hs platform. So Miss W says she was 
prevented from making the intended investments in the crypto assets forever.
But I dont think, even if this transfer had completed as soon as it had been 
requested, that Miss W would have been able to make the investments that she is 
saying she intended. I am aware that Miss Ws new provider, H, decided to introduce 
the FCAs ban on purchasing new crypto asset investments much earlier than 6 
January  it introduced the ban for new investments on its platform on 29 October. 
That was four weeks before Miss W first told Scottish Widows that she wanted to 
transfer her pension savings. So I cannot agree that any delays on the transfer 
prevented Miss W from making crypto asset investments from her pension savings 
held with that provider.H has told Scottish Widows that Miss W didnt invest her pension savings when the 
transfer completed. They were held in a cash fund. So Scottish Widows has offered 
to pay compensatory interest to Miss W at 8% - in line with what we would normally 
expect when a consumer has been denied the use of their money. Given there is no 
indication that Miss W would have changed how she used the transferred pension 
monies if theyd been sent earlier I think that method of compensation is reasonable.
The compensation that Scottish Widows has offered is based on the transfer being 
expected to be completed by 8 December  that is 8 working days after the request 
was received. I think that would have been an entirely reasonably processing period 
here, and even more so given the delays that were caused by the discrepancies in 
Miss Ws address. So I think the compensatory interest that Scottish Widows has 
offered is fair.
I can see that Miss W spent a considerable amount of time in December 2020 
chasing the progress of her transfer. The information she was given by Scottish 
Widows wasnt always accurate, and things didnt progress as shed been led to 
expect. I have no doubts that would have been greatly upsetting for her and caused 
some inconvenience. And Miss W would also have likely incurred some costs for the 
telephone calls she needed to make. Scottish Widows has offered to pay Miss W 
£200 for her inconvenience, and a further £48 for the cost of her phone calls. I think 
that those offers are also reasonable in the circumstances here.
 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss W. She had seen what 
now appears to have been a highly beneficial investment opportunity. But Im not 
currently persuaded that she would have been able to make use of that investment 
opportunity even if there had been no delays to her transfer  regardless of whether 
I conclude any delays were justified. I dont think things progressed with the transfer 
as smoothly as they might have, but I think that the compensation Scottish Widows 
has already offered is fair.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Scottish Widows has said that it accepts my provisional findings. 
Miss W doesnt agree with my findings and has provided some additional comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Miss W has said I want to reassure her that 
I have read, and carefully considered, her entire response.
Miss W has said that she doesnt understand why I think she wouldnt have been able to 
invest in the crypto assets if the transfer had been made on time. She says that while funds 
were held in a SIPP most platforms allowed consumers a free hand to invest them as they 
chose. And she says that, given the positive outlook for Bitcoin, it is most likely that is how 
she would have invested her transferred pension savings.
Miss W says that, when Scottish Widows should have completed the transfer, there was still 
almost a month before crypto assets were banned by the FCA. So in that time she says she 
could have legally, ethically, and willingly traded in that asset. And by closely monitoring the 
performance of her investment she could have secured her profits as soon as its price began 
to fall.Miss W notes that Scottish Widows didnt complete the transfer until the day after the FCA 
ban on trading in crypto assets was introduced. She wonders if that timing was deliberate to 
prevent another British Citizen from being able to benefit from the increase in price of those 
assets. And Miss W says that the fact she didnt invest her transferred pension savings 
supports her testimony that the transfer had only been intended to allow an investment in 
crypto assets. Once that opportunity had been lost it is unsurprising that she didnt have an 
alternative investment lined up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about what Miss W has said, I am sorry to tell her that her response 
hasnt caused me to alter the findings I set out in my provisional decision. I think that 
decision provided the answers to the further comments she has made. But I repeat some of 
those findings below to provide some further clarity.
Miss W is correct that, generally, a SIPP would allow a consumer to direct the investments 
that they wished to make with their pension savings. There were some regulatory restrictions 
(for example not being able to invest in residential property) but until 2021 those restrictions 
didnt preclude investments in crypto assets. Those investments were only prohibited by the 
FCA from 6 January 2021 onwards.
But in many cases the providers of a SIPP were also able to place their own restrictions on 
the investments that might be held in the SIPP that they offered. For example some 
providers only allow certain investment funds to be held. 
Miss W asked Scottish Widows to transfer her pension savings to the SIPP that she held 
with the provider I have called H. And it is entirely correct that, in the lead up to the FCA 
announcement about its ban on crypto assets, H allowed investments of that nature to be 
held in the SIPPs that it administered. But that position changed on 29 October 2020.
At that time H decided that it would introduce, with immediate effect, the FCA ban on the 
purchase of crypto assets with the SIPPs that it administered. So, from that date, consumers 
who held their SIPP with H would not be able to purchase any new, or additional, crypto 
assets to be held within their SIPP. And so those restrictions would have also applied to 
Miss W.
Miss W didnt ask Scottish Widows to start the transfer of her pension savings until 
26 November. That is around four weeks after H stopped the purchase of new crypto assets 
for its retail customers. And so, despite the FCA deadline not yet having passed, Miss W 
wouldnt have been able to purchase crypto assets via the SIPP that she held with H. That 
would have been the case even if the transfer had been completed on the same day that it 
had been requested.
So whilst I entirely agree that Scottish Widows didnt complete the transfer as quickly as it 
should have, I cannot agree that the delay prevented Miss W from investing in crypto assets 
via the SIPP that she held with H. And so I dont think that Scottish Widows needs to take 
account of any potential investment returns when considering the compensation that should 
be paid for the delay.As I said in my provisional decision I understand how disappointing my decision is for 
Miss W. She had seen what now appears to have been a highly beneficial investment 
opportunity. But Im not persuaded that she would have been able to make use of that 
investment opportunity via the SIPP she held with H even if there had been no delays to her 
transfer. I dont think things progressed with the transfer as smoothly as they might have, but 
I think that the compensation Scottish Widows has already offered is fair.
Putting things right
Scottish Widows has offered to pay compensation to Miss W, for her inconvenience, the cost 
of her telephone calls, and the loss of use of her pension savings. Scottish Widows should 
pay the compensation it has already offered to Miss W, as set out below;
£200 for the inconvenience caused to Miss W by the incorrect information she was 
given on the progress of the transfer
£48 for the cost of phone calls made by Miss W
£209.14 compensatory interest (£167.31 net of income tax) for the delay to the 
transfer being completed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Ws complaint and direct Scottish Widows 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman