DRN-3750707
The complaint
Ms H complains that IG Markets Limited shouldnt have allowed her to open a Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) trading account. 
What happened
In January 2017 Ms H opened a CFD trading account with IG. As part of the account 
opening process, IG was required to assess whether the service she was looking to have 
access to was appropriate for her. In short, it needed to assess whether she had the 
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the service 
being demanded. 
In terms of her experience, she said that over the preceding three years she had traded 
shares and bonds 10 to 25 times, and had traded exchange traded derivatives more than 25 
times. She also said that she had traded over the counter derivatives more than 25 times 
and confirmed that she mostly traded by herself or with advice. She confirmed she had 
experience or qualifications that would assist her in understanding IGs services (although 
did not specify what) and confirmed that she was employed in a finance and banking role. 
She was also required to answer some knowledge questions about derivatives trading which 
she passed. 
As a result of the information which Ms H provided IG, it was satisfied that trading CFDs was 
appropriate for her and duly opened her account. Ms H traded frequently, on a variety of 
markets, until 2021. In 2021 and later in 2022, Ms H complained. In short, she said that the 
MetaTrader software she was using to trade was designed to make her lose her money. And 
she thought that given her vulnerabilities, including her mental health, she should never have 
been allowed to trade. 
IG looked into Ms Hs concerns, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said:
The MetaTrader 4 (MT4) software which Ms H was using to trade was a third-party 
trading platform  the prices were the same as those being offered on IGs platform 
and it offered additional functionality to IGs integrated software. 
IG explained that Ms Hs trades were the result of her own assessment of the market 
 and as a result, any losses she incurred were trading losses that she alone was 
responsible for. IG did not identify any issues or manipulation of prices. 
IG reaffirmed that Ms H had passed the appropriateness assessment in 2017 when 
she opened her account. At the time she had demonstrated she had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved, based on the answers 
she gave to the questions IG asked on the application. 
In addition, IG said that it displayed risk warnings throughout the account opening 
process  including a Risk Disclosure Notice and Ms H had confirmed that she had 
read this at the time. IG said that it had risk warnings in every email and 
communication that she was sent from IG, as well as on the top and bottom of its 
webpages. 
Ms H remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint, but didnt agree it should be upheld. 
He found there was insufficient evidence to conclude the MT4 platform she used to trade 
was set up to automatically take her money. He considered the appropriateness assessment 
which IG required Ms H to complete, and concluded that the questions IG asked, as well as 
the answers Ms H gave, were all consistent with someone that had sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks of trading CFDs. The investigator also considered Ms Hs 
complaint points that IG ought to have declined to open her account in view of her 
vulnerabilities  but the investigator said that IG did not have any evidence of her 
vulnerabilities at the time she opened her account, nor while she was trading. 
Ms H didnt agree. She said:
IG declined to recategorise her account as an elective professional one, and this 
supported her argument that she shouldnt be trading at all. In addition, the email in 
which IG told her she needed to provide more evidence to qualify for an elective 
professional account didnt have a risk warning. 
She sent a further email saying that she was employed by an FX trading firm, had 
knowledge of FX and therefore her account ought to be recategorized as elective 
professional. She said that IGs response to this email didnt have a risk warning. 
She said that her sudden increase in trading warrants ought to have prompted IG to 
investigate whether she had any vulnerabilities. 
She said that at the time she lacked capacity under relevant mental health legislation, 
and as a result she was unable to understand and agree to risk warnings and 
notices. She said that her condition put her at a disadvantage and she was not in a 
position to understand and agree to the terms of agreement. This meant that she 
also lacked capacity while she was trading, and this resulted in a change of 
behaviour in 2020 which ought to have prompted IG to suspect that she had some 
form of mental capacity limitation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Ive read Ms Hs detailed submissions and taken into account all the evidence she has 
provided. Some of the evidence is of a very personal nature, and I would like to express my 
sympathy to Ms H for the profoundly difficult circumstances shes found herself in as well as 
for the obvious challenges she has faced when managing her mental health. 
I would also like to make clear that whilst I have read and carefully considered everything Ms 
H has said during the course of the investigation, I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive not addressed every point she has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do 
that, but to instead focus on the key issues in her complaint. 
And whilst I have sympathy for Ms Hs situation, my role requires me to be impartial and 
make a decision with reference to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  it would 
not be fair to be critical of IGs conduct or to hold it responsible for Ms Hs trading losses 
without being satisfied that it has done something wrong. In terms of IGs assessment of whether trading CFDs was appropriate for Ms H, Im 
persuaded on balance that its assessment was fair and reasonable. It asked relevant 
questions about her experience and tested her knowledge via questions which she in the 
main answered correctly. Therefore, its conclusion that trading CFDs was appropriate was 
based on information that Ms H had given it and which it was entitled to rely on. And given 
the answers she gave about her knowledge and experience Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for IG to conclude that trading CFDs was appropriate for her because she had 
enough knowledge and experience to understand the risks. 
I can see Ms H feels strongly that IG declining to recategorise her as an elective professional 
client ought to mean that it was also wrong to conclude the account was appropriate  but 
those are entirely separate assessments. A retail client trading CFDs has regulatory 
protections which an elective professional client does not have  and it therefore is entirely 
reasonable for a consumer to pass one test and not the other. 
From that point on, Ms Hs account was execution only. In other words, she alone was 
responsible for deciding when to open and close trades, how much to deposit and how much 
to risk. She was also responsible for ensuring she understood any third-party software she 
was using, as well as being familiar with the various risk warnings which IG shared with her 
directly, and also displayed on its website. 
Ive considered Ms Hs comments about IGs warnings, and her evidence that some of its 
emails to her did not contain such warnings. I acknowledge that IG said all of the emails it 
sent Ms H had such warnings  and Im bound to agree that this isnt accurate, because Ive 
seen two emails which did not have such warnings. But in my view this is not relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
I say this because its clear to me that Ms H had access to all relevant warnings about her 
account  both at the outset, when she was sent IGs risk disclosure notice, and every time 
she logged into her account. For example, the risk disclosure notice explained that spread 
bets and CFDs are high risk financial products, which are not suitable for many members of 
the public. It also explained that investing in a CFD carries a high degree of risk because 
the gearing or leverage often obtainable means that a relatively small movement can lead to 
a proportionately much larger movement in the value of your investment and this can work 
against you as well as for you; it is possible to lose more money than your initial deposit. 
On IGs website it warned customers that Spread bets and CFDs are leveraged products 
and can result in losses that exceed deposits. And in subsequent years, when rules 
changed and providers were required to be even more explicit about the risks, IG displayed 
warnings such as: 
Spread bets and CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money 
rapidly due to leverage. 81% of retail investor accounts lose money when trading spread 
bets and CFDs with this provider. You should consider whether you understand how spread 
bets and CFDs work, and whether you can afford to take the high risk of losing your money.
The few emails where such warnings were not displayed were about her asking to be 
categorised as an elective professional client  these were administrative emails with an 
existing client which were merely discussing what requirements Ms H needed to satisfy. I 
dont agree that anything can be inferred from those specific emails not having risk warnings, 
nor do I think they make any difference to Ms Hs complaint. Overall, Im satisfied IG took all reasonable steps to ensure that Ms H was made aware of 
the risks of CFD trading and provided clear and relevant warnings to that effect. Im satisfied 
Ms H had enough information both when opening the account and subsequently to decide 
for herself whether she was prepared to accept the inherently high risk of trading CFDs.
The key aspect of Ms Hs complaint is whether IG ought to have been aware of her 
vulnerability sooner. 
Ms H has pointed to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on the fair treatment 
of vulnerable customers (FG21/1 Guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable 
customers). I agree it contains obligations on IG in relation to how it should treat its 
vulnerable customers  in addition to guidance on how to identify them. I note the guidance 
was introduced after Ms H opened her account, but Im satisfied it mainly contained 
guidance from the FCA about how firms ought to identify and treat vulnerable customers 
based on the existing rules and principles which firms ought to have been complying with 
already.
Ive taken into account this guidance carefully when assessing whether IG treated Ms H 
fairly, and Im satisfied it did what it was required to do. As the investigator also highlighted in 
his communications with Ms H, the key question is how IG couldve identified her as a 
vulnerable customer when she did not raise of any her circumstances with it at the time she 
opened her account or while she was trading. And the guidance clearly says that if a 
consumer does not disclose information so that it is not clear they may have additional 
needs, staff or customer service systems many not be able to respond. 
I acknowledge that Ms H may not have felt comfortable disclosing the extent of her personal 
issues with IG, and I agree that IG needed to ensure that its staff were trained and equipped 
to ensure that they picked up on any signs that Ms H was displaying that she may be a 
vulnerable customer. Ive seen the training that IG delivered to its staff about this. 
But in Ms Hs case, Im not persuaded there was sufficient information, either in the answers 
Ms H gave to IG when she opened her account, or the way she managed it, that meant that 
IG ought to have been aware that Ms H was vulnerable, or displaying characteristics which 
meant that she had undisclosed needs that IG needed to address or take into account.
Im not persuaded the methods she used to fund the account wouldve given IG pause to 
consider whether she had vulnerabilities that had not been disclosed. The guidance gives 
examples of types of behaviour which could indicate to a firm that a customer is vulnerable  
but its important to recognise the type of service being offered as well as the overall context. 
IG wasnt offering a bank account  it was offering a type of trading which most customers 
lose money on. Further, this is a type of trading that can cause degrees of stress and 
significant financial loss in a very short period of time. Its a type of service that varies 
significantly in the way that it is used, with some customers trading only from time to time or 
at specific points in the year, and other customers, like Ms H, trading significantly every day 
for prolonged periods of time  and lots of variations in between. 
Ive looked through Ms Hs trading history and whilst I can see she traded significant 
volumes, Im not persuaded theres anything in her trading which ought to have indicated to 
IG that she had a vulnerability or lacked capacity under the Mental Health Act. Further, I 
dont agree that the size of her losses were such that IG ought to have understood she was 
vulnerable  as Ive mentioned above, the majority of IGs customers lose money trading 
CFDs. 
And Ive seen insufficient other evidence which would have indicated to IG that Ms H had a 
vulnerability such that she was at a particular risk of harm that IG needed to take steps to mitigate  and instead Ive seen emails from her to IG asking to be recategorised as an 
elective professional client because she was employed as an FX trader. This was three 
years after she opened the account. By this stage Ms H had been trading for a considerable 
time with IG  and being asked to recategorise her account as an elective professional client 
would not have been unusual. 
So taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that in Ms Hs case there was any 
particular reason for IG to consider or decide to explore whether Ms H had a vulnerability 
which meant that she was at a greater risk of harm than its other customers. And as she 
didnt raise her circumstances with IG herself, Im sorry to say that Im not persuaded there 
was anything IG ought to have done to stop or limit Ms Hs trading activity. 
This means that I dont agree it would be fair and reasonable to ask IG to compensate Ms H 
for the trading losses shes incurred since opening her account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman