DRN-3999390
The complaint
Mr R complains as a representative of T, a business, about the handling of its claim by its 
commercial insurer, QIC Europe Limited and agents. References to QIC include its agents.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
T suffered an escape of water on its premises in January 2020, which caused significant 
damage and meant the business had to close. Mr R said a plumber accepted he had caused 
the leak and QIC appointed claims handlers, B, who provided dehumidifiers. Mr R said that 
after this the claim became protracted as it was investigated by QIC, and T was closed from 
January 2020 to mid-December 2021 when Ts premises were repaired. 
QIC said it was notified of the escape of water a week after it had occurred and five months 
after the policy started. B said Ts policy covers tenants improvements (£10,000), contents 
and business interruption, but the building was insured elsewhere so there was no cover 
from QIC for renovations.
T appointed Mr R as loss assessor and he said problems arose from Bs inexperienced loss 
adjuster. He said calls werent returned, emails ignored, and site meetings cancelled without 
notice. He said they were told in September 2020 the claim was back on track with business 
interruption payment agreed. But a new loss adjuster was appointed and although the rent 
part of the claim was paid at £22,000 no further payment was received until January 2021 
and this was less than previously agreed, with nothing for the reinstatement of the building.
B said it had intended to install dehumidifiers at Ts premises, but Mr R instructed a separate 
firm for this. B did then take responsibility for the drying out with agreement of the building 
insurer, which it said was completed by early March 2020. Mr R said the claim stalled after 
this point. B said a payment was authorised on the claim and it received the first list of 
contents from T in June 2020. B said an interim payment was made in August, followed by a 
final payment for the contents in September 2020. It offered T payment for nine months 
business interruption, based on its accountants assessment. 
T and its landlord decided to carry out substantial renovations, which B said were greater 
than the insured work and complicated the claim due to conflicting objectives. B said it 
couldnt use its own contractors to carry out improvements and didnt have control over the 
site or the timeframe, otherwise it could have finished its work in five months. It said the 
improvements couldnt be determined until the strip out of the premises and then the scope 
of building work had been finalised by the building insurer. It said it received the scope of 
work in October 2020 following the tender process for the renovations. It then needed to 
review this for improvement works to decide what costs it should pay. 
B said it found discrepancies between Ts lease and insurance policy which it investigated. It 
said that following revision of the building issues and lease, it offered payment in September, 
including business interruption until September 2020 so that T could move back and get the 
business operational. B also offered £10,000 for the tenant improvement works as T was 
significantly under insured. T rejected this offer of settlement as unfair. B said when it 
became aware that much of the work concerned improvements it increased the allowance for 
this by £90,000 by offsetting the limit against the unused cover for contents. B said it did this 
to assist T with the costs of the claim.  
B said the claim was mostly managed by the building insurers loss adjuster, who said that 
improvements constituted most of the work. B said it was told in November that T had 
arranged contractors based on authorisation given by the building insurers loss adjuster. B 
said it wasnt consulted about this and it was premature, but once it completed its 
assessment, it offered settlement of the claim on 17 January 2021. 
QIC paid T £60,000 in January 2021, which it said was partly for restoration of the building 
and partly for business interruption. It said T was entitled to only six and a half months cover 
as it was responsible for the delays. Mr R said payment was previously promised for the full 
period of nine months business interruption with a further three months to be considered 
together with rent arrears of £36,875 and increased material costs. He said as a direct result 
of Bs incompetence and significant delays T has suffered substantial losses.
T complained to B about its handling of the claim but said it didnt receive the response of 19 
February 2021. Bs response said details of all claim payments had been sent that month 
and of a final payment offered in settlement of all liabilities. B said without further information 
it wouldnt review the claim further. Mr R referred the complaint to our service outside of the 
time limit, but QIC didnt raise an objection to us considering the complaint. Mr R said QIC 
was in possession of correspondence which set out QICs responsibilities/position under the 
claim from an early stage.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said QIC had insured 
tenants improvements, contents and business interruption, but the building is owned and 
insured elsewhere. He said QICs response to the claim was timely and reasonable but 
slowed from March 2020 onwards. He didnt think QIC was at fault for this as T and its 
landlord wanted renovations which complicated matters, causing much of the delay.
The investigator said QIC didnt have control over the site and had to postpone the insured 
work until the building insurer completed strip out and finalised its scope of work. He said 
when QIC was told much of the work was tenants improvements, not covered by the 
buildings insurer, it progressed the claim. But T was underinsured for improvements, and so 
QIC offset the limit against Ts policy limit for contents to reduce Ts underinsurance.
Mr R disagreed and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. He said this should 
include Ts loss of revenue and increased cost of materials. He said B caused delays by 
poor communications; not understanding Ts responsibilities under the lease and delayed 
agreement about the apportionment of reinstatement costs between insurers. Mr R said QIC 
launched a further investigation into T at the start of 2021 which wasted another four weeks.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I said I intended to partly uphold the complaint and to require QIC 
to pay Ts business interruption for nine months (less the six and half months already paid).
I considered the delays that affected the claim, and the handling and payments for the 
reinstatement works and business interruption. I wanted to see if QIC had acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and treated T fairly. 
Mr R said most of the period of Ts closure was due to QICs failure to complete the claim in 
a timely manner and this cost T a prolonged loss of income. I thought that had the work been 
limited to reinstatement, as largely required by QIC in response to Ts claim, it would have been completed well within the two years taken. But Ts improvements, and the involvement 
of its landlords insurer concerning renovations including external works caused B to lose 
control of the claim and led to delays. I didnt agree with Mr R that the renovation work 
couldnt have interfered with the insured work that was QICs responsibility. I thought his 
conclusion ignored the degree to which the claim was affected by other parties and work 
outside of QICs control. 
When it became obvious that T had very limited cover for the tenants improvements it 
intended to carry out, QIC reapportioned cover from the unclaimed part of the contents cover 
to allow a much greater payment to T. Although Mr R says T appreciated this decision, he 
said it was outweighed by the delays. 
From my review, I didnt find QIC responsible for most of the delays though there were areas 
where it could have progressed the claim more effectively. B could have communicated and 
made payments more promptly and been clearer about what they covered. I also thought its 
replacement of the loss adjuster and abortive investigation at the start of 2021 and recovery 
from the third party held up progress, as did the time it took to investigate Ts lease. 
I thought B was entitled to complete these processes and accepted they held up progress. 
Mr R says the claim stalled due to Bs negligence. I thought the main reason was the 
arrangements for the additional work carried out by T and its landlords insurer. The covid 
lockdown also had an adverse effect on all building projects, which was outside QICs 
control. QIC had to wait for T's list of contents which took over five months and for the scope 
of works from the building insurer (in late October 2020) and then decide which works were 
covered by the claim. B complained to T in February 2021 that it had still not received the 
original estimates for how the tender documents were calculated.
QIC didnt want to start the insured work without agreement about respective responsibilities. 
I thought that was reasonable, but I didnt agree with Mr R that the delay in reaching this 
point was entirely the fault of QIC and B. The agreement between insurers was reached in 
November 2020 and Ive seen evidence that B pressed for this beforehand.  
Mr R said Ts main contractor withdrew due to non-payment by QIC. QIC had made an 
interim payment before this and was resolving the issue of insured and uninsured work, both 
of which the contractor was involved in. B said the contractor was appointed before it had 
the opportunity to assess the scope of work, and this led to delays. I think by this stage it 
was understandable that T wanted to progress the work. 
Mr R said B reneged on the previously agreed business interruption period of 12 months (the 
policy limit) and the sum of £94,000 (from January to September 2020 with an agreement to 
assess the remaining three months in December 2020). I didnt see a formal agreement, but 
it had been mentioned and B obtained an assessment of losses from its accountants. B did 
say to T that it, allowed the business interruption to be extended until September.  This 
meant QIC intended to pay T for nine months business interruption, but B then restricted 
this to six and half months on the basis that T had caused the delays. QIC applied the 
reduced period retrospectively and I thought this was unfair. 
 
I thought Bs estimate of five months to complete the insured work during the covid lockdown 
was probably unrealistic even without the additional work. Although I didnt think B caused 
most of the delays, it was responsible for those that I had described. I thought B saying it 
would pay for nine months business interruption was reasonable as I thought it would have 
taken that long to complete the insured work and this accorded with other significant escape 
of water claims I have seen from that time. I said it was fair for QIC to decline to cover 
business interruption for the period of renovations beyond September 2020. Had T decided to carry out this work outside of an insurance claim it would have had to bear the loss of 
profits that would have been involved for the period of the work.  
I thought T was entitled to place some reliance on QICs offer from September 2020, which 
lasted through to January 2021 when the payment was again described as interim. T said it 
was its intention to accept the payment on an interim basis and B confirmed in January 2021 
that a further business interruption payment had yet to be agreed. The payment of £60,000 
that followed was described as covering reinstatement and business interruption. 
Given that more time was taken dealing with the improvements than insured work I thought it 
was the responsibility of T and its landlords insurer to coordinate the project for all aspects 
of the work. From what Id seen, failures by QIC and its agents were outweighed by the lack 
of coordination of the works and by QICs decision to greatly increase the payment available 
for the improvements T wanted to make to its premises. This increased the cover T was 
entitled to from £10,000 to £100,000 and I thought this offset other failures of service by QIC 
and its agents referred to and any increased cost of materials or loss of goodwill by T. 
In conclusion, I could see how hard Mr R pressed B and QIC for answers to questions and 
payments for T. And I can see there were some delays, but overall this is a claim affected by 
improvements and renovation work carried on alongside the repairs and this was beyond 
QICs control.
I said that if Mr R disagrees, he should provide a detailed timeline of communications and 
events from the claim to show that delays were QICs responsibility. He should also provide 
information about the appointment of the main contractor for the non-insured work and how 
QICs agents were informed. And support his point that QIC possessed correspondence 
which would have set out QICs responsibilities/position under the claim from an early stage. 
QIC responded to the provisional decision by accepting the findings and agreed to pay the 
further business interruption that I had put forward.  
Mr R responded on behalf of T to say that additional work at the premises was at the behest 
of Ts landlords and within a different part of the building to that occupied by T. He said it 
was only external rendering and replacement of windows and was of much less value than 
the insured work and so T didnt feel it necessary to inform QIC. Mr R said the windows were 
replaced by November 2020 while agreement was sought by the parties to the insured work. 
Mr R acknowledged Ts delays in providing B with invoices and estimates for contents, but 
said up until June 2020 no one had any issues with the pace of the claim. Mr R said B failed 
to examine the lease properly in June 2020 and took far too long to resolve its issues. But he 
said T agrees that QICs reapportionment of cover was a fair offset against delays after 
February 2021. He said by QICs estimation of the reinstatement work T would have been at 
the limit of their business interruption under the policy and so it should pay for 12 months. 
Mr R said T believed that QICs loss adjuster intended to pay for business interruption of 12 
months as demonstrated by his request to QIC for a 12-month payment for Ts rent. He 
acknowledged that a lesser figure was agreed for rent to stay below Bs authorisation limit. 
He said a contemporaneous view of intentions towards business interruption should be 
taken not the hindsight view subsequently taken by QIC. The conclusion would be allowance 
of the full 12 months business interruption for T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reconsidered all of the issues and findings from my provisional decision. Having done 
so I remain of the view that settlement of the complaint should be as Ive set out within my 
provisional decision and for the reasons I have given. 
I suggested that Mr R provide a timeline of communications and events of the claim to show 
that delays were QICs responsibility. And information about the appointment of the main 
contractor for the non-insured work and how QICs agents were informed. And support his 
point that QIC has correspondence setting out its responsibilities under the claim from an 
early stage. But he hasnt done so.
Mr R has sent copies of emails that show the frustration with the claim loss adjusters slow 
progress between June and September 2020. And the consideration of Ts business 
interruption claim from October 2020.  
In terms of the slow progress of the claim I said this was due to more time being taken 
dealing with the renovations and improvements than the repairs. I think it was down to Ts 
agents and its landlords insurer to coordinate the project for all aspects of the work.
Mr R discounts this saying that a very limited amount of work was carried out not involving 
insured repairs, and only included windows and rendering. In Mr Rs previous summary of 
Ts complaint he said the renovations included replacement of window frames and 
casements, rendering and roof repairs involving scaffolding. QIC described the non-insured 
work as substantial. 
In my provisional decision I was referring to all of the work carried out at the premises. I have 
looked at this again in light of Mr Rs comments and I think that most of the work was in fact 
insured repairs and tenants improvements which QIC agreed to cover. The problems arose 
in that QIC were not involved in the tender and appointment of contractors by T for this work, 
before liability for the works had been established by B. This meant that valuable time was 
lost and B lost control of the site.
Having said this, I remain of the view that the claim was also mismanaged by QIC and its 
agents, but I have concluded that the greater delay arose from the contractors and the site 
being outside of QICs control. Additionally QIC had to wait for T's list of contents which took 
over five months and for the scope of works from the building insurer (in late October 2020) 
and then decide which works were covered by the claim.
I agree with Mr R that it took QIC too long to resolve lease and policy questions and this held 
up the claim from June 2020  the frustration with lack of progress is obvious. However, 
these questions were resolved in September 2020, and this is within the period of business 
interruption that I set out for compensation. 
Mr R said that payment of 12-months business interruption was QICs loss adjusters 
expressed intention at the time and should be paid as the loss adjuster requested this period 
for Ts rent claim. The fact is the loss adjuster negotiated a lesser figure to cover nine 
months rent and that is what was paid to T. This period of rent is equivalent to the period of 
business interruption I have recommended QIC cover for T.
Mr R said that even without the delays caused by B from June 2020 T would have reached 
the 12-month limit in the policy for business interruption. But in the Consideration of 
Business Interruption of October 2020 he advised it was expected that the repairs would be 
completed after a few months, and if the workers were not paid they may have left to find 
work elsewhere, which would result in a loss of trade once the business reopened. I recommended nine months for business interruption because I thought the insured repairs 
could have been completed in that time and that B had given T an expectation that it would 
pay this amount. I remain of the view that had the work been managed and coordinated 
properly it should have been completed in this time.
QIC increased the tenants improvement cover from £10,000 to £100,000 and I still think this 
offset other failures of service by QIC and its agents referred to and any increased cost of 
materials or loss of goodwill by T. 
Putting things right
In conclusion, I think that fair and reasonable redress to T for the delays which QIC and its 
agents were responsible is for QIC to pay the period of business interruption for T it initially 
offered. This is for nine months up until September 2020. QIC can deduct the period of about 
six and a half months business interruption it has already paid to T. However, it should add 
8% simple interest to this amount calculated from September 2020 up to the date it makes 
payment as the benefit of this money has been unfairly denied to T for this period. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require QIC Europe Limited to pay for Ts business interruption for nine months (less the six 
and half months already paid) according to the assessment of how this should be calculated 
within the policy, as follows:
The amount by which the Gross Profit during the Indemnity Period as a result of the 
Damage falls short of the Gross Profit which would have been received during the Indemnity 
Period had no Damage occurred [] less any sum saved during the Indemnity Period in 
respect of charges or Business expenses payable out of Gross Profit which cease or are 
reduced as a result of the Damage.
The amount calculated for business interruption should be paid together with interest at 8% 
simple from the date when the previous payment for business interruption was made to T to 
the date when the payment is made by QIC Europe Limited in respect of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman