DRN-4514900
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse her for money she lost as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
On 13 November 2023, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give 
both parties a chance to respond before I issued my final decision. That provisional decision 
forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
In July 2022, Mrs C came across an advert on a well-known social media platform. The 
advert suggested that a prominent financial journalist and broadcaster had been successfully 
trading in cryptocurrency and was offering advice about how other people could do the 
same. Mrs C clicked on the advert and provided her contact details by filling out a form.
The following day Mrs C was contacted by someone claiming to be a cryptocurrency broker. 
Unfortunately for Mrs C, the person who contacted her was actually a fraudster. They 
suggested that she should invest a small sum into cryptocurrency and, if that went well, she 
could use her profits to carry on investing.
Mrs C agreed to invest. She transferred an initial small payment to the account of a third 
party on 21 July 2022. Mrs C says she was able to see her deposit on a trading platform 
provided by the fraudsters. Her investment appeared to be doing well and she was able to 
withdraw her initial deposit of £215 back to her account within a week.  
Mrs C was then advised to open an account with, and transfer her money to, an FCA-
authorised Electronic Money Institution (EMI)  W. 
Mrs C opened an account with W and between 19 August 2022 and 7 October 2022 she 
made 8 payments totalling £41,200 from her Santander current account to her e-money 
account with W.    
 
From there she either used her W payment card to purchase cryptocurrency from a 
legitimate cryptocurrency provider (B), which she then passed on to the fraudsters, or she 
sent payments directly to third parties from her account at W. Its not clear whether the third 
parties were connected to the fraudsters or were individuals selling cryptocurrency. Mrs C 
says the fraudsters helped her make the payments, but she controlled the account at W.
Mrs C initially made two bank transfers from her Santander account to her account at W  
£1,000 and £4,000  on 19 August 2022. 
When Mrs C made the first payment of £1,000 to what was a new payee, Santander asked 
her the payment reason.  Mrs C selected transfer to own account.  She was also given a 
scam warning, which said:
Could this be a scam? If someone's contacted you, even saying they're Santander 
or the police, and said your account's at risk and you need to transfer your money to 
a 'safe account', or a new account in your name, this is a known scam. If this has 
happened to you, please cancel this payment now and call us immediately."
Mrs C then bought £5,000 of cryptocurrency from B and passed that on to the fraudster.
Mrs C says that she was able to monitor the performance of her investments on the trading 
platform and, as claimed, her investment grew significantly.
On or around 28 September 2022, Mrs C contacted the fraudsters and asked whether she 
could withdraw some of her profits. At this point she says she was told shed need to pay 
£5,700 to release her investment and a further £500 to process her Bitcoin. 
Mrs C says she did not find this particularly concerning, her understanding was that the 
growth in her investment would comfortably cover the fees due. So Mrs C transferred the 
money from her Santander account and from there she purchased £6,000 of Bitcoin and 
passed that to the fraudsters to cover the fees. Its unclear why Bitcoin to the value of £6,000 
rather than £6,200 (the amount she transferred to her account at W) was purchased.
A day later, the fraudsters told Mrs C that, to release her profits, she would need to pay an 
upfront tax fee of £15,000 to comply with tax evasion laws. Mrs C transferred £15,000 from 
her Santander account to her account with W. With that she bought £10,000 of 
cryptocurrency (presumably Bitcoin) by card which she passed to the fraudsters. She also 
transferred £5,000 to a third party directly. 
Later that day, after shed sent the money to the fraudsters, Mrs C was told that shed also 
need to pay an 8% processing fee. The fraudsters said that someone from B would call to 
confirm this fee. Mrs C spoke to someone claiming to be from B and they explained that 
most of the fees had, in fact, been paid to B, rather than to her broker. Mrs C transferred the 
money from her Santander account to W and from there to a third party by transfer.
I note that an 8% processing fee of £8,000 would require Mrs Cs initial investments (totalling 
£5,215) to be worth at least £100,000 on 29 September 2022. Mrs C, on the other hand, 
believed her investment, at its most valuable, to be worth around £76,000.
The following day, on 30th September 2022, Mrs C received another call from her broker. 
This time she was told shed need to pay a further £3,200 because the value of her 
investment had increased since the point shed first requested a withdrawal on 28 
September 2022. 
Mrs C says that increase appeared to be confirmed by what she could see on the trading 
platform she had access to. So, she agreed to make the payment  this time by purchasing 
and transferring cryptocurrency.
On 7 October 2022 the fraudsters instructed Mrs C to make further payments - £3,800 and 
£12,400 for processing fees. Its not clear why the fraudsters waited a week to make these 
further demands. Mrs C says she was assured that these were the final fees and she says 
she received an email seemingly from B, confirming that.
Mrs C made a £3,800 payment to W and from there, she used her card to purchase 
cryptocurrency of a similar value, on 7 October 2022. But when, on 10 October 2022, she 
attempted to make the final payment of £12,400, Santander flagged the payment for a 
security check and asked Mrs C to contact it. Mrs C called Santander and, during that call, 
explained that she was trying to make a payment to release her Bitcoin. Santander was able 
to deduce that shed been the victim of a scam. It asked her to attend a branch with 
identification. This table shows the transactions Mrs C made, or attempted to make, from her Santander 
current account:
Date Time Amount Recipient
21 July 2022 N/A £215 Unknown third 
party
28 July 2022 N/A £215 credit Credit
19 August 2022 17:00 £1,000 W
19 August 2022 17:55 £4,000 W
28 September 2022 18:10 £5,700 W
28 September 2022 18:27 £500 W
29 September 2022 10:20 £15,000 W
29 September 2022 16:42 £8,000 W
30 September 2022 12:36 £3,200 W
7 October 2022 N/A £3,800 W
10 October 2022 N/A £12,400* Not completed
*Mrs Cs representatives suggest this payment was for £12,300 and was attempted on 7 
October 2022, but Santanders records arent consistent with that claim. For ease, and as it 
has no impact on the outcome of the complaint, Ive referred to the payment as being 
attempted on 10 October 2022 in the rest of this decision. 
This table shows the payments Mrs C made from her e-money account with W:
Date Amount Type of 
transactionRecipient
19 August 2022 £5,000 Card purchase B
28 September 2022 £6,000 Card purchase B
29 September 2022 £10,000 Card purchase B
29 September 2022 £5,100 Transfer Unknown third 
party (1)
29 September 2022 £8,000 Transfer Unknown third 
party (2)
30 September 2022 £2,250 Card purchase B
30 September 2022 £1,020 Card purchase B
7 October 2022 £3,830 Card purchase B
Mrs C asked Santander to consider reimbursing her. She explained that, at the time she 
made the payments, shed recently become the main carer for her brother, who lacks mental 
capacity and part of the reason for investing was to pay for an operation he needed. 
Santander considered Mrs Cs claim. Among other things, it said (correctly) that the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (which might have 
otherwise required Santander to reimburse her losses) did not apply to the payments from 
Mrs Cs Santander account because they werent made to another person as the CRM 
Code requires. It suggested she contact W.
Mrs C referred the matter to our service. Her complaint was considered by one of our 
Investigators.  They thought Santander ought to have found the £15,000 payment Mrs C 
made to her W account on 29 September 2022 to be suspicious given the payments already 
made and it should have made further enquiries before making the payment.  If Santander 
had made further enquiries the scam would have come to light and Mrs C would not have 
incurred the losses she incurred from 29 September 2022 as a result of the scam.The Investigator didnt think that there should be any deduction from the amount awarded to 
Mrs C as they didnt think there was any reason for her to believe she was being scammed. 
So, the Investigator recommended that Santander refund the payments Mrs C made after 
and including the £15,000 payment, as well as pay Mrs C 8% simple interest per year on 
that amount from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
Mrs C accepted our Investigators recommendations, but Santander didnt agree. 
In summary, Santander said:
Mrs Cs loss did not take place from her Santander account, so it should not be 
responsible for reimbursing her.
The Investigator did not explain why Mrs C has not been directed to complain to W.
The recent Supreme Court judgement in the case of Philipp vs Barclays Bank Plc UK 
[2023] UKSC 25 confirmed that where a bank receives a payment instruction from a 
customer which is clear and leaves no room for interpretation and the customers 
account is in credit, the banks primary duty is to execute the payment instruction. 
This is a strict duty, and the bank must carry out the instruction promptly without 
concerning itself with the wisdom or risks of the customers payment decisions.
Mrs Cs account was in credit and there is no dispute that she authorised the 
payments.
The Confirmation of Payee CoP scheme showed that the account Mrs C was paying 
was held in her name.
Shed set up multiple payees in the past and, by the point of suggested intervention, 
had made four previous payments to W.
So the payment instruction was clear and without room for interpretation. There was 
no reason for it to be concerned about the payment.
It acted in line with industry standards when making the payment and cannot be held 
responsible for it.
In addition to the specific points above, Santander have shared some broader concerns 
about its liability for payments of this nature. Ive summarised those arguments below.
There was no legal duty on it to protect customers from financial harm from fraud. 
Neither do any of the rules, standards and guidance issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority place such a duty on it.
It does not accept that the British Standards Institute PAS 17271 (the BSI Code1) 
places any duty on it either. 
1 British Standards Institutes Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud and 
financial abuse  Code of PracticeThe CRM Code now represents good industry practice, including the obligation to 
provide warnings and, where appropriate, intervene when it identifies a scam risk. 
But the CRM Code specifically excludes this type of payment, as will the forthcoming 
mandatory reimbursement scheme the Payment Systems Regulator (the PSR) is 
currently consulting on. 
So, asking it to reimburse payments that fall outside of those schemes goes beyond 
what could be considered good industry practice and regulatory expectations.
It questions whether 8% interest, rather than the interest rate that applied to the 
originating account is appropriate. 
The case has now been passed to me to consider afresh. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I am required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having done so, I have reached a different provisional conclusion to the Investigator about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and about what 
Santander should do to put things right.
For the reasons I shall set out below, I am minded to conclude Santander should have made 
further enquiries prior to processing the £15,000 payment on 29 September 2022 and, if it 
had done so, the scam would have come to light and the losses Mrs C incurred after that 
payment would have been prevented. But I am also satisfied that in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Mrs C should bear some responsibility (50%) for the losses she suffered from the 
time of the £15,000 payment. 
I shall explain why.
The starting point under the relevant regulations (in this case, the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017) and the terms of Mrs Cs account is that she is responsible for payments 
shes authorised herself. And, as the Supreme Court has recently reiterated in Philipp v 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, banks generally have a contractual duty to make payments in 
compliance with the customers instructions.
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks when making payments.  Among other things, it said, in summary:
The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions. 
The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its consumers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of APP fraud; but the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction 
was not the same as being under a duty to do so.   
In this case, Santanders June 2022 terms and conditions gave it rights (but not obligations) 
to:
1. Refuse any payment instruction if it reasonably suspects it relates to fraud or any 
other criminal act.  
2. Delay payments while fraud prevention checks take place and explained that it might 
need to contact the account holder if Santander suspects that a payment is 
fraudulent. It said contact could be by phone.   
So, the starting position at law was that:
Santander was under an implied duty at law to make payments promptly.
It had a contractual right not to make payments where it suspected fraud. 
It had a contractual right to delay payments to make enquiries where it suspected 
fraud.
It could therefore refuse payments, or make enquiries, where it suspected fraud, but 
it was not under a contractual duty to do either of those things.
Whilst the current account terms did not oblige Santander to make fraud checks, I do not 
consider any of these things (including the implied basic legal duty to make payments 
promptly) precluded Santander from making fraud checks before making a payment.  
And, whilst Santander was not required or obliged under the contract to make checks, I am 
satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements  
and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, it should fairly and reasonably 
have been on the look-out for the possibility of APP fraud and have taken additional steps, or 
made additional checks, before processing payments in some circumstances  as in practice 
all banks, including Santander, do (and as Santander did in fact do in this case when Mrs C 
attempted to make the final payment on 10 October 2022). 
I am mindful in reaching my conclusions about what Santander ought fairly and reasonably 
to have done that:
FCA regulated banks are required to conduct their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers (Principle 6)2.  
Banks have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements 
and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which has applied since 2001). 
Over the years, the FSA, and its successor the FCA, have published a series of 
publications setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found 
when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime, including 
2 Since 31 July 2023 under the FCAs new Consumer Duty package of measures, banks and other 
regulated firms must act to deliver good outcomes for customers (Principle 12), but the circumstances 
of this complaint pre-date the Consumer Duty and so it does not apply. various iterations of the Financial crime: a guide for firms.3. 
Regulated banks are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. Those 
requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
The October 2017, BSI Code, which a number of banks and trade associations were 
involved in the development of, recommended firms look to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  Not all firms signed the BSI Code, but in my 
view the standards and expectations it referred to represented a fair articulation of 
what was, in my opinion, already good industry practice in October 2017 particularly 
around fraud prevention, and it remains a starting point for what I consider to be the 
minimum standards of good industry practice now.    
Santander is also a signatory of the CRM Code.  This sets out both standards for 
firms and situations where signatory firms will reimburse consumers. The CRM Code 
does not cover all authorised push payments (APP) in every set of circumstances 
(and it does not apply to the circumstances of these payments), but I consider the 
standards for firms around the identification of transactions presenting additional 
scam risks and the provision of effective warnings to consumers when that is the 
case, represent a fair articulation of what I consider to be good industry practice 
generally for payment service providers carrying out any APP transactions.  
Overall, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional warnings, before 
processing a payment  as in practice all banks do (and Santander did in fact do in 
this case on 10 October 2022).
Have been mindful of  among other things  common scam scenarios, the evolving 
fraud landscape (including for example the use of multi-stage fraud by scammers) 
3 For example, both the FSAs Financial Crime Guide at 4.2.5G and the FCAs 2015 Financial crime: 
a guide for firms gave examples of good practice in relation to investment fraud saying: 
A bank regularly assesses the risk to itself and its customers of losses from fraud, including 
investment fraud, in accordance with their established risk management framework. The risk 
assessment does not only cover situations where the bank could cover losses, but also where 
customers could lose and not be reimbursed by the bank. Resource allocation and mitigation 
measures are informed by this assessment. 
A bank contacts customers if it suspects a payment is being made to an investment fraudster. 
A bank has transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud. 
Investment fraud subject matter experts help set these rules.and the different risks these can present to consumers, when deciding whether to 
intervene.
Should Santander have fairly and reasonably made further enquiries before it processed Mrs 
Cs payments?
Santander did contact Mrs C on 10 October 2022 when she attempted to transfer £12,400 to 
her account with W. This resulted in Mrs C realising shed fallen victim to a scam. Ive 
thought carefully about whether Santander should have intervened any earlier.  
Whilst I have set out in detail in this provisional decision the circumstances which led Mrs C 
to make the payments from her Santander current account and the process by which that 
money ultimately fell into the hands of the fraudster, I am mindful that Santander had much 
less information available to it upon which to assess whether any of the payments presented 
an increased risk that Mrs C might be the victim of a scam.
So, I have considered the steps Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have taken into 
account with only the more limited information it had.
Santander would not have had any reason or basis to connect the £215 payments made 
from and into her account in July 2022 to the payments Mrs C made later to W from mid-
August 2022 onwards. 
Nor in my view should Santander fairly and reasonably have taken further steps than it did 
when Mrs C made the first two transfers of £1,000 and £4,000 to her account with W on 19 
August 2022. 
Whilst those payments involved a new payee and were payments to an account with an 
Electronic Money Institution (which are reporting increasing instances of customers being 
scammed, including as a consequence of multi-stage scams often involving cryptocurrency), 
I think Santander could reasonably take some comfort (at least initially) from the fact that: 
The payments were being made to an account in Mrs Cs name  as confirmed by 
Confirmation of Payee.
Mrs C indicated when making the first payment that she was transferring the money 
to her own account.
Mrs C was not deterred by the safe account warning Santander provided  an 
example of a scam associated with payments to what the consumer believes is an 
account in their own name.   
In addition, the payments were not of significant amounts and represented only a small part 
of her current account balance which stood at over £30,000 at the time.   
Similarly, when Mrs C made the next two payments of £5,700 and £500 on 28 September 
2022, I am not persuaded Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have done more than it 
did.
As before: the payments were made to an account in Mrs Cs own name, were for similar 
amounts to the previous payments and represented only a small part of her current account 
balance.
 
In addition, several weeks had passed between the payments on the 19 August 2022 and 
the payments on 28 September 2022, which may have provided some additional assurance 
to Santander that Mrs C was making the payments to her W account in ordinary 
circumstances rather than as a step in a multi-stage scam.  The payments would appear to have been  as Santander says  to what was becoming an established payee, although as 
with most payments it could not rule out the possibility of a scam entirely.
But when Mrs C made another more sizeable payment of £15,000 on 29 September 2022 to 
her account with W the following morning, I am satisfied Santander ought fairly and 
reasonably to have identified from the information available to it that there might be 
increased risk associated with the payment and, in those circumstances it should fairly and 
reasonably have made further enquiries.
I accept the £15,000 payment was being made to an account in Mrs Cs name and by that 
time she had made four payments to the same account and the account would on the face of 
things have appeared to Santander to have been an established account. But the £15,000 
payment was a significantly larger payment than Mrs C had made from her current account 
in the previous year, and it was significantly larger than the payments Mrs C had made to 
her account with W up to that point.  Importantly, it was also the third separate payment Mrs 
C had made to her W account in a 17-hour period, having previously sent over £6,000 to the 
account the previous evening. Mrs Cs account had also been significantly depleted by this 
point, having maintained a fairly consistent balance over the previous year. 
In my view this combination of circumstances ought fairly and reasonably to have led 
Santander to make additional enquiries before making the payment to establish the 
circumstances in which Mrs C was making what had become an out of character series of 
payments involving a large amount of money in a short period to an account with an EMI  a 
pattern of activity that could be consistent with certain types of scam, notwithstanding the 
payments were being made to an account in Mrs Cs own name. 
In reaching my view that Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have made further 
enquiries, I consider Santander ought to have been mindful of the potential risk to Mrs C of 
multi-stage fraud  whereby victims are instructed to move funds through one or more 
legitimate accounts held in the customers own name to a fraudster.  The use of and risks to 
consumers of multi-stage fraud were well known to banks in September 2022. 
Whilst I am satisfied  and my provisional conclusion based on the evidence and arguments 
presented so far is that  Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have made enquiries 
before making the £15,000 payment, I recognise (as I have set out above) that there were 
features of the pattern of payments and events prior to the £15,000 payment which pointed 
against a scam risk, consequently, the question of whether Santander should fairly and 
reasonably have intervened before the £15,000 payment is not a straightforward one.
In contrast, when Mrs C made the next £8,000 payment, the possibility that there might be a 
scam was significantly increased and that possibility should, in my view, have been very 
clear to Santander.  By that stage, she was attempting a fourth payment to W in under 24 
hours and two significant payments on the same day within a few hours. Whilst there may 
have been legitimate reasons why Mrs C was making a series of payments in a short period 
to an e-money account, I am satisfied Santander ought to have recognised the enhanced 
scam risk. 
 
 If Santander had made further enquiries before the £15,000 payment, would that have 
prevented the losses Mrs C incurred after that point?
Santander hasnt made any submissions in relation to that question, but I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs C wouldnt have made further payments to the fraudster if Santander 
had intervened. When Santander did eventually speak to her, she was open and honest about what she was 
doing  paying fees in order to release her Bitcoin. Santander immediately recognised that 
she was falling victim to a scam then and, given that the circumstances were broadly the 
same when she was making the £15,000 payment (also for reasons Santander would have 
recognised as implausible), I think the scam would have come to light then too. 
Should Santander be fairly and reasonably held responsible for Mrs Cs loss?
In reaching my decision about what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account that 
Mrs C transferred the money to an account in her own name, rather than directly to the 
fraudster, so she remained in control of her money after she made the payments from her 
Santander account, and it took further steps before the money was lost to the fraudsters.
But for the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied that it would be fair to hold Santander 
responsible for Mrs Cs losses (subject to a deduction for Mrs Cs own contribution). As I 
have explained, the potential for multi-stage scams ought to have been well known to 
Santander and as a matter of good practice Santander should fairly and reasonably have 
been on the look-out for payments presenting an additional scam risk including those 
involving multi-stage scams. Im satisfied Santander should fairly and reasonably have made 
further enquiries before the £15,000 payment and, if it had, it is more likely than not that the 
scam would have been exposed and Mrs C would not have lost any more money. In those 
circumstances I am satisfied it is fair to hold Santander responsible for Mrs Cs loss.      
I have also taken into account that the payments were made to a regulated business  W, 
and Mrs C might potentially have a claim against W in respect of its actions (although W is 
not a party to this complaint and so I make no finding about its role here).  
Whilst the dispute resolution rules (DISP) give me the power (but do not compel me) to 
require a financial business to pay a proportion of an award in circumstances where a 
consumer has made complaints against two financial businesses about connected 
circumstances, Mrs C has not referred a complaint about W to me and DISP does not 
empower me to instruct Mrs C to make or refer a complaint to me about another business.     
I am required to consider the complaint in front of me. I have found that Santander did not 
act fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this case. And whilst it is a possibility that 
Mrs C may have cause to complain against W, I am not persuaded it would be fair to reduce 
the award solely for that reason. Mrs C is entitled to choose to complain only about 
Santander and I am satisfied that Santander could have prevented the losses she suffered if 
it had acted fairly and reasonably.   
I have also taken into account Santanders comments about the PSRs proposed mandatory 
reimbursement scheme, which  as currently proposed  would not require Santander to 
reimburse Mrs C. The PSRs proposals are not yet in force and are not relevant to my 
decision about what is fair and reasonable in this complaint.  But I do not consider the fact 
that the PSR does not propose to make it compulsory for payment service providers to 
reimburse consumers who transfer money to an account in their own name as part of a 
multi-stage fraud, means that Santander should not compensate Mrs C in circumstances 
when it failed to act fairly and reasonably, as I have found was the case here. 
Should Mrs C bear any responsibility for her losses?
Ive thought about whether Mrs C should bear any responsibility for her loss. In doing so, Ive 
considered what the law says about contributory negligence, as well as what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. I understand there were sophisticated aspects to this scam. Mrs C believed that the 
investment was promoted by a public figure and was given access to a trading platform, 
which I accept might have seem convincing to her. In addition Mrs C was able to withdraw 
her initial deposit which would have reassured her and given the proposed investment the 
cloak of credibility. Im also mindful of her difficult personal circumstances at the time (though 
theres no indication that Santander were).
Nevertheless, by the time Mrs C came to make the £15,000 transaction she was already 
making a third payment in order to release her investment. While I accept the reasons for the 
first two payments might have seemed reasonable to someone with little experience of 
investing or cryptocurrency, the £15,000 payment was supposedly for a tax liability. Id 
reasonably expect Mrs C to have some understanding of how, and to whom, tax is properly 
paid (and her Santander statements indicate she did). Im satisfied Mrs C should reasonably 
have been concerned by the repeated and seemingly unexpected demands for money, 
despite the profitability of her investment. But it doesnt appear that Mrs C made any 
enquiries into the legitimacy of this request and, I suspect, by this point, she was simply 
paying money out of the hope that shed be able to access her investment. 
In addition, the magnitude of the increase in value of her original investment between 19 
August 2022 and 28 September 2022 ought to have alerted Mrs C to the possibility that 
something might be amiss, especially given the repeated demands for unexpected fees. The 
returns were simply too good to be true.
So, I think Mrs C did have a role to play in what happened and I think that the amount 
Santander should pay to her in compensation should fairly and reasonably be reduced to 
reflect that role. Given how serious I think Mrs Cs concerns about the legitimacy of the 
investment ought reasonably to have been, I think that a fair deduction is 50%.
Could Santander have done anything else to recover Mrs Cs money?
As the funds went to an account in Mrs Cs name before being converted into cryptocurrency 
and sent to the fraudsters, it could not have been recovered by Santander. Despite this, 
Santander did attempt to recover Mrs Cs funds but it was informed by W that no money 
remained.
Conclusions
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I think Santander should refund 50% of the 
payments Mrs C made from 29 September 2022. As I have set out above, in total there were 
four payments with a combined value of £30,000. So Santander should pay Mrs C £15,000. 
I think that Santander should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement. It argues that the originating account rate 
would be more appropriate. I disagree. Mrs C has been deprived of the use of this money for 
over a year and whilst the money was held in her current account prior to the transfers, she 
may have used it in a variety of ways if it had remained available to her. I think 8% simple is 
a fair interest rate in those circumstances.
If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
  My provisional decision
I am provisionally minded to uphold in part this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mrs C:
-50% of the four completed payments made from 29 August 2022  a total of £15,000.
-8% simple interest per year on each payment from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement. 
Mrs C accepted my provisional decision. Santander continued to disagree. In summary, it 
said:
Proper consideration of regulatory expectations and requirements, as well as good 
industry practice, should not result in a conclusion that it is fair and reasonable to 
hold it responsible for Mrs Cs loss.
While it acknowledges the application of PRIN it must also take into account its legal 
obligations to Mrs C and the rules in the FCA handbook.
SYSC 3.2.6R and other AML requirements all relate to the risk of Mrs C using her 
account to launder funds, rather than forming the basis of a requirement to protect 
her from the risk of fraud.
SYSC 3.2.6R is also qualified by reasonableness and there is no expectation that it 
should or could identify and prevent every payment that carries risk of being 
associated with a scam.
My provisional decision fails to take into account: 
a) The need to strike a balance between taking reasonable measures to detect fraud 
and its legal obligations under the PSR 2017 and common law. 
b) Its fraud detection systems, in line with the BSI Code and CRM Code, are designed 
to mitigate the risk of fraud, there is no expectation on it to detect and prevent every 
transaction that turns out to be fraudulent.
c) The fact that its fraud detection systems have to be carefully calibrated to ensure that 
payments are not interrupted to a disproportionate degree, taking into account the 
number of payments it processes, particularly own account transfers.
d) The fact that the payment went to another FCA authorised firm is key to deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. W is subject to the same FCA principles, 
AML requirements and good industry practice as Santander is. 
There are genuine differences between the bank sending funds to a customers own 
account and a firm sending money directly to a fraudster. It processes very significant 
volumes of own account transfers and only a very small proportion turn out to be 
fraudulent. And, while it does have strategies to prevent this kind of fraud, it must 
have regard for the level of risk this kind of payment presents.
While it accepts that multi-stage fraud of this nature is on the rise, it cant be 
expected to detect this kind of fraud to the degree suggested in my provisional 
decision.
W had far more information on which to base a risk assessment of the payments 
than it did, so it was far better placed to meaningfully intervene in the transactions.
It again reiterates that both the CRM and upcoming PSR scheme have consciously 
excluded payments of this nature and, it feels, a customer would have no legal basis 
on which to recover funds from it. It argues that the exclusion of this type of payment 
from both schemes is relevant and should be taken into account, particularly as the 
PSR scheme was an opportunity for both the government and Payment Systems 
Regulator to extend protections to this type of fraud, if they felt it was the right thing 
to do. Its unclear why I havent exercised my discretion under DISP 3.5.2 to inform Mrs C 
that it might be appropriate to complain against W.
If I decide that the complaint should be upheld, despite its further submissions, it 
agrees that there should be a deduction to the amount Mrs C is reimbursed to take 
into account her role in what happened. It made some additional points to support 
this view and argues that there should be a deduction of at least 50%.
The interest award I recommended does not reflect available interest rates at the 
time of the scam or the position taken by the courts in relation to interest. The award 
represents a windfall to Mrs C.
While it accepts that she might have used the money in a variety of ways, she would 
not have been able to obtain the recommended interest rate through any standard 
savings product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Santanders further submissions carefully but they dont persuade me to 
reach a different decision. Ive explained in some detail in my provisional decision why I 
thought that Santander should, fairly and reasonably, be responsible for Mrs Cs loss and I 
have little to add to what Ive already said.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that the fact the payments were identifiably going 
to an account held in Mrs Cs name at another FCA-authorised firm was an important factor 
when deciding the level of risk the payments presented. I explained that Santander could 
have taken some comfort from that fact and I carefully weighed up the risk the payments 
presented against the knowledge (and lack of knowledge about the eventual destination of 
the funds) that Santander had. I did not suggest that Santander could or should detect and 
prevent every fraudulent payment and I acknowledge the balance it needs to strike between 
preventing fraud and not unduly inconveniencing customers. Ive explained why, in this case, 
fairly and reasonably and taking into account that neither the CRM Code nor the PSRs 
mandatory reimbursement scheme (as currently proposed) would cover these payments, I 
dont think Santander got that balance right. I dont have anything further to add on this.
DISP 3.5.2, only gives me the powers to inform Mrs C it might be appropriate to complain 
against another respondent (and I suspect shes well aware that she could complain about 
W). It does not compel me to do this and it certainly doesnt allow me to compel Mrs C to 
refer a complaint about W instead of, or as well as, her complaint against Santander. 
Finally in relation to interest, while Mrs C may not have been able to obtain a savings 
account with a similar rate of interest at the point these payments were made, my interest 
award takes into account the overall impact of being deprived of those funds and that Mrs C 
may have utilised the money in ways other than saving it. 
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings, as 
set out above.
My final decision
I uphold in part this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs C:
- 50% of the four completed payments made from 29 August 2022  a total of £15,000.- 8% simple interest per year on each payment from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman