DRN-3443387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Gold and Premier accounts, that were sold in January 2002 and October 2011, respectively.
Mr and Mrs K say the accounts were mis-sold as Lloyds persuaded them to take out the 
accounts. They say that the account benefits never suited them as they already had 
breakdown cover and always purchased single trip cover for trips abroad. Mr K says that he 
was applying for a loan and says that it seemed to him that if he didnt accept the advice to 
take out a packaged account, he wouldnt get the loan.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the accounts had 
been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators findings, and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also be helpful to explain that 
where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, I have to decide what I think most 
likely happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered everything, 
Im unable to say that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ive started off by considering whether Mr and Mrs K were given a fair choice. I note that 
prior to the sale of the Gold account, Mr and Mrs K held a fee-free account. So when they 
agreed to the Gold account, I think they did so in the knowledge that fee-free accounts were 
generally available to them. In relation to the sale of the Premier account I think its likely that 
Mr K wouldve stuck with the cheaper Gold account, rather than agree to an even more 
expensive account, if he thought that he was somehow obliged to have a packaged account, 
but didnt actually want one.
Mr K says that he was applying for a loan at the time he took out the Gold account. Mr K and 
Mrs K say that they were led to believe that Mr K wouldnt get the loan if he didnt agree to 
upgrade their account. However, I cant see any evidence to show that he obtained any 
lending with Lloyds around the time of either sale  so what Mr and Mrs K says seems 
unlikely to be the case. I note Mr K says that the lending was taken out through a third party 
linked to Lloyds, however Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that this was actually taken 
out around the time the Gold account was sold to Mr and Mrs K. On the contrary, Mr K says 
this loan was taken out in the year following the upgrade. I can also see that one of the Gold 
account features was that it provided reduced interest rates on loans. So even if it is the 
case that Mr K did discuss his borrowing needs during the sale, I think its just as likely that 
the Gold account was sold to Mr and Mrs K because of the potential savings Mr K could 
obtain, should he take out a loan through Lloyds. 
So based on everything I have seen, I dont think its likely that Lloyds did mislead Mr and 
Mrs K into thinking that the only way to obtain lending was by upgrading their account. As 
such, I think that Mr and Mrs K were in all likelihood given a fair choice in agreeing to the 
packaged accounts.
Lloyds recommended both accounts to Mr and Mrs K. Mr and Mrs K seem to be under the 
impression that it was mis-sold because Lloyds persuaded them to take out the accounts, 
even though they had not initially set out to upgrade their account. But just to be clear, 
theres generally nothing wrong in Lloyds proactively selling products to its customers. 
However, when recommending an account that incudes insurance benefits, Lloyds is 
required to make sure that the account is a reasonable fit for the consumers circumstances 
at the time.
At the time, the Gold packaged account cost £8 per month, and provided benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, card protection, 120 day purchase protection, extended warranty 
cover, travel accident insurance and accidental death benefit. It also provided other benefits 
such as a £100 interest free overdraft, with special rates on overdrawn balances above that 
amount (up to the agreed limit), as well as discounted rates on Gold service loans, higher 
interest on Gold saver account and commission free travel money  amongst other benefits.
I understand Mr and Mrs K occasionally travelled, so I think they wouldve been able to make 
use of the Worldwide travel cover included with the account. Mr and Mrs K say that the cover 
wasnt suitable as they often went on action holidays. However, the travel cover that came 
with the account could be upgraded to include winter sports cover  so I cant say that the 
policy was necessarily unsuitable for them, as they couldve relied on the travel cover that 
came with their account and not have to buy standalone cover. I can also see that they were 
regularly using their overdraft around the time the Gold account was sold to them. So I think 
they also wouldve been able to benefit from the overdraft benefits that were included with 
the account  as well as the potential savings they could make, if they did take out a loan 
with Lloyds. As such, I think that Lloyds recommendation was not unreasonable.
When the Premier account was sold, it cost £25 per month, and provided worldwide travel 
insurance (including family and winter sports), AA breakdown cover (roadside assistance, 
relay, home start, stay mobile, accident management service), mobile phone insurance, card 
protection and home emergency cover. It also included a £500 fee-free overdraft with 
preferential rates on overdrawn balances above that amount (up to the agreed limit), as well 
as ID Aware, Save What Matters, access to an Advantage saver account and Premier Share 
dealing service.
Mr K says that he already had many of the insurance products in place. However, it looks 
like he chose to cancel some of these and rely on the cover provided by the account. For 
example, I can see he registered phones and made a large number of breakdown claims on 
the products provided by the account. So it seems that the Premier was a good fit for his 
circumstances and Mr K was able to make substantial use for some of the benefits. And 
whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K may not have needed all of the products on both of the 
packaged accounts, they were sold as a package and therefore they were unable to pick 
and choose what they came with.
As well as making sure that the accounts were a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs K, Lloyds also 
had to make sure that Mr and Mrs K were given important information about the accounts, 
so that they could decide for themselves that they were worth taking out.
When selling the accounts, I think its likely that Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs K some information 
about the accounts. Afterall, I think its unlikely they wouldve agreed to accounts that 
incurred a monthly fee unless they were told about some of the main features of the accounts. This is further reflected in the fact that Mr K was aware of how to register phones 
on the mobile phone insurance, and also how to make a claim on the breakdown cover.
However, due to the lack of evidence, I appreciate that its possible that Mr and Mrs K may 
not have been given all of the information they shouldve been given during the sales. But 
having said that, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs K wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the accounts, had they been given more information about them. I also note 
that Mr K says that Mrs K wasnt present during the sale of the Gold account. But as the 
account was a joint account, Mrs K didnt need to be present at the sale, as either account 
holder is able to make such changes to the account, such as upgrading or downgrading the 
account. 
So having taken everything into account, Im unable to say that either of the packaged 
accounts were mis-sold. I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight Mr and Mrs K may 
now regret agreeing to the accounts, or perhaps feel that they ended up being poor value for 
money. But that in itself doesnt mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold them when it did.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Gold and Premier accounts were 
mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman