DRN-4446584
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (Aegon) delayed the transfer of her other 
pensions to it, during which time the values declined and caused her inconvenience and 
distress in chasing progress. 
What happened
Mrs A wanted to transfer two pension plans from previous employments to her current Group 
Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) with Aegon. Ill refer to the plans she wanted to transfer as 
ceding scheme A or B as necessary. She called Aegon on 15 February 2023 saying she 
wanted to forward documents from the ceding schemes for it to complete and return to her. 
She would then liaise with the ceding schemes. Mrs A says the call handler didnt seem sure 
of the procedure but said to send the forms with a covering letter, which she did the same 
day. Aegon says it received on 22 February 2023. It isnt disputed that this wasnt the correct 
procedure.
Unfortunately, Aegon then misunderstood Mrs As request. It wrote back to her the same day 
enclosing different documents that would enable her to transfer her Aegon GPPP out to 
another pension provider. Following a lengthy illness, Mrs A called Aegon on 12 May 2023 
saying it hadnt done as shed asked and hadnt sent the forms back to her. Aegon now said 
the correct process was for it to treat this as an execution only transfer as it normally only 
dealt through financial advisers. It ran through this process and said it would send her a form 
to sign and once returned would request the transfers from the ceding schemes via the 
Origo electronic transfer system. 
Mrs A checked with the ceding schemes. She says ceding scheme A said it didnt use the 
Origo system and needed paper forms completed by her and Aegon. She called it on 15 
May 2023 and asked where the original documents shed sent it were. Aegon then said it 
wouldnt complete ceding arrangements paperwork (which was incorrect) but said it would 
see if an exception could be made, but a manager confirmed it couldnt be. Mrs A said she 
wanted her documents back even if Aegon wouldnt complete them. 
Aegon said it didnt know if the documents had been retained or destroyed after being 
scanned. Mrs A said that wasnt reasonable and she wanted them back. She decided to 
make a complaint the same day (15 May) by email about the failure to deal with her original 
request properly and Aegons refusal to complete the paper forms. Aegon recorded a 
complaint and Mrs A sent further emails the next day and Aegon logged further complaints.
On 17 May 2023 Aegon emailed Mrs A illustrations and various documents for the transfers 
to be made to it. Her employer then also emailed Aegon over the transfer process and a 
further complaint was recorded. On 22 May 2023 Aegon provided a final response upholding 
Mrs As complaint. It said it had given her incorrect information when it responded to her on 
22 February 2023, and that it did complete paper transfer forms where required. It said it 
was looking into whether her original forms had been retained and that these would be 
returned if it had them. It offered Mrs A £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. She said this wasnt adequate and Aegon increased its offer to £400. 
Aegon said it would use a copy of the forms to complete the transfers to it, but that it still 
needed its own form back from Mrs A to proceed. These were returned by email on 25 May 
2023, with Aegon confirming receipt on 2 June 2023. Mrs A replied saying shed asked for 
the forms to be returned so she could liaise with the ceding schemes as one didnt use the 
Origo system. Aegon wrote to both ceding schemes on 5 June 2023 requesting the transfers 
and sent Mrs A copy of all the documents. This included copies of the original forms on 
which it had completed the necessary information. Separately Aegons complaints team 
emailed Mrs A to say the forms had been posted back to her, but not that these were copies. 
On 20 June 2023 Mrs A emailed Aegons complaints team to say shed received copies but 
not the original forms. It said it would look into this. 
On 22 June 2023 Aegon chased ceding scheme A, which said it hadnt received anything in 
the post and asked that the documents be emailed to it, which Aegon did. It also emailed 
Mrs A and confirmed it no longer had the original documents shed sent on 15 February 
2023 as these had been destroyed. Ceding scheme A, then emailed both Mrs A and Aegon 
asking her to provide various identity verification documents. On 30 June 2023 Aegon 
emailed Mrs A asking for an update on this. On 3 July 2023 Mrs A replied wanting to know 
how Aegon knew about this. It advised it had been copied in on the email. She then 
complained about when Aegon had contacted ceding scheme B, saying it had caused five 
months of delay. 
Aegon said it had written to both ceding schemes on 5 June 2023. It chased the other ceding 
arrangement on 12 July 2023, which said it was waiting for information from Mrs A. On 18 
July 2023 ceding scheme A told Aegon Mrs A had told it to put the transfer on hold. Mrs A 
said this was because shed lost faith in Aegon. It said it would leave the case open for four 
weeks and then close it if it didnt hear from her. On 26 July 2023 Aegon advised Mrs A that 
ceding scheme B was still waiting for information from her. Aegon says it then received an 
email on 29 August 2023 from ceding scheme A, saying it would be sending £18,105.15 by 
BACS. Aegon confirmed this to Mrs A on 1 September 2023 and sent her updated plan 
documents. Aegon didnt hear further from ceding scheme B or Mrs A about this transfer. 
In the meantime, Mrs A had referred her complaint to our service. She said given the 
problems shed decided to take benefits from ceding scheme B and invest in an ISA rather 
than transfer to Aegon. She said shed suffered losses as the value of her plans had fallen 
during the delays. That Aegon had failed to respond to her request correctly, misinformed 
her about procedures and wasted her time in needing to chase things up and raise 
complaints about their abject failures all along the line.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said it wasnt unusual for pension transfers to take some time to complete 
and having considered the timeline of events he didnt think Aegon had caused 
unreasonable delays in the process. He said Aegon had made an error in February 2023 by 
misunderstanding Mrs As request. But it was then Mrs A who was unable to deal with things 
due to her being in hospital, so the transfer couldnt have been progressed until mid-May 
2023 anyway. He said after that Aegon had dealt with the transfer in a timely manner. 
Our investigator said there was confusion over the return of the original forms to Mrs A, but 
these werent actually required, which Aegon had confirmed on 24 May 2023. He said as it 
hadnt caused delays after May 2023 and was waiting for the ceding schemes to make 
payment after 5 June 2023 it wasnt responsible for any potential loss. He said he thought 
Aegon had already offered fair compensation of £300, which was in line with what he would 
have awarded in the circumstances. He said it was ready to pay this once Mrs A provided 
her bank details.   Mrs A didnt agree. She said it was an overstep to assume her ill-health had prevented her 
from being able to send off the forms if Aegon had returned them to her in February 2023 as 
requested. She said it shouldnt take from mid-February to September to make a transfer 
and that Aegon made it almost impossible to speak to someone who would take 
responsibility. But she said if £300 was all our service would tell Aegon to pay her then shed 
accept payment by cheque. 
Our investigator contacted Aegon about the payment to Mrs A. It apologised and said 
contrary to what it had told the investigator it had already paid Mrs A £400 in compensation 
having first offered her £300 which shed rejected as inadequate. Our investigator confirmed 
this to Mrs A, who said the whole matter of Aegons ineptitude and delays was a huge 
disappointment
As Mrs A doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Whilst Ive set out quite a detailed background to what happened above, I havent included 
every aspect, or all the points made by both Mrs A and Aegon. But I have considered them 
and taken account of everything in coming to my decision. Aegon accepts it made errors and 
if it had better explained its processes at outset most of the confusion here could have been 
avoided. But I do think it has already paid fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that has been caused to Mrs A by those errors. 
Aegon wasnt providing Mrs A with advice and has explained it doesnt normally deal directly 
with customers but rather financial advisers. But it does have a process to facilitate 
execution only instructions for customers not using an adviser. I think that in part, explains 
without excusing, the initial errors it did make here. 
It is clear from the timeline that there are really two parts to this transfer, events before mid-
May 2023 and those after. After mid-May I dont think Aegon caused any unreasonable 
delays. For much of this time it was awaiting payment of the transfers and was chasing up 
both Mrs A and the ceding schemes as Id expect it to do. It was also made clear by 24 May 
2023 that the original forms Mrs A had sent to Aegon in February 2023, werent required to 
complete the transfers. 
And unfortunately, I think the multiple queries made in close succession with different 
departments about their whereabouts just added to the confusion. But I dont think the issue 
of where the original documents were caused any delay in the process. And in the end 
ceding scheme A was content to accept the documents by email and was able to process 
the transfer once its own requirements from Mrs A had been met.
But in the period before May 2023, Aegon clearly did cause a delay by misunderstanding 
what Mrs A was trying to achieve. It should have identified this when she first called. Had it, 
the execution only process to instigate the transfer could have started then. This would have 
given Aegon the information it needed to contact the ceding schemes on Mrs As behalf. And 
it is important to note that this is the normal industry basis on which pension transfers are 
made. With the receiving scheme contacting the ceding scheme to instigate a transfer, 
rather than the customer acting as a conduit. So, not starting the execution only process did cause a delay and Aegon should have further 
realised this when it received Mrs As forms. Instead, it made another error in thinking she 
wanted to transfer her Aegon pension out.
However, Aegon promptly wrote to Mrs A providing detailed information and documentation 
about transferring out to another provider rather than returning her forms. And it is clear that 
Mrs A was aware there was a problem when she received the letter of 22 February 2023. 
So, at an early stage. But said in her complaint made in May 2023 that due to health 
concerns she hadnt:
felt up to contacting Aegon to ask where the transfer documents  were  having 
received the nonsensical letter of the 22nd February.   
Its unfortunate that Mrs A was been in poor health but having considered this carefully I 
dont think its reasonable to blame Aegon for the entire delay. There are several reasons 
why I think this. Ultimately it wasnt aware it had made an error, but Mrs A was aware there 
was problem, and it didnt know that Mrs A was unwell.
Mrs A has said that she wasnt able to deal with the transfer herself but told our investigator 
that her husband could have posted the forms to the ceding schemes had Aegon returned 
them as shed requested. Im sure her husband could have done this but that alone wouldnt 
have got the transfers completed. Because it wasnt the correct process for Aegon. And it 
would have required further documents to be completed by Mrs A. And both ceding schemes 
also had further requirements that needed to be dealt with. And the usual transfer process 
across the pensions industry is that the receiving arrangement  Aegon - instigates the 
transfer request. 
This is what did happen after Mrs A contacted it in May 2023, with Aegon immediately 
initiating the correct process. But that involved issuing forms for her to sign and return that 
could take up to 10 working days to issue. So, if this process had been started on 15 
February it might have been 28 February or 1 March 2023 before Mrs A received those 
documents, possibly too late for her to deal with until sometime later. 
Its possible that Mrs As husband might have been able to assist with dealing with all these 
additional requirements had things been dealt with properly on 15 February 2023. But on the 
same basis Mr A might have been able to liaise with Aegon on Mrs As behalf (with her 
authority) once the letter of the 22 February 2023 made it clear there was a problem (the 
letter included a telephone number in the event of queries) before Mrs A felt well enough to 
do so herself in May 2023. 
So, I dont think it is reasonable to say Aegon was responsible for the whole delay and any 
potential financial consequence of that first period. Realistically it may have caused a week 
or sos additional delay after Mrs A first contacted it. And she was still keen to proceed with 
the transfer in May 2023, suggesting that she wasnt concerned about falling values at that 
point. And from then Aegon dealt with matters promptly and chased up the ceding schemes 
and Mrs A over outstanding matters as Id expect it to. 
So, taking everything together I think the payment Aegon has already made of £400 for the 
delays, error, and inconvenience it did cause is fair under the circumstances of the 
complaint, and it neednt do anything further. 
Your text here
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman