DRN-3432732
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the amount he was offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in 
settlement of his claim after his car was declared a total loss.
What happened
Mr T had a car accident in February 2021 and his car was declared a total loss. He was 
offered the value of £13,950 (less the £600 excess) for his car based on the insurers 
valuation guides. Mr T had purchased his car seven months earlier for £17,995 (and has 
provided the receipt for this) and is not happy with the price offered. He said the guide 
values are not accurate for his vehicle and that the valuation increased significantly when he 
added details about his cars specifications into the valuation tools. 
Mr T says that UKI hasnt considered that the model was only made between 2007-2009 and 
commands a premium as there are only relatively few available left on the road. The car has 
modifications such as different door panels, trim, nappa leather, imprint on headrests and 
updated driver infotainment included in the model of car from 2007-2009. The car also had 
upgraded options including alloys, TV function, extended merino leather, comfort access, 
soft close doors, active seats and rear blinds which were selected from new. Mr T said that 
he has also bought new headlights and taillights and says the car has had around £9,000 
worth of work completed on it. Mr T has since confirmed that he didnt add any further 
modifications to the car himself and that the references above were all optional extras 
selected by the owner from new in 2007.
Mr T has provided evidence from classified adverts for what he says are similar vehicles 
ranging in price between £16,000 and £19,995 and says that more emphasis should be put 
on these. He says that he did not declare the modifications as he bought the car like this and 
they are factory-fitted optional extras rather than modifications. He therefore assumed that 
these would be included in the cover. Mr T says the engineer was dismissive of their value 
due to the age of the car but that he found they made a difference when he ran them through 
the valuation guide.
UKI says that it uses multiple motor vehicle industry recognised valuation guides to provide a 
starting base value and then adjusts this for mileage, condition and making allowances for 
non-standard options. Its engineers valuations were CAP at £13,950 and Glasss at £11,300 
(no adjustment for options) and it has provided evidence of these. UKI says it was not made 
aware of the modifications. It didnt add any more for the options as the vehicle had ten 
previous owners. UKI says that as Mr T hadnt purchased the options they would have been 
included in the selling price and market value. It says that it has carried out a review of the 
valuation given to Mr Ts vehicle and remains satisfied that the value is a fair and accurate 
reflection of the current market value as agreed by its engineers. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think UKI needed to take any action. 
She found that Mr T hadnt declared any modifications when he took the policy out as 
required by the policy terms. So she didnt think that UKI should increase the valuation 
based on modifications as they were not declared and didnt think UKI had done anything 
wrong. Our investigator considered the selling prices and adverts provided by Mr T but found 
that these were not reliable in this situation as the mileage, age and specifications varied. 
She concluded that she agreed with the pre-accident valuation provided by UKI.
Mr T disagreed with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He maintains that 
the valuation guides for his vehicle are incorrect and says that this has caused him financial 
detriment. The age, mileage and the fact it is an LCI model warrants a much higher price 
than the valuation guides suggest even before the optional extras have been taken into 
account. Mr T says that he has not been treated fairly and has not been indemnified after his 
loss as there has not been a fair valuation of his car.
I set out in my provisional decision dated 17 March 2022 (reproduced below) why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint as UKI had not treated Mr T fairly. I also set out what it 
should do to put things right, by paying Mr T an additional £1,881 in respect of his claim 
along with interest. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence 
by 14 April 2022.
UKI reviewed the provisional decision and agreed with the outcome. Mr T agreed with the 
provisional decision but did not agree with the 8% interest payment which he calculated to 
amount to approximately £150. He said that he did not believe this was fair and reasonable 
to apologise for the stress and inconvenience, considering the amount of times he had had 
to respond to this service and the time taken to reach this conclusion. He thinks £250 would 
be more acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I disagree with the 
investigator and think that the valuation of Mr Ts vehicle should be increased for the 
reasons Ive explained below.
Mr Ts policy sets out that UKI will not pay more than the market value of the car in 
the event of damage. Market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time 
of the accident or loss. 
This service doesnt value vehicles, instead we check that an insurers valuation is 
fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. In most 
cases we use the trade guides as theyre based on nationwide research of likely 
selling prices and use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely 
selling prices would have been. I can see that this is what UKI has based its 
valuation on, but in this particular case Im not persuaded that this has provided a fair 
and reasonable valuation.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by UKI which shows the valuations it considered 
as being £13,950 from the first guide and  £11,300 from the second for Mr Ts car 
with a mileage of 78,000 as agreed between the parties. I am satisfied that the guide 
values considered by UKI were taken at the time and I can see UKI has taken the 
higher of these valuations when offering the settlement figure to Mr T. 
However, Mr T has said that his main issue is that the valuation guides are incorrect, 
which is based to a large extent on the fact that his model of car has a number of specifications and options as set out above. He has confirmed that any modifications 
to the car were all optional extras selected by the owner from new in 2007. He said 
the insurer should think about whether the amount he recently paid for the car 
indicates that the guides are wrong and that it should review other evidence, such as 
adverts, to get a fair valuation. Mr T has also provided adverts; there is a large range 
in the figures provided but these are all higher that the valuation guides.
It appears to me that the valuations considered by UKI have not taken into account 
the optional extras on Mr Ts vehicle and only relate to a basic model. As Mr T 
provided information about the specifications of his vehicle and had paid a higher 
amount, I think UKI should have done more to consider the valuation of his car.
To consider whether UKI reached a fair and reasonable valuation our investigator 
asked for a bespoke valuation from the first guide and also used a third valuation 
guide to produce a valuation for Mr Ts car. The bespoke valuation from the first 
guide was £14,845 as of February 2021 and the third guide gave a valuation of 
£16,817. 
The valuations considered by UKI only took into account the basic model and I think 
it should have done more to take into account the information provided by Mr T about 
the higher specifications of his vehicle. I consider that the two valuations obtained by 
our investigator better reflect the value of Mr Ts vehicle and are closer to the prices 
on the adverts provided by Mr T from the time of this claim. It is therefore my 
provisional view that it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to take the average of 
these two valuations, which is £15,831. 
I can see that UKI has already paid Mr T £13,950 in respect of his claim. It should 
therefore pay him the additional £1,881 along with 8% simple interest to compensate 
Mr T for not having the money. UKI should calculate this from the date it paid Mr T 
the £13,950 until the date it makes payment.
Following this provisional decision, UKI made no further submissions. Mr T agreed with the 
provisional decision but did not agree with the 8% interest payment which he calculated to 
amount to approximately £150. He said that he did not believe this was fair and reasonable 
to apologise for the stress and inconvenience, considering the amount of times he had had 
to respond to this service and the time taken to reach this conclusion. He thinks £250 would 
be more acceptable.
I have considered what Mr T has said and this seems to relate to two different issues: firstly, 
interest and, secondly, compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
In relation to the 8% interest, this reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment 
debts and I havent seen any evidence to suggest this rate would be inappropriate in the 
circumstances of this case. 
In relation to a payment for distress and inconvenience, this service has the power to make 
such an award on top of asking a business to compensate for direct financial loss if 
appropriate to do so. Mr T has complained about the time taken since the complaint was 
brought to this service and the fact that he has had to respond to information requests from 
this service. So I cant say that this is something which has directly been caused by UKI. 
Making a complaint will inevitably involve some time and inconvenience. I have considered 
any distress or inconvenience caused as a result of UKI not paying Mr T the amount it 
should have done in respect of his claim and I dont find that an award for distress and 
inconvenience is warranted in the circumstances of this case.Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require UKI to:
Pay Mr T an additional £1,881 in settlement of his claim.
Pay Mr T 8% simple interest in respect of the above, calculated from the date it paid 
Mr T the £13,950 to the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above I uphold this complaint and 
require U K Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman