DRN-4232893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly when it allowed 
them to increase their overdraft limit from £1,000 to £2,500. They want Lloyds to remove the 
default applied to their credit files.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held an account with Lloyds with an agreed overdraft limit of £1,000. In 
September 2019 Lloyds approved a limit increase to £2,500.  
Mr and Mrs W complained to Lloyds that the increase in their overdraft limit was 
irresponsible. Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint regarding the overdraft limit increase 
from £1,000 to £2,500 in September 2019.
To put things right Lloyds:
Refunded all overdraft fees and charges applied since 14 September 2019 
amounting to £1,834.45 (this was applied to the outstanding overdraft debt that had 
been sold to a third party but wasnt enough to pay the debt off). 
Lloyds backdated the default on Mr and Mrs Ws credit file to September 2019. 
Lloyds compensated Mr and Mrs W £80 for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this and brought their complaint to this service. They want 
the default removed as they say it only occurred as a result of irresponsible lending. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and thought that what Lloyds 
had already done to settle the complaint was in line with what wed recommend and didnt 
think Lloyds should do anything more.  
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and have now asked that their complaint be progressed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case, after reviewing all the information on the account held by Mr and Mrs W and 
their overdraft usage, I agree that Lloyds shouldnt have increased their overdraft limit as the 
increase was too large (more than double of the limit previously) and leading up to the 
increase they failed to maintain a credit balance for a reasonable period of time. So it 
shouldve been clear that the overdraft limit increase from £1,000 to £2,500 wasnt affordable 
for Mr and Mrs W. 
Lloyds has already done what Id expect it to do to put things right based on this finding  as 
outlined above. Mr and Mrs W were refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused 
by the overdraft facility. And no interest is due as the refund didnt take the account into 
credit. Furthermore, I can see from Mr and Mrs Ws credit report that Lloyds has backdated 
the default on the account to the point when the overdraft limit was increased and deemed 
irresponsible. 
Mr and Mrs W want the default removed from their credit files as they say the account was 
only defaulted as a result of the irresponsible lending. But I havent seen enough to show me 
that Mr and Mrs W wouldve been able to afford to pay back the £1,000 overdraft they had 
before the increase within a reasonable period of time and avoided a default. Indeed, Mr and 
Mrs Ws statements show that within a couple of months of the increase in limit that they had 
hit the top of this limit  they werent paying off their overdraft they were borrowing further. 
So I cant say its likely their account wouldnt have defaulted anyway.
Credit reporting provides valuable information about how customers have conducted their 
financial affairs and without this information lenders are unable to make informed lending 
decisions. And based on what Ive seen having the default removed from Mr and Mrs Ws 
credit file wouldnt be giving an accurate reflection of how they managed their financial 
affairs. 
So it follows I dont agree that the default should be removed and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
do anything more.   
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
put things right for Mr and Mrs W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman