DRN-3224867
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled 
its application for a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan.
One of Js directors, Mr J, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
Mr J approached HSBC in late November 2020 with a view to obtaining a loan for J under 
the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
Js application was submitted on 30 November. HSBC reviewed the request and asked Mr J 
for some further information to consider things before making a final decision. HSBC 
declined the application and advised Mr J of this on 8 January 2021.
Mr J says he asked HSBC to withdraw the application after growing frustrated at the banks 
requests for information during the process. So hes unhappy that the bank proceeded to 
assess it  and, in particular, that it then registered information about the application with 
credit reference agencies which will affect Js credit file.
HSBC says it has no record of Mr J asking to withdraw the application and that it completed 
its process accordingly. It has also said that it doesnt register adverse credit information 
about limited companies and although it wouldve carried out a credit check as part of the 
application that would show on a credit file, this wouldnt have an adverse impact.
One of our investigators reviewed Js complaint but, after reviewing the calls and emails 
between Mr J and HSBC as well as the banks internal records, he said hed not found that J 
had asked HSBC to withdraw the application. He didnt think any adverse information had 
actually been recorded in any event, with only a credit check having been logged  which 
wouldnt have adversely affected J.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view. He says that during the process, hed asked HSBC 
to clarify the information it needed to move forward  so that he could then decide whether to 
proceed or withdraw. He says that HSBC didnt respond to this and instead went ahead and 
assessed the application. 
Mr J also says that he is not solely concerned about the companys credit score alone, 
highlighting that it is also common for lenders to ask if an applicant has been declined for 
finance elsewhere  so he would have to disclose HSBCs decision, which would impact Js 
future credit applications. So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen that J asked HSBC to withdraw the loan application prior to 
the banks decision to decline it. 
The email exchanges between Mr J and HSBC show that the application was progressing as 
normal following its submission in late November 2020. Mr J was chasing progress on the 
application through December, with no mention of a desire to withdraw it.
On 21 December, HSBC asked Mr J for some further information before it could make a 
decision (as to whether he intended to take the same level of drawings from the company in 
the year ahead). Mr J has suggested, in his reply to our investigators assessment, that he 
was awaiting a further steer from the bank as to what it needed  which never came. He 
says he didnt respond to the banks request and that it then unfairly proceeded to assess 
the application against his wishes. But the banks records show that it spoke to Mr J and 
obtained the further information it needed from him (who confirmed that his drawings from 
the company would be reduced)  so it went on to assess the application on 22 December.
Its difficult for me to be certain about what happened, given that Mr Js comments contradict 
the banks records  and as there is no recording of the call that mustve taken place on or 
around 21 December. But from what Ive seen, I think its most likely that the bank did obtain 
the information it needed from Mr J  as the only other alternative is that it was simply 
manufactured, for which I can see no reason. Ive also listened to the call between Mr J and 
HSBC on 8 January 2021, when he was advised of the banks decision. While unhappy with 
the outcome and broader process, Mr J made no mention of an earlier request to withdraw 
the application or that hed been waiting to hear back from the bank in order to provide it with 
the requisite information to proceed. 
So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in progressing Js application through to a 
decision. Ive only seen that Mr J asked HSBC to withdraw it after he received the banks 
decision. It was then too late to make any changes, either to the application or any related 
credit information that had been reported. It follows that there is no basis on which I can 
direct HSBC to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman