DRN-4330838
The complaint
Mr B and Miss L complain that Paymentshield Ltd gave incorrect advice in a call about their 
legal expenses insurance cover.
What happened
Mr B and Miss L have a Paymentshield home insurance policy. Mr B wanted to know if the 
policy included legal expenses cover so he called Paymentshield to ask about this. He was 
told the policy included an add-on for legal expenses insurance, which provided cover for 
certain types of legal claims. He was transferred through to the provider of the legal 
expenses cover.
Mr B made a claim on the legal expenses insurance but was later told his claim wouldnt be 
covered because there was an exclusion in the policy terms which applied to the type of 
claim he wished to pursue. He complained that he had been misled by Paymentshield telling 
him he would be covered.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the call handler gave 
general information about what cover the policy provided and didnt say Mr B was covered 
for his specific claim.
Mr B disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says:
the advice he was given was misleading;
the policy terms say whats covered and he questions why the call handler asked for 
details of his claim and gave incorrect information;
the reason he gave details of his claim was to ensure there was no doubt he would 
be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr B and Miss L have a Paymentshield home insurance policy, Paymentshield 
doesnt actually provide the insurance. The legal expenses cover is an add-on to their home 
insurance and the insurer that provides the legal cover is a different business. So 
Paymentshield isnt responsible for dealing with legal expenses claims. But if one of its 
customers asks for information about their policy Id still expect Paymentshield to provide 
accurate information to them.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Bs call with Paymentshield. He said he was calling to 
check if the policy included legal cover and the call handler confirmed that it did.
Mr B then asked if it was cover for any legal issue. The call handler explained the types of 
things the policy covered, which included for example personal injury and unfair dismissal 
claims. She asked him if he needed it for anything in particular and Mr B explained he had 
an issue with a car dealer about his car.
The call handler confirmed he had legal expenses cover for legal costs up to £100,000 for a 
legal claim and said she could pass him through to the legal team to discuss it. She 
explained it was a different firm that provided the legal expenses cover and then transferred 
the call through to them. Before doing so, she told Mr B they could have a chat with him to 
see if he could potentially be covered or if not, they could give legal advice anyway for free.
The call handler may have asked for some information about the nature of his dispute to see 
if it was the type of thing that, in general, the policy might cover. Having listened to the call 
its clear the call handler didnt at any point say Mr B would be covered. She said the legal 
expenses provider would discuss that with him and see if he could potentially be covered. 
The information she gave wasnt inaccurate nor did she say anything to indicate Mr B would  
be covered. Indeed she specifically said the legal expenses provider would need to discuss 
it with him and, if he wasnt covered, they could nevertheless give him some legal advice. Im 
satisfied it was made clear to Mr B he would need to speak to the legal expenses provider to 
find out whether his claim would be covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman