DRN-4285261
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the service she received from Vitality Health Limited (Vitality).
What happened
Mrs L has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Vitality. 
She is unhappy that Vitality didnt pay for medication, didnt arrange a referral to a pain 
specialist and didnt call back when promised. 
Mrs L complained to Vitality and it agreed to pay the medication costs of £15 plus it offered 
£30 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It later increased its offer to £50 
compensation.
Unhappy, Mrs L referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found Vitalitys offer of £50 compensation plus 
agreement to pay for the medication was reasonable. 
Mrs L disagreed and sad the compensation wasnt enough. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Vitalitys offer of £50 compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Mrs L had an operation after which she felt significant pain. She contacted Vitality 
and asked for further assistance to see a pain specialist. She also asked Vitality to 
pay £15 for medication she had been prescribed after her operation.
Vitality authorised further treatment, although it had initially made a mistake about the 
consultant, but the referral was confirmed before Mrs Ls appointment. 
Mrs L called Vitality numerous times and she didnt always receive a call back when 
promised. 
Vitality agreed it hadnt offered Mrs L the best service, it agreed to pay the 
medication charges on production of evidence of payment and also offered Mrs L 
£30 compensation for failed call backs and distress and inconvenience which it later 
increased to £50. 
I think Vitalitys offer to resolve the complaint is reasonable as ultimately it agreed to 
pay her medication and authorised the treatment she had requested. In addition, it 
offered £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience for not always returning her 
calls but I have seen that Mrs L was able to speak to someone when she called so I 
dont think this had a long lasting or significant impact. 
Mrs L was in pain and distressed when she called Vitality and I appreciate she 
wanted assistance. But Vitality cant be held responsible for the effects of any 
treatment or operation Mrs L had which caused her pain. So I cant fairly ask Vitality 
to compensate her for the way she felt as a result of her operation or treatment.
Our investigator sent a copy of the invoice for the medication to Vitality. So it now has 
what it needs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think the £50 compensation already offered by Vitality is fair 
as well as the offer to pay £15 for her medication, on receipt of the invoice. 
Vitality Health Limited should now pay Mrs L £50 compensation and £15 for the medication, 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman