DRN-2185512
The complaint
Mr V complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr V took out a total of four loans with Lending Stream between March and May 2019.
Details of his loans were as follows:
Loan Date borrowed Date repaid Amount
1 20.03.19 10.05.19 £250
2 10.05.19 - £400
3 12.05.19 12.05.19 £50
4 14.05.19 - £300
All the loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. Mr V repaid the first loan after 
less than two months, but he took out another, larger loan straight away. Within four days 
of taking loan 2, Mr V took out and immediately repaid a smaller loan, then took out the 
fourth and final loan. When he brought his complaint to us, balances remained outstanding 
on loans 2 and 4.
Mr V believes Lending Stream was irresponsible to lend to him. He says he was in 
financial difficulty, and he doesnt think Lending Stream should have allowed him to borrow 
repeatedly, or to have two loans at once.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he thought 
the checks that Lending Stream carried out before lending to Mr V were proportionate. He 
didnt think they revealed anything which should have prompted Lending Stream to carry 
out further checks. And he didnt think Mr Vs pattern of borrowing should, itself, have 
alerted Lending Stream to the possibility that Mr V was experiencing financial difficulty.
Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr V 
and to Lending Stream on 6 August 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure that Mr V could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a 
consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required 
to establish whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow 
that this was the case. This was because the relevant regulations define sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties, and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it followed that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Vs complaint.
Lending Stream had told us about the checks it carried out before it lent to Mr V. It 
asked him is income and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before 
agreeing the loans.
I was satisfied that the checks Lending Stream carried out before making the first loan 
were proportionate. There was nothing in the results of its credit search which 
I thought should have prompted it to carry out more detailed checks. Lending Stream 
was entitled to rely on the information that Mr V provided in the absence of anything to 
suggest that it might be unreliable. And on the basis of the information he provided 
about his regular income and expenditure, it would have looked to Lending Stream as 
if hed be able to afford the loan repayments relatively comfortably. So I didnt think 
Lending Stream was wrong to make the first loan.But I didnt think the checks Lending Stream carried out before making the remaining 
loans went far enough. Less than two months passed between Mr V applying for 
loan 1 and applying for loan 2, but the figures Mr V gave for his monthly income and 
expenditure were markedly different. The monthly income he declared was around 
66% higher when he applied for loan 2 than it had been less than two months before. 
And at the same time, his declared monthly expenditure had dropped by nearly 30%. 
Whats more, Mr Vs declared income increased again when he applied for loans 3 
and 4.
Of course, it wasnt impossible that Mr V could have changed job, or been promoted in 
the time between applying for loan 1 and loan 2. But I thought such a significant 
change in Mr Vs declared income and expenditure figures in such a short space of 
time ought to have prompted Lending Stream to verify the information independently.
Id noted that Lending Stream told us it carried out income verification checks before 
agreeing to lend to Mr V. Although wed asked for details of those checks and what 
they showed, Lending Stream hadnt provided them, so I couldnt see what they 
showed.
It was clear from Mr Vs bank statements from around the time that he was borrowing 
from Lending Stream that he over-stated his monthly income very considerably. If 
Lending Streams income verification checks supported the figures that Mr V provided, 
I thought it would have been reasonable for it to rely on those figures. But if they 
showed that it was likely that Mr V had exaggerated his income, I didnt think it would 
have been reasonable or proportionate for Lending Stream simply to rely on the 
information Mr V provided about his financial situation. And in those circumstances, 
I thought Lending Stream should have independently verified the information, perhaps 
by asking Mr V for documentary evidence, such as payslips or copies of Mr Vs bank 
statements.
But although it was possible that Lending Stream should have carried out more 
thorough checks before lending to Mr V, that in itself didnt mean that his complaint 
should be upheld. Id also need to be persuaded that better checks would have shown 
Lending Stream that it was likely that Mr V would struggle to repay the loans 
sustainably.
Id looked at Mr Vs bank statements, to see what it was likely that more thorough 
checks would have revealed to Lending Stream. And I wasnt convinced that Lending 
Stream should have concluded that the borrowing was likely to be unsustainable for 
Mr V. Id taken account of the fact that loan 2 was still running when Mr V took out 
loan 4. So he had to make repayments on both loans. But even taking into account the 
fact that Mr Vs income was much lower than hed stated on his applications for 
loans 2 to 4, I thought it would have looked to Lending Stream as if he could meet the 
repayments on his loans without over- stretching himself financially.
I could see from Mr Vs bank statements that he was making regular repayments to a 
debt collection company. And a large payment to a utility company had been returned 
unpaid when he applied for loan 2. But looking at the position overall, I didnt think that 
this, in itself, gave a clear enough indication that Mr V was having on-going problems 
managing his money that Lending Stream ought to have refused to lend to him.
There was no indication from Mr Vs bank statements that he was borrowing from 
multiple short-term lenders at the time. And Id borne in mind that less than two 
months passed between Mr V applying for his fist loan and his last loan with Lending 
Stream. That wasnt long enough for me to think that Lending Stream ought to have 
concluded that Mr V had become dependent on short-term borrowing.So I was sorry to disappoint Mr V. I didnt doubt what hes told us about the financial 
problems he was having. But even though I accepted that Lending Stream may not 
have carried out sufficient checks before lending, I didnt think that the results of better 
checks should have indicated that it shouldnt lend to Mr V. So I couldnt fairly require 
it to compensate him.
I reminded Lending Stream of its responsibility to treat Mr V positively and 
sympathetically in any discussions about repayment of outstanding balances.
further submissions
Neither Mr V nor Lending Stream have provided any further comments since I issued my 
provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman