DRN-3465786
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr K have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) led them to believe 
they could get home emergency cover for their boiler if they had some work done to it  but 
then declined cover when the work had been done.
What happened
In summer 2021, Mrs B and Mr K bought a policy to provide heating and plumbing cover.  
Aviva sent them a welcome pack and confirmed that they needed to do a boiler health 
check within 90 days of the start of the policy to make sure they could look after the boiler.
Mrs B and Mr K arranged the boiler health check.  They say the engineer who came to do 
this told them the boiler needed a power flush.  Mrs B and Mr K arranged for an independent 
engineer to come and do this.
The engineer did the power flush but told Mrs B and Mr K they didnt think it was necessary.  
The work cost £375.
Once this had been done, Mrs B and Mr K contacted Aviva and asked them to confirm they 
had boiler cover.  But Aviva declined cover on the basis the boiler was in poor condition.  
Mrs B and Mr K raised a complaint about the misleading communications from the engineer 
and that theyd unnecessarily paid £375 for the power flush.
Aviva investigated but didnt uphold the complaint.  They said cover was declined because of 
the poor condition of the boiler.  And they said the engineer can advise a power flush after 
looking at the quality of the water in the system.
Mrs B and Mr K werent satisfied with Avivas response and brought their complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered it and concluded Aviva didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve the complaint.  
He noted the terms of policy set out that the boiler health check had to be completed within 
90 days of the start of the policy.  But that, if it failed, Aviva had either to confirm what 
needed to be done to fix it, remove the boiler from the policy and adjust the premiums or 
cancel the agreement (if it was just for boiler cover).  He noted that Aviva had removed the 
boiler and adjusted the premiums, in line with the terms.
Mrs B and Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Bs and Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mrs B and Mr K wanted the comfort of knowing they had insurance for their 
boiler in the event of a breakdown.  But, as our investigator explained, insurers dont have to 
provide cover  they can set out conditions for providing it.  In this case, the boiler health 
check had to be done.  I can see Mrs B and Mr K arranged for this a few days after the 
policy started.
And Ive seen that Aviva wrote to Mr K giving some general reasons why the boiler failed the 
check.  Aviva said it may have been:
The gas boiler and/or gas central heating doesnt meet our eligibility criteria
Were unable to service or source parts for your boiler
The condition of the gas boiler and/or gas central heating doesnt meet our required 
standard
The need to have a power flush isnt mentioned.  
But the letter is clear that the boilers no longer covered.  And theres no suggestion that 
having any work done to it will change that.  The only circumstance in which its suggested 
Aviva may provide cover is if Mrs B and Mr K have a new boiler installed.
Ive studied the timeline of events.  Im satisfied this letter was sent to Mrs B and Mr K about 
a month before they had the power flush done.  So they would have known the information 
in the letter and what the engineer had told them was inconsistent before getting the work 
done.  But Ive seen no evidence they checked the position with Aviva before going ahead 
with the power flush.
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr K were told by the engineer a power flush was needed.  But Ive 
not seen anything to show this was in order to get the boiler covered, as opposed to the 
engineer simply providing Mrs B and Mr K with advice.
So I dont think its reasonable to say Aviva indicated to Mrs B and Mr K theyd provide cover 
if they had a power flush done.   And for that reason, I dont think Aviva need to do any more 
to resolve their complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Bs and Mr Ks complaint about Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman