DRN-2445963
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly added an exclusion to his home 
insurance policy and refused to pay his subsidence claim. 
What happened
The parties are aware of the detail surrounding this complaint, so I wont set it out in full here 
again. But in summary, Mr S took out a home insurance policy with Covea through a broker 
in 2018. Mr S made a claim under the policy for subsidence damage to his insured property 
thought to be caused by nearby vegetation and soil shrinkage.
Covea said that during the application process, when asked, Mr S failed to disclose that the 
property had previously suffered from subsidence. And it was satisfied he was aware of this 
prior to policy inception, as the pre-purchase documentation hed provided it with mentioned 
this issue. It considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, so it added a 
subsidence exclusion onto the policy retrospectively and declined the claim.
Mr S disagreed, saying the issue in question related to defects which only affected the porch 
of the property. And that these defects occurred over ten years prior to his purchase of it. He 
said the damage was eventually deemed to be as the result of defective design and 
construction  so a different cause to his claim  and was resolved by the previous owner. 
Mr S also said the pre-purchase report hadnt mentioned subsidence. So he said Covea 
should pay the claim.
Our investigator considered the matter. She found that the pre-purchase documentation did 
in fact mention subsidence. And she was satisfied Mr S was in receipt of this information 
prior to taking out the policy with Covea, so should reasonably have known to disclose it 
when asked but failed to do so. So she thought the action Covea had taken was fair. Mr S 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because 
he didnt tell it the insured property previously suffered from subsidence. So Ive looked at 
the questions Mr S was asked when applying for the policy. The question Covea says Mr S 
answered incorrectly reads  Has the property ever suffered subsidence, heave or landslip 
damage? 
Its not in dispute that Mr S answered no to this question. He initially said that when he 
bought the property in 2007 there was documentation that referred to an issue relating to the 
porch in the early 1990s. But he said the documentation also confirmed these issues had 
been rectified prior to him buying the property. And that the word subsidence wasnt used in 
relation to this issue. So he answered the question Covea asked him to the best of his 
knowledge.
But from what Ive seen, the pre-purchase pack does mention the word subsidence in 
relation to this issue. It includes a note from the previous owners of Mr Ss property which 
says  In 1990 we submitted an insurance claim for subsidence in the porch area of this 
house and monitoring commenced in December 1990 and continued until early 1995 when 
underpinning was carried out. 
Theres also a letter from 1994 titled subsidence claim which seems to be from loss 
adjusters acting at that time and confirms the previous owners insurers were happy for 
stabilisation works to proceed on the porch only. Im satisfied these documents evidence the 
property had most likely suffered from subsidence in the past, so the answer Mr S gave was 
incorrect. 
But deciding whether or not Mr S took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
needs to be determined in light of all the relevant circumstances. CIDRA lists examples of 
things that may need to be taken into account when doing this, including how clear and 
specific the insurers questions were.
Im satisfied the question Covea asked was clear. But in response to the investigators view, 
Mr S says he answered no because the damage was to the porch only, whereas his 
current claim is for subsidence occurring elsewhere in his property. 
Mr S went on to say that although the porch damage was logged as a subsidence claim by 
the previous owners insurers, it was actually found to be the result of poor workmanship/ 
defective design that led to insufficient foundations. So he argues this is a different cause to 
subsidence. He also says this damage happened over ten years before he owned the 
property, so he questions how long hes reasonably expected to declare this for.
Mr S had an obligation to answer the question Covea asked of him accurately and to the 
best of his knowledge. And the question he was asked wasnt about where or when 
subsidence occurred, but rather if any subsidence had ever occurred in the property. So 
regardless of the previous subsidence location or how long ago it happened, Im satisfied 
this question makes it clear hed still have to disclose it.Subsidence can be caused by many different things. Examples include (but arent limited to) 
vegetation and soil shrinkage  thought to be the problem in Mr Ss claim, or sometimes 
inadequate foundations as it seems was the case in the previous owners claim. But either 
way, the peril being claimed for is still subsidence. And the pre-purchase documentation Ive 
seen in this case, persuades me that it was subsidence that occurred in the porch of the 
property which required remedial works to stop further movement. 
It follows based on what Ive seen in this case, I think Mr S shouldve reasonably been aware 
that the correct answer to the question he was asked by Covea was yes. So Im satisfied 
he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in this case. 
Covea has provided evidence which shows that had Mr S answered the question correctly it 
wouldve declined to quote, and cover wouldnt have commenced on this policy or at the very 
least it wouldve applied an exclusion for subsidence. This means Im satisfied Mr Ss 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Covea has said Mr Ss misrepresentation was 
careless and I dont disagree. So Ive looked at the actions Covea can take in accordance 
with CIDRA. 
Under CIDRA, if a misrepresentation is careless, and the insurer wouldnt have entered into 
the consumer insurance contract on any terms, it may avoid the contract and refuse all 
claims  but must return the premium paid. If the insurer would still have provided the 
insurance but on different terms (other than terms relating to the premium) the policy is to be 
treated as if it had been provided on those terms if the insurer so requires.
In this case, Covea went with the second remedy detailed above and retrospectively 
amended the terms by adding a subsidence exclusion to the policy with effect from the 
inception date and declined the claim. This is in accordance with CIDRA, so Im satisfied this 
is a fair and reasonable approach in the specific circumstances of this case. 
It follows based on what Ive seen in this case, I think Covea has acted fairly in its handling 
of Mr Ss claim, so I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman