DRN-1337960
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Phoenix Life Limited misled him about the annuity income he was 
due to receive when he reached age 65.
What happened
Mr F decided to take his pension benefits in 2014 when he turned 60 years old and he 
started to receive annuity income from Phoenix Life. Mr F received paperwork from Phoenix 
Life yearly thereafter showing he would be receiving three separate annuity payments for the 
whole of his life, with the third commencing when he reached age 65.
However, when Mr F reached age 65 in May 2019, Phoenix Life wrote to him advising that 
policy ending 002 had been terminated and had been replaced by policy ending 004.
Mr F complained, saying hed been led to believe hed be receiving annuity payments 
totalling over £10,000 per year from May 2019. Instead, he would only be getting around 
£7,000 per year, which left him much worse off.
Phoenix Life accepted that the paperwork issued since Mr F took benefits in 2014 mistakenly 
informed him that policy ending 002 would be payable for the whole of his life. But it said this 
annuity was temporary, payable for five years and was replaced by policy ending 004 when 
he turned 65. It confirmed the payments he was now receiving were correct but accepted he 
had experienced a loss of expectation. So, it offered compensation of £350.
Mr F didnt accept this and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the compensation offered by Phoenix Life was fair. This was 
because he couldnt see that Mr F had made any plans based on the extra money he 
thought hed be getting in 2019. So, he thought £350 fairly compensated Mr F for the 
disappointment he experienced when Phoenix Life corrected its mistake.
Mr F asked for a final decision on the matter, saying £350 wasnt enough for the large 
difference in payments he would be getting going forwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr F, so Ill 
explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr F received misleading information from Phoenix Life about the 
annuity payments he would be receiving for the whole of his life. And Im satisfied from the 
paperwork Ive seen that policy ending 002 was temporary, payable for only five years until 
Mr F reached age 65. Its clear to me that Mr F is receiving the correct sums now based on 
the choices he made in 2014, which was a lump sum of £21,669.11 and an annual pension of £5,296.63 (increasing with RPI each year). So, the sole issue for me to decide is whether 
the compensation offered to Mr F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I dont doubt how disappointing it wouldve been for Mr F to learn hed be receiving around 
£3,000 per year less than he was expecting when he turned 65. But it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Phoenix Life to make up the difference, as Mr F was never entitled to this extra amount.
Both Phoenix Life and our service asked Mr F whether hed made any plans or financial 
commitments based on the extra sum he thought hed be getting in 2019. If he had then it 
would be fair for Phoenix Life to factor this in to any compensation offered. But Mr F hasnt 
made Phoenix Life or us aware of any extra expenses or commitments he made based on 
the figures hed previously been given. So, any award of compensation is purely for Mr Fs 
loss of expectation.
I appreciate that Mr F feels £350 is too low, given the difference in his annual payments. But 
overall, I think £350 is fair compensation for his disappointment. I say this because even 
though Mr F received paperwork to the contrary, when he took his pension benefits in 2014 
he chose a lump sum of £21,669.11 and an annual pension of £5,296.63 (increasing with 
RPI each year). So, I think he couldve anticipated that the subsequent paperwork he 
received may have been inaccurate.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has made Mr F an offer of compensation of £350. I think this offer is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr F £350 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman