DRN-2322745
The complaint
Ms A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) recorded a non-fault claim against her 
motor insurance policy. She wants records of the claim removed. 
What happened
A delivery driver damaged Ms As car with a ladder. Ms A called UKI and it told her to make 
a claim against the drivers public liability insurance. Ms A did this and told UKI that she had 
recovered all her costs. But she then found that UKI had recorded a non-fault claim on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. She thought this would affect her future 
premiums.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
a duty to record accurate information about claims notified to it. He thought the information it 
had recorded was correct.
Ms A replied that she didnt think the claim should be recorded as it didnt involve a motor 
insurance policy. She thought she was being unfairly penalised and trapped into staying with 
UKI as other insurers would quote higher premiums due to the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms A feels frustrated. Her car was damaged through no fault of her 
own. She didnt claim on her own policy, but UKI recorded the claim on the CUE database. 
And now, because shes had two claims within three years, shes found that quotes at 
renewal have increased significantly.
The standard industry practice is that if an insurer is signed up to CUE, which UKI is, then itll 
make a record of any incident its made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. The 
insurer has a duty to make an accurate record. 
Ms A made UKI aware of the incident and damage to her car when she called it for advice. 
And so UKI was obliged to record this on CUE. Ms A didnt make a claim on her policy but 
on the other drivers public liability cover and she recovered her costs. So I think this should 
be recorded on CUE as a non-fault claim. 
The CUE record shows the claim as settled, with no costs paid out and Ms As bonus being 
allowed. And other insurers should be able to interpret this information if reviewing the 
record as a whole. Ms A said that insurers quote by using computerised programmes and so 
wouldnt look into the details of a claim. But I cant hold UKI responsible for other insurers 
systems or the quotes they provide. 
Ms A also said that UKI told her the incident wouldnt be recorded as a claim and it would 
have no effect on her premium at renewal. Ive looked at UKIs file and Ive not seen 
evidence that she was told this. I can see that when Ms A and her partner discussed the 
incident, the call handler noted that if the repairs went ahead and there was no cost to UKI or 
Ms A, then they should call it and the file would be closed. And I think UKI did this.
Ms A thought she was trapped into staying with UKI because of the claim marker. But I dont 
agree. I think its Ms As decision to stay with UKI rather then another insurer. So I cant hold 
UKI responsible for this. 
So I think UKI correctly recorded the claim, as it was obliged to do. I think its record of the 
claim is accurate. And so I dont require it to remove it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman