DRN-3082830
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough to 
protect her when she was the victim of a scam and lost £4,900.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 12 April 2020 Mrs W made a payment of £4,900 from her Virgin Money account to 
purchase a camper van. The vehicle wasnt delivered as arranged and she was unable to 
contact the seller. Mrs W contacted Clydesdale on 21 April 2020, as she realised shed been 
the victim of a scam and asked it to help her recover the funds. She also later wrote on 
10 May 2020 and complained that Clydesdale didnt have sufficient security measures in 
place to prevent her falling victim to the scam. When her initial complaint went unanswered 
Mrs W contacted Clydesdale again. 
Clydesdale considered Mrs Ws complaint, while it was sympathetic that shed been the 
victim of a scam it didnt consider it was responsible for her loss. It confirmed shed 
authorised the payment. It said there was no reason for it to consider the payment to be 
unusual or suspicious, so it had no reason to stop it. It also made best endeavours to 
recover the funds but by the time the loss was identified no funds remained in the account. 
But it accepted it hadnt responded to Mrs Ws initial complaint. It explained her initial letter 
had been lost and so her concerns were not logged until she called it. It apologised for this.
Mrs W remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, as she agreed Clydesdale had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. Mrs W didnt agree.  
As we have been unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this is not the answer 
Mrs W was hoping for and so this will come as a disappointment. Im sorry to hear Mrs W 
has been the victim of a scam and has lost a considerable sum of money as a result. I can 
understand why shed want to do all she can to recover the money she lost. But I need to 
decide whether Clydesdale can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for Mrs Ws loss. 
Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to 
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment 
Services Regulations. 
But the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing the payment instruction was an 
attempt to misappropriate the customers funds.  
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the 
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mrs W when she made a payment of £4,900, and whether it shouldve 
done more than it did before processing the payment. I also need to decide if Clydesdale 
ought to have done more than it has already done to recover the funds after Mrs W reported 
the scam. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mrs Ws bank statements to see whether I think her instruction to pay 
£4,900 to another account, ought fairly and reasonably to have appeared unusual or 
uncharacteristic to Clydesdale at the time  and therefore required it to make contact with 
Mrs W before the transaction was processed. But I dont think it should.  
While I appreciate Mrs W considers the transaction was unusual for her, a balance needs to 
be struck. Banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best 
interests. But at the same time, they cant be involved in every transaction. The transaction 
in dispute didnt drain Mrs Ws account, there was still a reasonable balance following the 
payment. And as it was a one-off payment there was no pattern of suspicious behaviour for 
Clydesdale to identify. I also note that a few months earlier there was a payment for a 
comparable amount which left the account (albeit to another account in Mrs Ws name). Its 
also reasonably common that from time to time most people will instruct payments that are 
larger than their regular monthly outgoings. And here, whilst the payment of £4,900 was 
larger than the majority of other payments leaving Mrs Ws account, Im not persuaded it was 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to say Clydesdale should reasonably have contacted 
Mrs W before following the payment instructions shed given it.
When Mrs W notified Clydesdale shed been the victim of a scam it contacted the receiving 
bank the same day to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, the receiving bank 
confirmed that no funds remained in the account so nothing could be returned to Mrs W. Im 
satisfied Clydesdale made reasonable efforts to recover the funds Mrs W had lost through 
the scam, and I dont think it needed to do anything else. 
I understand Mrs W has complained that Clydesdale hadnt introduced the Confirmation of 
Payee (COP) at the time she made the payment. Shes said that by failing to do so, 
Clydesdale had shown a lack of responsibility to its customers and had failed to protect her 
from fraud. But as our investigator has explained, at the time of the payment was made there 
was no requirement for Clydesdale to have introduced COP. And as such, I cant fairly 
criticise them for not having done so. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Clydesdale responsible for 
Mrs Ws loss in this particular case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman